ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U1	Good fellows, good morning. We will start the 18th working week Thursday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries! Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U2	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good morning. All the events in this world are connected. We're sitting here discussing basic school and upper secondary school law. This debate actually started from the moment the teachers expressed their minds and wanted to get more money. Instead of bringing more money into the system, however, something is now being reorganized, other costs are being cut off, additional fees and accreditation are being abolished, from the head of the class to the janitor and the boiler hunter. The same goes for health care. The workers were on strike, and they wanted more money. However, new price caps for healthcare, which have increased the working time component, are currently being confirmed, but the wage component is not included. This means that it remained the same as the price of health care. The working time component has been increased, but it has been reduced accordingly to something else included in this price, be it to buy scissors and painkillers or to pay the boiler heater. In this regard, we, members of the Centre Party, have an inquiry into Social Minister Taavi Rõivas. We want to know about the working time and pay component of healthcare prices. Why has the collective agreement with health professionals not been complied with and what will happen if the agreement is not complied with? Are healthcare professionals starting to strike again? We want answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U3	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I am handing over the draft Patient Act, which is very voluminous. More than 76 organisations, professional associations and public authorities have given an opinion on this, as well as a number of citizens, because we also had this draft online so that it could be evaluated. The purpose of the draft Patient Act is to lay down the rights and obligations of the patient and the health care provider and to regulate the settlement of disputes arising. The draft also regulates the requirements for the organisation of research and the involvement of patients in scientific research, as well as clinical studies. We consider it very important that the Patient Act is on the table of every person and that it is well read and understood. Despite the possibility that the rights and obligations of patients in regulating relationships arising from the provision of healthcare can be laid down in a number of health laws, in very many countries this area is regulated by a separate law, by the Patient Act, such as Finland, Norway, Denmark, Iceland and elsewhere. The reason for this, as I have already said, is the fact that patient law is well read and understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U5	Thank you. Give me the bill now, please! The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! On behalf of the members of the Centre Party Group, I have an inquiry to report to the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool. This enquiry concerns the language of vocational education and training. We have just adopted the VET Act, which provides, among other things, that from 2020 young people who acquire vocational education on the basis of primary school and at the same time acquire secondary education must do so in Estonian in the same proportion as the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act (60:40). Since we know very well that the transition to Estonian in upper secondary school has not been very successful and has caused many problems, we want to ask the Minister whether these lessons have been taken into account and what are the plans. We are interested in how many students are currently studying vocational and secondary education in Estonian and how much in Russian. We also want to know how much of the overall volume of vocational training is made up of Russian-language curricula. What is the ability of the teaching staff of vocational schools to speak the Estonian language? How many of them are already able to teach their subject in Estonian? How do we plan to increase the proportion of such professionals in the future? What is the concrete plan for the changeover? Should vocational schools, for example, start teaching one subject in Estonian each year? What possibility is there for a vocational school that wants to establish a language of instruction other than Estonian? As you all well know, PGS, for example, envisages it. This mechanism doesn't work in practice, but at least in theory, this possibility is entirely there. These are probably the questions we are waiting for in September for Mr Aaviksoo's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U7	Marianne Mikko, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U8	Good colleagues, no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts and four inquiries. According to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has approved Kaja Kallas as Chairman of the Economic Committee and Urve Palo as Vice-Chairman of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu. Congratulations! The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas and Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Good fellows, we're gonna raid the presence check! 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 21.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the SDE Group, I have the honour to hand over the draft law amending § 25 of the Defence Union Act. The Defence League Act, in force until 1 April of this year, did not restrict membership of special organisations of the Defence League on the basis of nationality, but as of 1 April 2013, the Act provides that only a citizen of Estonia, aged 7 to 18, may be a young member. The aim of the youth organisations of the Defence League is to increase young people's love for their homeland, increase their sense of belonging and love for the Estonian language and mind, and provide young people with activities that develop their mental and physical abilities. Any child and young person living in Estonia could have the right to participate in such activities and teaching. Distinction between young people on the basis of nationality is more a disincentive than an integration of stateless young people. The participation of young people without nationality in special organisations of the Defence League contributes to the learning of the national language. Group membership is a very effective means of increasing loyalty to the state. The practice so far has clearly indicated that the presence of stateless young people in special organisations of the Defence League does not pose a threat. Their right to belong to these organisations shows that the state does not question the loyalty of stateless young people to the state and the goodwill of Estonia. The abolition of a nationality-based restriction from the law shows that the state does not reject stateless young people who are interested in participating in the work of the Defence League. I hope you will be generous in this legislative amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U10	Inara Luigas speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, 15 members of the Riigikogu report an inquiry to the Foreign Minister Urmas Paet. A few days ago, we read in the media that Russia and Latvia have agreed on a simplified border crossing, which means that people living up to 50 kilometres from the border can apply for a visa-free visa-free stay in another country. However, this agreement entered into force on 6 June 2013, it was already signed on 20 December 2010. The right to conclude such an agreement is conferred by Regulation (EC) No 1931/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council. It lays down rules for Member States to conclude a simplified border crossing agreement with the Russian Federation. A few years ago, in 2008 and 2009, we dealt with the same subject in the Riigikogu and made inquiries to the Foreign Minister. At the time, representatives of the Cabinet said that they would not continue to deal with this issue, and they locked it down. Foreign Minister Urmas Paet repeatedly stressed that the practice of neighbouring countries should also be looked at. He claimed that if they were doing well, we would return to the subject as well. Now the Latvians have signed this agreement, and people move across the border without visa. Simply put, this means that people living up to 50 kilometres from the border who have a desire to communicate economically, culturally or socially with people living in Russia can apply for permission under a simplified procedure. We expect answers from the Foreign Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U12	Evgeni Ossinovski, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, I will give the Riigikogu a draft law amending § 29 of the Citizenship Act to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. As we know, § 29 of the Citizenship Act regulates the procedure for withdrawing Estonian citizenship from a person who has another citizenship in addition to Estonian citizenship. This is done under this section. The person is given the opportunity to give up the citizenship of another country for a period of time and thus maintain Estonian citizenship. However, there have been cases for a long time that it is not possible for a person to comply with this precept and to give up the citizenship of another country. For example, I know the next case. The child of two non-citizens, or people with a grey passport, has acquired Estonian citizenship by naturalisation, after which one of the parents of this child has entered the citizenship of the Russian Federation and received the citizenship of the Russian Federation in addition to himself, without being aware that double citizenship is prohibited in Estonia. If this child is asked to renounce the citizenship of the Russian Federation, it turns out that Russia will not allow minors to give up their citizenship, which is why this family will not be able to comply with the precept of the Police and Border Guard Board and remain Estonian citizens, even if they really want to. With this draft, we give the Police and Border Guard Board discretion on this issue and allow the person to retain Estonian citizenship if it is impossible, dangerous or unreasonable to give up the second citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U14	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U15	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I have the honour to address an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. This question deals with the content of the correspondence that we, the Minister and I, consistently, hold on the guidance material for assessing the well-being of the child. As we all remember, the Ministry of Social Affairs ordered guidance from the NGO Family and Children's Advisory Centre on a national study of children's well-being, which is entitled "Children's well-being tool for child protection workers." The Ministry of Social Affairs supported the preparation of the handbook with EUR 25000. From my correspondence with Mr. Clothing, I was surprised to learn that it was not really a book, EUR 25000 cost guidance material that is online in the form of a PDF file. When we asked how much money we could issue in print, for example, it turned out to be around 100,000. Guidance material has also come under acute criticism in terms of content, as it is said to be full of errors and is largely based on copying and adhesive methods. The guide material has not been agreed with the authors whose works have been used to produce this material. The authors are researchers from the University of Tartu who have assessed this guide very poorly. In April and June this year, I addressed the Minister with a written question about this material. Unfortunately, the Minister's answers were so vague that we would have to turn to him for an answer. We hope that if he shows up in this hall, we will also know how it is possible that there will be no public procurement for such an amount, as we know, if the amount exceeds EUR 10000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U16	Good fellows! I now have a little bit of detail on the agenda. In fact, as most of us know, the debate on agenda item 9 was unfinished at the last sitting. The discussion was interrupted by the revision of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendments to the draft law amending the law. We will continue to examine the amendments. We have reached Amendment 74. Amendment 74 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that the proposal should be disregarded. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U17	I would like to vote on Amendment 74 and, before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U18	Thank you! I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U19	Dear colleagues, the break taken by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 74th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 22), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 46 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 75 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 75 and I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U21	Got it. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U22	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 75th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 20) and 45 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 76th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U23	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would also like to ask for the 76th amendment to be voted and, before the vote, for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U24	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U25	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put the 76th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 17 votes for and against 38 members of the Riigikogu. The amendment was not supported. 77th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U26	On behalf of the IRL, a two-minute break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U27	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U28	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would first like to ask for this amendment to be voted on. This is an amendment tabled by the Socialists. I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U29	We are voting on this proposal and there is a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U30	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We have come to Amendment 77 by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. I shall put this amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 5 votes to 42 members of the Riigikogu with 1 abstention. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 78. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U31	Dear Madame Vice-Chairman, good morning to you too. I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 78 and I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U32	Ten minutes break. The sitting will be resumed at 11.12.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U33	Thank you, Mr President. I understand from Mr Stalnukhin that this is not a matter of putting on the agenda, but a question of the full text of the third reading, which cannot be until the second reading has been completed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U34	Thank you for your attention. I just didn't see that number before. Please look at the exact text! Point 10 on draft 430 states that the third reading will take place when the second one is closed. Such contingent items have been put on the agenda before; this is not a precedent. We had the drafts put on the agenda conditionally even when an additional sitting was planned. In short, this "third reading when the second one is closed" is conditional. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U35	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 78, made by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 57 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was therefore supported. Amendment 79. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U36	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on, and before the vote, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U37	Thank you. We'll resume the hearing at 11:23.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U38	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 79, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be taken into account in substance. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 20) and 38 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 80. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U39	Thank you, Madam President. I looked at today's agenda on my desk. It says two drafts, 393 and 430, about which it is written that their second and third readings will take place one day. Paragraph 110 of our Home and Working Procedures Act states that, between two readings, the commission should prepare the final text of the draft for the third reading. It follows that assigning second and third readings to one day is quite problematic. I'll ask what it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U40	According to the board's advisor, both texts exist. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please tell me again the numbers of these drafts! I have so many papers here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U41	393 and 430. At least one of them is a draft deal dealt with by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, 430. Just a few minutes ago, I asked the chairman of the committee if there had been an emergency meeting. It has not been, the Commission has not been convened, but it is not possible to draw up this final text without the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U42	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to vote on Amendment 82 and, before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U43	It's recess time. The sitting will be resumed at 12:01 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U44	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 82, which has been made by the Committee on Culture. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was therefore supported. Amendment 83. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U45	Thank you, manager. I ask you to vote on this amendment and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U46	Ten minutes break. The sitting will be resumed at 12.12.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U47	Honourable Riigikogu! I have an official announcement to read to you. This reads as follows: "In accordance with § 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 51 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, on a proposal from 21 members of the Riigikogu, I invite the Chamber of Chambers of Toompea Castle to meet on 21 June 2013 at 00.15. The agenda for the session is as follows: First, the second reading of the basic school and upper secondary school law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related draft law amending other laws 340 if the second reading of the draft is not completed at the first or second additional session of the Riigikogu on 20 June, or the third reading if the second reading is completed at the first or second additional session of the Riigikogu on 20 June at the latest. Second, the second reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Customs Act and the Prison Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, should the second reading not be completed at the first or second additional session of the Riigikogu on 20 June, or the third reading if the second reading is completed at the first or second additional session of the Riigikogu on 20 June at the latest. Thirdly, the second reading of the draft law amending the Financial Supervision Authority Act and the Investment Funds Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 430 if the second reading of the draft is not completed at the first or second additional session of the Riigikogu on 20 June, or the third reading if the second reading is completed at the first or second additional session of the Riigikogu on 20 June at the latest. Fourthly, the third reading of the Act amending the Social Welfare Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and members of the Riigikogu Rainer Vakra, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laanet and Deniss Borodichi, in case the draft is not adopted at the first or second additional session of the Riigikogu. Fifthly, the third reading of the draft Act amending the Employment Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee, should the draft not be adopted at the first or second additional session of the Riigikogu on 20 June. Sixth, the third reading of draft law 434 on the amendment of the law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws if the draft is not adopted at the first or second additional session of the Riigikogu by 20 June at the latest. If the Riigikogu does not accept the drafts on the agenda of the session referred to in the extraordinary session convened at 00.15 a.m. on 21 June 2013, on the proposal of 21 members of the Riigikogu, I shall convene the second extraordinary session in the Chamber of Toompea Castle, beginning on 21 June 2013, 30 minutes after the end of the first extraordinary session. The agenda for the sitting is as follows: First, the second reading of the basic school and upper secondary school law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related draft law amending other laws 340 if the second reading is not completed at the first extraordinary session of 21 June at the latest, or the third reading if the second reading is completed at the first extraordinary session at the latest. Secondly, the second reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Customs Act and the Prison Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, should the second reading not be completed at the first extraordinary session of 21 June at the latest, or the third reading if the second reading is completed at the first extraordinary session at the latest. Third, the second reading of the Financial Supervision Authority Act and the Investment Funds Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related draft law amending other laws 430 if the second reading is not completed at the first extraordinary session of 21 June at the latest, or the third reading if the second reading is completed at the first extraordinary session at the latest. Fourthly, the second reading of the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and members of the Riigikogu Rainer Vakra, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laanet and Deniss Borodich, if the second reading is not completed at the first extraordinary session of 21 June, or the third reading if the second reading is completed at the first extraordinary session at the latest. Fifthly, the second reading of the draft Act amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee, 427 if the second reading of the draft is not completed at the first extraordinary session of 21 June at the latest, or the third reading if the second reading of the draft is completed at the first extraordinary session at the latest. Sixth, second reading of draft law 434 on the amendment of the law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws, if the second reading of the draft is not completed at the first extraordinary session of 21 June at the latest, or third reading if the second reading of the draft is completed at the first extraordinary session at the latest. " The announcement is signed by Ene Ergma, President of the Riigikogu on 20 June 2013. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to the vote. In the meantime, however, we have had a number of procedural questions. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U48	Mr President, it was very interesting to get this information from you. Thank you very much for this. I have a practical question for you. It is still unclear whether the second reading of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act will be interrupted or not. Can you explain the procedure to us? Will it be necessary to meet at the Committee on Culture in the run-up to this meeting, starting at 00.15, and when will we be informed whether the Committee on Culture will meet? When is the deadline for tabling amendments? Does the board think that all this can be done before 00.15?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U49	The sitting will be resumed at 11.50 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U50	Thank you. I said before the third reading could happen when the second one was finished. If the second reading is not completed, there will be no third reading. When the second reading is completed, the chairman of the committee shall convene the meeting, the Commission shall take account of the amendments and shall make any clarifications. The Commission will do everything it needs to do before the third reading. The third reading goes to the draft when the second reading is finished. You can't do it before these procedures. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U51	Thank you, Mr President. After this exciting procedural debate, the Social Democratic Party Group proposes to vote on Amendment 80 and asks for a ten-minute break before this vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U52	Thank you. The sitting will be resumed at 11.38 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U53	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 80, made by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 10), 47 members of the Riigikogu adopted the following opinion by 10 votes to 47, with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U54	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. I have a specific question concerning our regulation and the Rules of Procedure. If there is already a possibility that a second reading will take place and if it is completed, then on the same day the conditional third reading will take place, does that mean that we can ever see that one day there will be three readings: the first reading, the second reading when the first one is finished, and the third reading when the second one is finished? That's exactly what we're seeing right now. Is that true? Are you saying that such a thing is possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U55	I believe that it is not possible that there is a first, second and third reading on one agenda. Amendment 81. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U56	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 81 and I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before this vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U57	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 81, made by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 23), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 42 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 82. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U58	The procedure is as follows. The amendments will be examined first. I can't predict time, it depends on whether I want to take a break. Whether a meeting of the Committee on Culture will take place, decided by the chairman of the Committee on Culture, should be asked to do so. After all the amendments have been examined, two proposals already received by the Board of the Riigikogu will have to be examined in any case. One proposal is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the other from the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Their content is similar: the second reading of the draft should be interrupted. We'll vote and see how it goes. This will result in the next steps. Unfortunately, I can't predict exactly how this is going right now. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U59	Thank you, Madam President. I had another question, but your words drew my attention to whether a meeting of the Committee on Culture would take place will be decided by the chairman of the committee. Does he, then, confirm the final text? Isn't that why we need to call a committee? That sounded kind of weird.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U60	Maybe it sounded really weird, because of the coercive way of speaking. But I can't tell you exactly when the meeting of the Committee on Culture is going to take place right now. It can be convened by the Chairman of the Committee on Culture. If he calls it together, there'll be a meeting. That's what happens when he calls it together. [[Let's hear it.]] Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U61	I'm following the announcement you read. The President of the Riigikogu shall convene an extraordinary session less than 12 hours after the announcement of the session. We still have quite a few sessions ahead of us, and we are not sure what the state of play is of all the drafts that we need to discuss at this extraordinary session. As a member of the governing board of the Riigikogu, how does it feel whether it is a mockery of parliamentaryism or a spit in the face of parliamentaryism?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U62	I don't think either of the options you've offered me are right. The President of the Riigikogu has the right to convene an extraordinary session after 21 members of the Riigikogu have expressed their wish, regardless of the time remaining until the extraordinary session. The three-day requirement is for the additional sitting. The President of the Riigikogu decides to convene an extraordinary session. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U63	Can you get all that information on paper?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U64	Sure. This announcement appears in the media and can also be obtained on paper. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U65	I'm just obliged now...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U66	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot hear what Mikhail Stalnukhin is asking! Please, ask again!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U67	Thank you, Madam President. I have a very specific question, because now I have to ask you everything. Is today's five o'clock adjourned session still in force, is it really happening?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U68	The additional sitting that has been appointed for today is in force. It also ran through the text I read. This concerns both the first and the second additional sitting of the Riigikogu, which the President of the Riigikogu has announced several days ago. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U69	Mr President, thank you very much for your very thorough answers. However, I would like to clarify, regardless of the way in which you are speaking. Is the President of the Riigikogu, on whose behalf you report all this, convinced that the Committee on Culture, if convened, will have enough time to meet before 00.15?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U70	I find it very difficult to say what Ene Ergma, who has signed this announcement, is thinking exactly. He's not in this room. I also cannot say whether the chairman of the Committee on Culture will convene the committee or not. I can't answer you right now. Unfortunately, Ene Ergma is not here. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U71	Thank you. I will continue my first question. I certainly did not question the legitimate right of the President of the Riigikogu to convene an emergency session. My question was rather whether, in your opinion, this behaviour is in line with good practice of parliamentarianism.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U72	I believe that the convening of an extraordinary sitting, if necessary, is in line with the practice of parliamentaryism. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin! Dear colleagues, I do not hear Mikhail Stalnukhin well! Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U73	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 85, made by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 29), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 38 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 86. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U74	I ask for this amendment to be voted on and for a six-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U75	The trial's over. We'll meet you at the next sitting at 5:00. Have a nice day, everybody! Rest beautifully! Closure of the sitting at 12.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U76	Thank you. I ask you to vote on this amendment and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U77	Don't listen to us. Madam President! They say history doesn't have a coercive way of speaking. We in this hall make history. With regard to the agenda that has been tabled for us, I propose that we do not regret mistakes afterwards. How will you look at it when I propose to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu to ask the Chancellor of Justice for an interpretation of § 110 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure? What interpretation does he give that two readings are placed on a single day, of course?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U78	Thank you very much for this question. I'm talking about what's going on right now. The week's agenda will be approved at the beginning of the week. At the time the agenda was adopted, these readings were foreseen on different days. As a result of what happened in the meantime, there was a situation where other readings were delayed and could no longer take place on the day originally foreseen. The agenda shall be adopted once a week, on Monday. If a conditional third reading is included in the approved agenda, but the second reading is not completed, then the third reading will simply move forward. If you look at the clock, you will see that there are about 32 minutes left in the ongoing sitting. This means that there will be no second or conditional third reading of the draft you have mentioned in the current sitting. Can we now go to the vote on the amendments? There's a dozen more of them. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U79	Thank you, Madam President. I understand everyone's tired. Maybe that's why I tend to express myself in my own language all the time. I really don't understand what you're saying. So I ask you once again to explain the follow-up to the question of Mailis Reps, what happens to the night sitting when the Committee on Culture does not, in the meantime, gather, conditionally!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U80	I can't answer you. I can't tell you right now. All the other points have been negotiated here. This is in the hands of the chairman of the Committee on Culture, whether or not to convene the committee. It's not up to me right now. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U81	Thank you, Mr President. I assume that the 21 MPs who proposed to the President of the Riigikogu to convene an extraordinary session belong to the coalition. But I'm not asking who those 21 are. Rather, I ask the opposite: who are the coalition members who do not want this session to be convened? There are over 30 of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U82	I believe that this cannot be seen as a failure to do so. The President of the Riigikogu can convene an extraordinary session if there are at least 21 members of the Riigikogu. That's what it says right now. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin! This is the last procedural issue, then we will vote on the amendments. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U83	Look, Madam President! The laws are written in such a way that they apply to everyone in every situation. If there are any possibilities in the law, you can use them. There is no possibility in law that something will be put on the agenda conditionally without knowing whether the Commission will meet and endorse the final text. You said you could still put it on the agenda. If you think I am fighting for the interests of the opposition, that is not the case. I've run the local government and council, and I know you can't miss the letter of the law. I really don't understand why you're defending what half the hall thinks is a clear violation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U84	Thank you. I understand your question. It must be acknowledged that this agenda is not good practice. However, this is not prohibited in the Rules of Procedure Act, and this practice has been used before. It's not a first chance. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote Amendment 84. Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U85	I also had a procedural question. Good President, if you're looking at the clock, why do you think there's not going to be a second reading of Bill 393 here today?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U86	I don't understand your question. Let's get to the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 84 made by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. I interrupt the vote because I was wrong to the number of the amendment. I shall put to the vote Amendment 83, which has been tabled by the Committee on Culture. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 61 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with 6 abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 84. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U87	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment. If this amendment can be voted on, I would also ask for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U88	Ten minutes break. The hearing will be resumed at 12.43 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U89	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 84, made by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 25), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 37 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 85. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U90	Thank you. The sitting will be resumed at 12.54 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U91	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the further session of the 18th working week of the Riigikogu. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, now is the time to hand over drafts and enquiries. I feel that my colleague, Karel Rüütel, wishes to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U92	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to report an inquiry to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimethus. The Committee on the Environment met with the members of the Estonian Chamber of Environmental Associations a few weeks ago. At the meeting, the issue of the organisation of the handling of mints was raised. The Committee on the Environment asked the Ministry for further information on this matter, which has unfortunately not been received. 14 members of the Riigikogu have signed the inquiry, including members of the Social Democratic Party Group as well as members of the Democratic Association of the Riigikogu. Some farms have been banned in several countries of the European Union. As one of the last, some farms banned Holland, which is third in number of farms. After some farms and farming were banned in England, the number of new farms increased considerably, for example, in Poland, where this area is not exactly regulated by law. It can be assumed that after the ban on these farms in the Netherlands, there will be increased pressure to expand fur farms in Eastern European countries, among others in Estonia. The fact is that the Ministry of the Environment is struggling with farms that do not fulfil their obligations under Estonian law. From time to time, however, American minks can escape from farms and threaten European minks that are protected in Estonia. We have six questions for the Minister for the Environment to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U93	Thank you. I have accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Bureau. If an inquiry complies with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act, I shall forward it to the addressee immediately. No messages. Please, let's do the presence check! 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17. The Riigikogu has a quorum. Let's go to the agenda. The agenda is on your desks. I shall put to the vote the adoption of the agenda for the additional sitting. Please vote! 53 members of the Riigikogu voted against, with no abstentions. The agenda for the additional sitting has been confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U94	We will continue to examine the 340 amendments to the draft. Amendment 86 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Amendment 87 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Amendment 88 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Amendment 89 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U95	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U96	I'd love to! Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 89 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! (meeting of 33), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 52 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 90 has been tabled by the Committee on Culture. The Governing Commission has taken full account of the proposal. Amendment 91 has been tabled by the lead committee. The proposal has been fully taken into account. Amendment 92 has been tabled by the lead committee. The proposal has been fully taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, we have all examined the amendments, but the Bureau has received a proposal from both the Social Democratic Party Group and the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of Bill 340. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U97	Thank you, manager. I have a procedural question. Very many MPs have made sure that the Riigikogu plenary has voted on two conflicting provisions in the draft. Can we find out what the Committee on Culture thinks about this before we make such an important decision as stopping reading the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U98	I will immediately ask the chairman of the Committee on Culture. I can explain to you how I feel about this as a mathematician and a physicist. Don't you want it? Actually, it's not a procedural question, but will you allow me to explain? Read exactly Amendments 36 and 37. Listen to me, please! Amendment 36: "The state examination has been passed if at least one percent of the maximum result has been achieved. " Let's think now: 1% and the exam has been passed. Amendment 37: "The state examination has been passed satisfactorily if at least 20 per cent of the maximum result has been achieved. " This means that between 1% and 20% there is a grey zone. If 1% is reached, then it has been completed, but if 20%, then it has been satisfactorily executed. After that, for example, a person who has great talent in music can go to the museum academy. So there is no contradiction and therefore, ladies and gentlemen... Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Could this gray zone mean that the exam has been unsatisfactory?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U100	This grey zone means that it has not been completed overly satisfactory. [[Laughter.]] Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U101	You know, Mr President, since I asked this question, I am now purely going to say that when I asked this question, I would never have dreamed of getting such a good answer. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U102	Thank you. I thought deeply about that answer. Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U103	Thank you, Mr President. During the break, good graduates approached me and asked if there was a threshold for those who graduated very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U104	Their threshold is that you definitely have to get into a university and be very successful at any university. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group and the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of 340. Please vote! 35 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 51 against, with one abstention. This means that the second reading of Bill 340 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U105	The second reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Customs Act and the Prisons Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like a presentation by Mr Igor Gräzini, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Speaker's Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U106	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, We discussed this draft on 10 June 2013. The bill made improvements that you see. All the improvements have been made by consensus and the decision to bring this draft here was also taken by consensus. All the corrections have been explained very clearly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U107	Thank you very much, Mr Gräzin. Any questions? Please, Igor, don't go!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U108	I don't think there's any questions. Everything's so clear here. Everything's clear to every normal person.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U109	You have a question from Tõnis Kõiv. Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U110	Thank you. Dear waitress, What was the Commission's proposal to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U111	Aha! The proposal was, however, that the draft be sent to third reading on 20 June when the second reading is closed. We also propose that the second reading be stopped. These decisions were also taken by consensus. Tõnis, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U112	Thank you very much, Mr Gräzin. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let us now examine the amendments. There are five amendments to the draft law. The first is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, fully accounted for. The second, third and fourth proposals are fully taken into account by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The fifth proposal has also been taken fully into account by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Second reading of bill 393 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U113	The second reading of the Financial Supervision Authority Act and the Investment Funds Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws Act begins. Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has already spoken as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U114	Good afternoon, Mr President. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The 430 bill was discussed twice between the first and second readings in the Committee on Monetary Affairs: 10 and 17 June. The deadline for submitting amendments was 30 May. No amendments to the deadline were received, but the Committee on Monetary Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry, unanimously made three technical amendments to the draft. Let me briefly mention the content of these amendments. The first amendment aims to ensure that the concept of fund set out in the additional sections of the Law on Investment Funds covers not only investment funds established abroad but also other companies and institutions created for similar collective investments. The second amendment clarifies the subject matter of regulating the three sections of the Investment Funds Act. We are talking about sovereign wealth funds, not investment funds in general. The countries of the Agreement on the European Economic Area are taken into account, which means that this regulation does not include the provision of investment funds from third countries in Estonia. Amendment 3 introduces a number of drafting and technical arrangements. I would like to give an example of the amendment of the Financial Supervision Authority Act and cooperation in the further supervision of the financial conglomerate and the exchange of information. The technical clarification of this wording is based on the principle that the Law of the Financial Supervision Authority refrains from imposing obligations on financial supervisors in other countries which are subject to the law of the State concerned. All the amendments were supported by the Commission in a consensual manner. The procedural decisions were as follows: to send the draft to the plenary (the decision was taken unanimously), to propose the termination of the second reading (also a consensual decision) and to send the draft to the third reading when the second reading is closed. These dates have, of course, changed by now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U115	Thank you very much, Mr Urve Tiidus. No questions for the waitress. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. There are three amendments to the draft law. The first proposal is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. The second and third proposals have also been taken fully into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Second reading of bill 430 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U116	The third reading of the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and members of the Riigikogu, Rainer Vakra, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laanet and Deniss Borodichi begins. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and members of the Riigikogu Rainer Vakra, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laanet and Deniss Borodichi, 399. Please vote! 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U117	The third reading of the draft Act amending the Employment Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act initiated by the Social Affairs Committee begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act 427. Please vote! 73 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The third reading of the draft has been completed. The bill has been passed as a law. Ladies and gentlemen, since no one else takes a break, the President himself takes a 20-minute break. The Chairman of the Committee on Culture shall invite the members of the Committee on Culture to the Commission's premises for a meeting. We'll proceed at 5:42 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U118	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a sinner, and I want to take another ten minutes of recess. We'll continue in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U119	Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue the sitting. We have one more bill to discuss. The third reading of the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. Would the delegates of the political groups like to speak? No requests, I'm not opening negotiations. We can go to the final vote. Good Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the law on the protection of ambient air initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 434. Please vote! 74 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. Ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted the agenda for the additional sitting. The second additional hearing will begin in half an hour. Closure of the sitting at 5.54 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U120	Dear Riigikogu, good evening! We will begin the second additional session of the 18th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. There's no call. No messages either. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12. The Riigikogu has a quorum if more than half of the members of the Riigikogu participate in the additional session. We're going to get the agenda approved. Pursuant to § 55 (1) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the agenda for the additional sitting must be approved. The agenda is on your desks. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote the second supplementary sitting... Evgeny Ossinovski has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The first item of the agenda provides for a debate on a very important draft law. However, I could not find the text of the third reading of this bill at the back of the hall or anywhere else. How can this matter be voted on in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U122	By order of the Havi, the text of the bill came to you. Here you go! Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the vote the agenda for the second additional sitting. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 50) and 35 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U123	The first item is the third reading of the basic school and upper secondary school law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related draft law amending other laws. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U124	Thank you. I have received the draft text, but no one has even been able to see the text. When the hearing started, the text was not available to anyone. How can we get on with this now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U125	Ladies and gentlemen, the text of the bill is in the back of the hall on the shelves, in a place you already know. Would you like a one-minute break to go get those texts? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U126	I'm gonna take the manager's break for five minutes. More texts will be made. We'll proceed at 6:36 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U127	Ladies and gentlemen, have all interested parties received any material? Very nice. Please, Deniss Borodich, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U128	Yeah, procedural. I received the draft text forty seconds ago and have reached the third paragraph of Section 1. Do you think in this short time I can get to know 15 pages and shape my opinion? Do you think it's democratic?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U129	I think it's quite reasonable if we make quick reading. All the amendments have been incorporated into the text, which have been voted on in advance. There shouldn't be any news in that sense. You will receive answers to your questions by reviewing this text. Please, Yana Toom, do you have a procedural question or would you like to come and talk?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U130	Thank you, Madam President. I will continue with Mr Borodich's question. I don't know what your idea of speed-reading is, but the average adult reading speed is 300-350 words per minute. The bill has 17 pages. I believe, of course, that this text has been drafted on the basis of the previous draft, but I would still like to make sure of it personally. Could we perhaps have some time to read this text and shape our opinion? What, for example, does the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure say about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U131	You can start reading now to save time. As long as we negotiate here and ask procedural questions, it is also possible to read. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U132	Thank you, Mr President. I do not agree with your answer to Deniss Borodich's question that there is nothing surprising about this draft. The text proposed to us, which I received a few minutes earlier than Deniss Borodich, was quite surprising at one point. I am referring to subsection 22 of § 1 on page 5 of the Bill, which deals with subsections 31 (5) and 31 (6) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act. The wording before us is, as we know, based on Amendment 36 of the Committee on Culture and is combined, as was clear a few minutes ago, with Amendment 37. When I read Amendment 36, which was tabled for second reading, which states that Paragraph 31 (5) of the PGS is amended and worded as follows:...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U133	Ask me a question! We can read the proposal ourselves. What exactly is your question? Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U134	My question is that both amendments No 36 and No 37 offer a full wording and not a few sentences in the second amendment. In other words, the content of Amendment 37 is not that proposal No 36 of the Committee on Culture is accompanied by the sentence "The state examination has been carried out if 20% of the maximum result is achieved." Its content is that the exam has been passed only if at least 20% of the maximum result has been achieved. What provision of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act has given the Committee on Culture the right to combine proposals that are essentially full text and not possible additions to some of these provisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U135	Thank you. For the third reading, a text has been drawn up which takes into account all the amendments voted through and the results resulting from the vote. Amendment 36 was retained with a text such as it used to be, Amendment 37 was voted in as a result of the split of votes. These proposals were both in § 31 (5). In the last supplementary sitting, my colleague Nestor asked the President of the Riigikogu about this, who happily replied and everyone was pleased with this reply. He long explained how those two proposals met there. As far as I know, the Committee on Culture discussed this issue and considered that this wording could be so incorporated. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Please draw the attention of the questioners to the fact that the Riigikogu worked all last night. Before voting on the amendments that we are currently discussing and which people do not understand, a ten-minute break was taken in order to practice and practice properly, as one of the opposition representatives said. For a number of previous speakers, they may not have been there at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U137	Thank you. I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that the second reading of this bill ended with the joint decision of this Chamber expressed by the result of the vote. Consequently, the draft has also been discussed by the Committee on Culture and the appropriate wording has been drawn up. I give the floor to Jaak Alli. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I would like to point out, for the sake of the protocol, that point 22 of this text has never been voted by the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia. It's the first time we've been here, we haven't voted on that. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U139	Thank you. Once again, Amendment 36 was voted separately: "In order to complete the upper secondary school, state examinations must be taken in Estonian or in the cases provided for in the national curriculum of the upper secondary school as a second language, mathematics and foreign language. The State Exam has been passed if at least one percent of the maximum result has been achieved. " Amendment 37 said: "The state test has been passed satisfactorily if at least 20 per cent of the maximum result has been achieved. " These two sentences are now put together in paragraph 5. Both amendments concerned paragraph 5. Deniss Borodich.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U140	Thank you, President of the sitting. I'm asking for protocol. Can you, by putting your hand to our heart, make sure that this procedure of the bill is correct and in accordance with the law of the house and the rules of procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U141	My good faith is that it is right. If Jevgeni Ossinovski allows me, I'll give the floor to Kadri Samson first, then to Yana Toom and next to him. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U142	Thank you, Mr President. I'm asking for protocol. You have just said that we have all voted in favour of completing the second reading together in this Chamber. That's not true. We voted to interrupt the second reading. At night, two mutually exclusive amendments were voted into the draft, which automatically require the withdrawal of the reading of the draft. 51 members of the public opposed the interruption, 35 were in favour. This decision was not so uniform.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U143	Thank you for that clarification. We did indeed vote to interrupt the second reading of the draft, which was opposed by 51 and 35 members of the Riigikogu. For the sake of protocol, this has now been clarified. I give the floor to Yana Toom and then to Evgen.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U144	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry, but I'm asking again for the sake of protocol. I want to hear from you whether I understand correctly that the state examination is now divided into two: satisfactory execution and simple execution. Thus, it is possible to pass an examination unsatisfactoryly within the meaning of the law. That's brilliant. [[Interjection from the floor: Yeah, it's just like that. Got it!]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U145	Yeah, it's just like that. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U146	Thank you. Do you think Amendment 37, which states that...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U147	Ladies and gentlemen, we are currently listening to Mr Ossinovski's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U148	Do you think Amendment 37, which is intended that an examination can only be passed if at least 20% of the maximum result has been achieved, is in line with the idea of Amendment 36, where this bar is 1%?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U149	This is how I understand that these proposals are complementary. One says the State Exam has been passed, the other says that the State Exam has been satisfactorily passed. These are two different concepts. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U150	Thank you. I have a procedural question. At second reading, Amendment 37 was tabled. The Riigikogu's plenary session decided that the relevant section would be supplemented by a new point. But I don't see that new point anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U151	This new point is...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U152	There's no new point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U153	This is stated in paragraph 5: "The state examination has been carried out satisfactorily if at least 20 per cent of the maximum result has been achieved. " You see, this underlined sentence. We'll take the last procedural question. Please, Mailis Reps! Ladies and gentlemen, please respect each other. We still have a lot of work to do today. Please listen to Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U154	Thank you, Mr President. It is certainly very respectable what you, as President of the sitting, think and think. However, if the Committee on Culture, perhaps also the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, had asked for the idea and purpose of the proposers before these proposals were put together, it would have become clear that the proposal of the Centre Party Group was to replace point 1 by 20 points. Our goal was never to give schools a choice as to whether they liked 1 point or 20 points.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U155	Thank you. These two proposals have been put together according to the outcome of the vote, on which both proposals remained in the draft. The Committee on Culture held a meeting whose decisions have been recorded in the minutes. If we could go to the speeches, I believe that the chairman of the Committee on Culture can explain exactly how these things are. In the meantime, let's take Mart Nut's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U156	Thank you. I understand we're not discussing any drafts at the moment, we're discussing procedural issues. When speaking about procedural issues, I am, unfortunately, obliged to point out that the Riigikogu is a cross-section of the people. A cross section of the people means that it can include both weak-minded people and people who do not understand the situation. Please do not discriminate against them! [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U157	Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U158	Thank you, Madam President. I'm dissipated...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U159	I ask you to respect each other! Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U160	I think you're a little late for that request, but that's what it is. Once again, I want to clarify for the sake of protocol. Am I reading correctly here that this law grants an upper secondary school graduation certificate to an assistant who takes an unsatisfactory state exam?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U161	This is not a procedural question for the President of the sitting. I believe that this is a matter for specialists from the Committee on Culture. Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U162	Thank you to the President of the sitting. There was a very keen thought about those who did not understand the situation and the rules of procedure. I, too, wanted to fix my question for the sake of the record. If this draft is renegotiated in two months' time, those who have not understood it will be able to come back to this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U163	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U164	Thank you. I would like to know from the President whether my next plea, along with the question, is a procedural question. Do you also understand that this draft does not in any way define an unsatisfactory state examination, but only speaks of execution and only of satisfactory execution, not even a grain of unsatisfactory execution? Was that the right question?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U165	Thank you for your clarification. However, I must say that this is not a procedural issue. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U166	I hope that my question qualifies as a procedural question. That is the clarification of Yana Toom's question. After voting on the amendments submitted to second reading, we are in a situation where both the passing of the examination and the satisfactory completion of the examination are included in the draft. We have had no opportunity in the course of the procedure to ask the Commission representative this question that Yana Toom has asked you about this highly bizarre and controversial text that has now come before us. Do you think that the procedure for the final vote on the draft is in line with the spirit of the Rules of Procedure Act, in a situation where we do not know the position of the commission on this important issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U167	There are already enough questions in this context. I am absolutely convinced that the representative of the Committee on Culture, who comes to this panel during the negotiations, will be able to answer all these substantive specific questions in his speech. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U168	Thank you, Madam President. I think I already got the answer to my question, but I'm going to be more specific. Will this moment of truth come when I can ask the representative of the Committee on Culture the questions that were not yet there when we dealt with this draft at second reading, when the representative of the Committee on Culture comes to speak at the remote?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U169	It wasn't a procedural question. But I really hope that the representative of the Committee on Culture will answer all the substantive questions raised here in the Chamber. Now I give my word to Eiki Nestor. I see you're registered. I'll give you the word in line.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U170	Thank you, manager. First of all, I'm amazed at your custom of choosing who you pick out of that line.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U171	You were the first on the list.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U172	Thanks for the floor! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft law for basic school and upper secondary school to us. We had it at first reading. After that, amendments were tabled. The text of the draft has changed since the second reading. Paragraph 1 (22) is presented to us for a third reading. I wonder where this point 22 is, in the form it is in here, in the table of amendments tabled for our second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U173	This is a combination of two amendments. Amendment 36 has been voted in and Amendment 37 has also been voted in. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U174	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. I ask you not to say any more that the chairman of the Committee on Culture will come to the board, explain and answer questions! Firstly, only authorised representatives of the political groups will have the floor at third reading. Secondly, he does not have the opportunity to answer the questions, because the Home and Rules of Procedure Act does not provide for the procedure that you described just a few minutes ago. I'm impressed. It would just be interesting to know how many years it takes for you to learn our rules of procedure and home.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U175	I can't answer that last question. It is true, however, that there is no round of questions and answers at third reading. However, the person who comes to this remote control during this procedure, called 'negotiation', can answer the questions raised and talk about these matters. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U176	Thank you. Am I on the right path when I say that the problem has now been artificially raised? The position of the Committee on Culture is unambiguously expressed in the explanatory memorandum accompanying the text of the third reading, which states that the Committee on Culture has sent this text to third reading in this form. That is the Commission's position.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U177	I agree with the other half of your statement. For the first part, everyone has the opportunity and right to ask procedural questions. That's the way it's been. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U178	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Looks like you got it all wrong. The current procedural deadlock is actually due to the fact that this text, which is before us at third reading, does not represent anyone's purpose or point. It does not express the opinion of the initiator, the lead committee or the authors of either amendment. This interaction is actually a failure. The coalition is trying to pretend that what turned out was what they wanted to achieve. To the legislator, to put it mildly, it's very embarrassing. That is why this bill should have stopped the second reading. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U179	The current situation is the result of the vote. I'm not going to judge the emotional side of this situation. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U180	I would like to point out that, on the basis of Section 5 "Third reading of the draft law" of Chapter 11 of our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, no person can appear at third reading as a representative of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U181	Thank you for your comment. Let's get this straight. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U182	Thank you, Madam President. Once again, I want to clarify for the sake of protocol. Let me get this straight. As President of your sitting, you are now dictating to a representative of a group what he must say about the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U183	I certainly do not dictate to anyone what has to be told about the remote. My only human hope is that the questions raised will be answered. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U184	Thank you, Mr President. It is certainly nice that Mr Rummo, a member of the Committee on Culture, who is a member of the coalition, understands the ratio of the votes to 4: 5 so that the Committee on Culture has brought such a piece of shit into this hall with great consensus and joy. However, I must make it clear that all four members of the opposition's Committee on Culture, two from the Central Party Group and two from the Socialists, were extremely upset about bringing together such proposals. The Centre Party Group reiterated that our proposal was not intended to create a grey zone from one to twenty points.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U185	Thank you very much for this clarification. I'll take your word for it. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U186	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I don't have much of a desire to bully you, but I'm asking for democracy and the future. Amendment 36 and Amendment 37 have been accepted by the Riigikogu plenary. Neither of these will I find in the text before us, instead there is a new wording in paragraph 22 which is not in the table of amendments. Any committee in the Riigikogu has no right to come up with any amendments following the decision of the plenary assembly. On the basis of which section of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act has the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu brought § 1 22 before us? Who gave them that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U187	I believe that this right was granted to those in plenary who voted in favour of Amendments 36 and 37. The current situation is that the wording of this paragraph is the result of this vote. No matter how many times you ask me for more details, there's nothing else I can tell you. The answer remains the same. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U188	Thank you, Mr President. My question is about what my colleague, Sven Mikser, pointed out. In fact, this text is not the will of anyone, but a unique combination of two opposing proposals. If, as President of the sitting, you allow this type of combination that is not actually provided for by our Home and Working Procedures Act, then you will set a precedent. Can we, for example, not combine two competing proposals that the draft will enter into force on 1 January and will enter into force on 2 January? There is no contradiction: if it enters into force on 1 January, it will also enter into force on 2 January. How do you assess the impact of creating this type of precedent on the reputation of the Riigikogu and how we implement parliamentary democracy here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U189	First of all, this is not a procedural issue. Secondly, it is not my job here to evaluate reputation. Please, Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U190	Thank you. Am I right to understand that it is not the task of the President of the sitting, in essence, to analyse the issues that are in the debate, but to ensure that the sitting complies with the rules of procedure? If that's the case, I think it's all done. As for the following, my opinion is that the President of the sitting is obliged to put to the vote the proposals on the table. There is no reason to re-examine all procedural matters, as this is the competence of the President of the sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U191	Thank you very much for bringing this to my attention. My aim is not to create tensions, but to try to respond peacefully to questions that are really procedural. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U192	Thank you, Mr President. We all understand that you are now in a situation where you must, I do not know, for what reasons to put the final vote to the cull. I'll make you a suggestion. For the sake of the Riigikogu's reputation, take a break and hold a joint meeting of the Board of the Riigikogu and the Committee on Culture to prevent damage to the Riigikogu's reputation and damage that may arise from the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act for all schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U193	Thank you very much for this proposal. However, I reserve the right to chair this sitting myself. Let's get to the negotiations. Väino Linde.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U194	Good chairman of the sitting! I also have a procedural question. Without wanting to scratch the opposition, however, I ask who could then tell us whether paragraph 22 (5) of § 1 at issue conflicts with the principle of constitutional legal clarity or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U195	At present, there is no one else who would give this answer than the same hall that has voted on these amendments. I don't see any other options right now. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U196	Thank you. I will ask my question more simply. I understand you can't make any substantive assessments, I'm not asking them. But I have a procedural question. Who has given the Committee on Culture the right to change the results of the votes in the Chamber of the Riigikogu? Which section of the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure or the Constitution gives them that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U197	Thank you. I cannot answer for the Committee on Culture because I did not attend this meeting. Let this be said for the sake of protocol. However, I am based on the fact that amendments have been voted through in the Chamber. Consequently, the Committee on Culture has held a meeting and put together the wording of the draft, which is based on these amendments. Here we are. Ladies and gentlemen, please go to the negotiations. Good Priit Toobal, I give you my word again. However, I beg you very much that we finish the procedural questions and go to the negotiations! Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U198	Thank you, Mr President. You said that all the proposals taken into account in the final text have been supported in this large Chamber. How many votes in favour and against did this proposal, which has been much discussed, come up with a proposal on paragraphs 5 and 6 of § 31?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U199	I ask my assistants to look up this table, because there was more than one vote. They're gonna check it out right now. There's no answer in the papers on this table. I think we'll find that answer to you in two minutes. Two minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U200	Ladies and gentlemen, in response to Mr Tobal's question, I have the following to say. Amendment 37 received 50 votes in favour and 28 against, with 5 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed that Priit Toobal's question is the last procedural question. I will take the President's right and open negotiations. I'm asking Kaia Iva to speak to you! Eight minutes. [[There's trampling in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U201	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you can all follow my call. I have today... What are we doing in this situation? Can't talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U202	Honourable Riigikogu, please, respect the performer! We've been discussing procedural issues here for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U203	Will the President allow me to begin?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U204	Please begin! [[There's trampling in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U205	This draft law...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U206	Honourable waitress! Indeed, the situation is completely unprecedented. I'll take a five-minute break. Please, let's get this over with!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U207	Honourable Riigikogu! Before we go any further, I have to tell you this. The situation is that we have reached the third reading, we can negotiate and go to the final vote. Before that, I'm giving Priit Toobal the opportunity to ask a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U208	Two minutes... [[In the diner.]] Unfortunately, I can't take a break now. We're going to the presence check. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 58 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; 43 are missing. We are going to the final vote. The proposal of the commission is that Bill 340 should be adopted as a law. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related other laws 340. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 49), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 34 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U209	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft, which I hope will be adopted as a law, which has reached the third reading, has been dealt with in considerable length and depth. There's no such thing as a sloppy rush. I do not wish to delay this procedure at the end of the line with a long speech. The Reform Party is pleased that we have managed, on a parliamentary basis, to bring this relatively incomplete draft into such a condition that it is now well thought out, the amendments have been negotiated with the author and representatives of the target groups, and the draft is also implemented. Schools will be able to meet the new academic year with the knowledge of the prospects that await them in continuing their activities. Assistants know what they need to do in order to continue their education. In this strange atmosphere, I would like to recall that the Committee on Culture had an impeccably good spirit of cooperation between all political groups, cooperation with the representatives of the target groups took place in a spirit of good mutual respect, and the Ministry of Education and Research was prepared to take into account the Parliament's emerging will. Everything that remained open and vague, everything that has no coverage in the form of implementing legislation-plans negotiated with society, has been removed from the text. We look forward to these points, these are fundamentally important points that were taken out in the autumn of the new draft, in order to return to this issue freshly and to deal with it in the spirit of constructive criticism as we have dealt with the current draft. The Reform Party Group calls on everyone to vote in favour of adopting this law so that we can move forward. There are many other things in Estonia's educational organisation that need clarity and promotion for the future of our young people. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U210	Thank you very much. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U211	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Central Party Group is pleased that the Reform Party is pleased. Something else that would give you a chance to rejoice, isn't it? You know, I have to apologize to my group because I had to make an analysis here, but after the first line by my colleague Mart Nut, who heard this, it reminds me of what was said there, I do not see the need to talk about what we have been talking about here for the last hour and a half hours already very thoroughly. I'm talking about something else. Decades ago, the New York police gave such a suggestion: "If you are raped and need help, relax and try to be content. " I appeal to my group and to the Socialists: you see, this rule is also used by the coalition. The Ministry of Education and Research has raped their brains, they see no further in this life than the finger of the Minister of Education. At the same time, they have such a good and good time. Each of these talks should have an introduction. Peter I, who was a very aphoristic man, once said that the boyars had to give their speeches in a duuma by heart so that every man's foolishness could be seen. He also had a owl (in total he gave more than 3,000), where about this thought was made: "Let him begin with the appearance at the bottom, and it is foolish for him not to intimidate the superiors with his mind. " Actually, that's what's happening right now. The Chief is the Government of the Republic, or rather, the Ministry of Education and Research, although he should be the people and our servant. But we here, happily and foolishly, try to fill every foolishness that comes down from up there, now from above. This reminds me of a case in which I attended some thirty years ago. I was then crowned and brought five young soldiers from Georgia to Estonia at the command of the commander. In Vilnius, we had to jump from one train to another. We had a waiting period when an employee of this railway station ran to me and asked: "Do you command them? Go see what they're doing in there! " I went to see. There was a heated water machine, and one of my employees tried to tame five-pounds in the hole where we put the three-pound coins. When I asked him what he thought he was doing, my dear brother, he said they had the same machines in Tbilisi, but they used five-pound coins. My point is that somebody's figured out some kind of digital, I don't know how to say the world of education, even though the real world is behind this window, and is now trying to push through decisions that are made up like this cartoon. I have long tried to understand where the decisions that destroy the Estonian education system come from. There won't be much left of it soon. I can say that I also have a clear opinion on where such decisions come from. Seven or eight years ago, I was at a seminar at the Ministry of Education and Research in Tartu. It was on the third floor, where the doors shut with the keys. I walked down the hallway with an officer, and a girl came up: naked stomach, miniskirt, a little ring from the belly button, another nose. I asked what the kids were doing here. The official started whispering, "Hey, it's not a kid, it's the head of a department. " We do not command experienced teachers in the Ministry of Education, as it should be, but those who have built a long career in school and have shown themselves to be a successful teacher. We have young people at the university who are trying to build the school as the student sees fit. This is what's gonna be all this shit. How can we wait for something to change? You know, in Russia it used to be a day like this in Estonia's history, when the peasant could leave his landlord's home and settle with the neighbouring landlord. That's when he didn't like the old manor. One fine day, this time it was stopped, and the peasants became serfs. Tonight, symbolically speaking, it's an analogous anniversary. Teachers no longer have a great desire to improve themselves in the near future, everyone is just teachers, everyone is on the same level. In time, everyone will have the same salary. There's no point in trying to get to a higher level with this 1% exam. The salary is the same and the attitude is the same. A 35-hour working week is valid for serfdom. Who's gonna decide the hour's load? Director. You have, I don't know, pink or light blue glasses on. I don't think you know anything about life. You will listen to what the directors who have been trained by the Ministry of Education and Research are saying. Communicate with the teachers! Try to understand that every school has a much more complicated world than you see it. It's actually like that in any arbitrary collective. It is not far from a time when the 35 weeks will be used against the teacher. If the teacher's director doesn't like it, he's gonna get an hour's load, so he's gonna walk away. Last thought. How would you like the same principle to apply to police officers, so that they decide for themselves what fine they will impose on you or send you to prison for several days, it would not be in the law? We vote against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U212	Thank you very much. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U213	Good manager! Honourable colleagues! In Luke's Gospel, Jesus says: "Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing. " Unfortunately, I am convinced that the ambassadors on my right know very well what they are doing. The processing of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in this hall is an example of how the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia should not work. You could say that this is another example, but I think it's far worse than the previous ones. I would very much like to talk about the substance of the draft, but, in fact, due to the lack of substance, there is not much to talk about. The concerns of the opposition and interest groups about how to give teachers confidence that their already excessive workload would not increase even further if the law was adopted, after all, despite repeated inquiries during the procedure, did not respond at all. It is also still completely unclear how it is intended to ensure the remuneration of class management when the law enters into force. There was also an unanswered question as to what could be positive for teachers to lose their levels of accreditation. This change removes the existing motivation for teachers to improve themselves without offering something else instead. The only minor amendment tabled by the opposition, which was supported by the coalition at second reading, concerned the possibility of setting up progymnasiums. At the same time, it is incomprehensible why the coalition that is ruling in the future would want to tensely rule out the possibility of establishing full cycle schools. It is also very regrettable that the draft does not provide for any measures to prevent unfair competition, which places state secondary schools in county centres in a position of considerable advantage over the already functioning municipal upper secondary schools. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on basic school and upper secondary school, of which the whole part of the funding was allocated in the final phase of the procedure, has already been named Swiss cheese. Indeed, there are more holes here than the law itself. It is clear that such a meaningless law exists in the coalition, and in particular the Union of the Fatherland and Res Publica, it is necessary to adopt in haste only in order to defend in any way the customary uniforms of the Minister of Education. As the only formal reason why the draft, which has actually become meaningless because of the allocation of the funding parameter, was forced by force and by ignoring the good practice of parliamentary work, the Government Union has brought the need to provide students entering the aid tour in the autumn with certainty about the threshold for state examinations in the spring ahead. Does anyone dare say that this has become clear now? Of course not. On the contrary, it's gotten crazy. In a completely unprecedented way, and for reasons only known to them, the members of the coalition voted in the draft amendments which essentially exclude each other: one sets the threshold of 1% and the other 20% of the maximum result of the examination. Even more so, after this phobia, the coalition refused to accept the mistake and to interrupt the procedure. In this situation, the Social Democrats, as a responsible opposition, could do nothing but express a clear opposition to the desire of the majority of the Riigikogu to deliberately produce a legislative crack. Our only option was to try, with all the means at our disposal, to put pressure on the government coalition so that a dangerous precedent would be abandoned and the reading of the draft would be interrupted, so that it could at least be formalised before the final vote. But instead of making sense, the coalition pretended to be offended and came up with a strange and unconvincing story about how a clear contradiction in the law would not be a problem and the threshold for taking the state exam would be free to be 1% and 20% at the same time. The second reading was completed, and this is how Parliament has been playing its corner in a rather faceless way by now. We all understand that the text before us does not actually reflect either of the two amendments approved in the Chambers. Nor does it reflect the will expressed by the initiators, the lead committee, the majority of the Chamber or the authors of the amendments. However, it is like nobody's sentence is now in the draft and is waiting for the final vote. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U214	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U215	When such a precedent is set, it is no wonder that in the future we will see laws that will enter into force at the same time as 1 January and 1 July, or we will pay VAT, for example, at the same time as 18% and 20%, according to the law. The Chancellor of Justice has said that legal clarity is a constitutional value. If the Riigikogu is to adopt this law in the form before us today, the President of the Republic must, according to the Social Democrats, refrain from declaring the law and refer it back to Parliament so that the mistake made can still be corrected before the law enters into force. If necessary, we will certainly call on the President to do so. But I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that today, even without external help, Parliament has the opportunity to come out of this embarrassing story with some dignity, and to vote against the draft, which has already come before us very badly in the first place, and with the second reading of today's night, which has become ridiculous. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I call on all colleagues to make the right decision and to reject the draft PGS before us in the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U216	Thank you very much. Negotiations have been held, negotiations are closed. We shall proceed to the final vote. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U217	Pursuant to § 77 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the presence could also be checked.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U218	Okay. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U219	Hi! [[Laughter.]] Two-minute break, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U220	I'm sorry! Say again, I didn't hear you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U221	I said hello at first, and then I said I'd like a two-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U222	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill was prepared by the Ministry of Education and Research in cooperation with partners and interest groups for two years; it is the seventh month of the Riigikogu proceedings. In this light, it was difficult for me to understand the reproach that this work had been done in haste. But at night, against Thursday, listening to the speeches of the opposition, I too began to think that there might still be a point in claiming haste. A large number of colleagues confused the terms used in the law, did not distinguish between the minimum wage and the average salary, or could not understand that if, in addition to the amount allocated to pay the minimum wage, the schools would receive 20% extra money, not all would have to receive equal pay and some top teachers could receive double pay. The argument, multiplied by incomprehensible consistency, that if the state gives more money to schools, as was the case this year, the teacher's salary will be reduced, it will not fit within the limits of my numeracy and logic. However, if it appears that the opposition's speeches are full of lies when it is clear that the speaker has not even read the current basic school and upper secondary school law, not to mention the changes to it, it is clear that giving extra time, repeating several times or rejecting the political support that he has learned in these nightly speeches and press releases in an embarrassing way, does not help with parliamentary helping lessons. The teacher's general working time limit of 35 hours a week has been in force for many years. You shouldn't scare people into having a teacher in front of the class for 35 hours now. It is not worth it to be forced to lead the class without money or with an experienced teacher's salary being reduced. An accredited teacher shall maintain a higher degree of qualification with the corresponding salary until the end of the accreditation period (this period shall be five years). The minimum wage for teachers is 715 euros this year, for senior teachers 736 euros and for methodological teachers 889 euros. After the introduction of the professional system, higher minimum wages will be maintained until the teachers' one and a single minimum wage has also exceeded the minimum wage of the methodological teacher. So far, the state-set schooling premium rate is left to the municipality, schoolkeeper and teacher to decide. The wage subsidy for municipalities will continue to include all the money needed to pay the so-called premium, including the class-leading premium, as well as the method teacher premium. The state comes to the aid of the school in providing support services. I would remind you that, according to the law in force so far, the obligation to provide support services has already been on the shoulders of the municipality since 1990. However, part of the teachers' salary is also allowed to be paid to support specialists. True, there is no legal basis for this. When thinking about smaller municipalities, the state takes a clear responsibility to ensure that all students have access to support services. Study counselling centres are developed so that smaller schools can order a specialist school from there. The state's additional support is needed here primarily in smaller schools and municipalities, who themselves are unable to provide sufficient workload for support specialists. In addition, the intention in the autumn debate is to provide direct public funding for school support specialists. I think the amount of this extra money could be 2% of the teachers' wage fund. In order for everyone to have a school in which to grow with the help of a good teacher, the state contributes to maintaining a basic school close to home and ensures the existence of strong upper secondary schools in each county. In the case of state examinations at the end of the upper secondary school, the suggestions of the parties have been heard. The threshold will be moved back to 1 point, as was the case until 2002, when the purpose of the examination was to provide, in particular, comparable information on the performance of schools and students and the extent to which young people have achieved the learning outcomes specified in the curriculum. However, there has been an amendment to the draft law, which suggests that a satisfactory performance of the state examination is considered if at least 20% of the possible points have been reached, but this is not a discriminatory threshold. Whether a student graduates from school will be decided by teachers who have been in personal contact with a young person for several years and who have considered his results worthy of graduating from the 12th grade. A school examination and student study must be completed at the end of the upper secondary school. The organisation of upper secondary school also changes that there is no longer a need for three courses of study and that the school can offer the required options in a flexible way. Some basic schools are expected to change the fact that school holidays can be held at different times from national holidays and that additional holidays can also be made. I worked at school when I was paid for the following activities according to the list of tarifications on several pages, each activity having a priceless effect: giving lessons, improving notebooks, organising community service, running a study office, maintaining a computer class, class management, conducting a study section, coaching a student's practice, preparing students for an olympiad. Is it really reasonable to want such crutches to be enshrined in the law today, in the 21st century? I would be very pleased if no one would humiliate teachers and school leaders by claiming that without detailed codes of conduct in the law, no schoolman can take a step. It is precisely greater flexibility and decision-making and giving responsibility to the school level, to the director and to the board of trustees, that is one of the most important words of this law. Only if the head of the school, the teacher, the council and the municipality can decide for themselves, agree between themselves, abide by agreements, work as a team and take responsibility can they also teach it to children. But that is what we expect from the school, after all, for our young people to grow into good citizens, such as those who keep their word. I am pleased that the basic school and upper secondary school law is expected to be adopted today and that the foundations for raising the teacher's minimum wage will also be clarified in the coming year. Currently, the minimum wage for a teacher is 715 euros. I believe that if we adopt this law and continue the funding analysis in the autumn, we can take very clear action and I believe that the very real aim is that next year the minimum salary for a teacher would be EUR 800. Thank you to all constructive practitioners of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U223	Thank you. Perhaps I will again exceed my mandate when I start to summarise how this was achieved, but I have learned from the lawyers that the first part, which you read along with the section number, is a pointing text, but the part where there is a specific sentence, is incorporated into the text of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not procedural questions at the moment about the procedures that we can do in this Chamber. I'll remind you again what I said after the break. We have come to a situation where there is a third reading. It is possible to negotiate and hold a final vote at the time of the third reading. There is no procedure for other activities. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U224	Thank you, Madam President. I have a proposal for you to get out of this stupid situation. The chair could take a technical break until midnight, when this additional session would automatically run out, and we would meet at the special session at 00.15. By that time, there will be a correct draft which will be brought into the Chamber and which will form the basis for the final decision. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U225	Thank you very much for these suggestions. Unfortunately, at present, it is not possible to incorporate this text in any other way in the final text of the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a proposal for you to move on to the negotiations. Please, Kaia Iva! Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U226	I'm asking for protocol or verbatim. You spoke about the pointing and the substance of the amendment. The section referring to this amendment provides for a new point 22 of § 1 of the draft text to be supplemented by a renumbering of the following points. Then there will be quotes and there will be a clear follow-up to the text of this amendment, which must go to the text of the draft in accordance with § 106 (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. In addition to the fact that it is really possible to negotiate and vote at third reading, as you said, it is certainly possible to ask whether this text, which the Bureau has brought here for discussion, still complies with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. I'm asking for an answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U227	Thank you very much. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U228	Thank you. To be clear, this text has not been submitted to you by the Bureau, but by the Committee on Culture has brought it here. Please, Kaia Iva! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U229	Thank you, Mr President. This issue is more in the interest of the protocol. I asked how the votes on § 31 (5) and (6) were voted on. You lied to me when you said the result of that vote. This proposal has not been voted on by the Assembly. You have read to me the result of the vote on the 37th amendment. This proposal, however, was quite different from that taken into account in the text on blue paper. Is it customary for the chairman of the hearing to give false information from the remote?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U230	I certainly did not lie to you, but I followed the protocol, which reflected the outcome of the vote on Amendment 37. That was the question I answered. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U231	Thank you, Madam President. I have a procedural question, a protest. I'm beginning to understand a little bit of how the German Social Democrats felt in the last freely elected Reichstag. The fish is starting to rot in the head. If you do not know the law on our house and rules of procedure, it would be strange to demand that it be felt by the management of a committee. I referred to the mistakes you made when you chaired the sitting and said that the chairman of the Committee on Culture would get the floor, who could answer questions, etc. I'm protesting. Pursuant to Paragraph 74 (4) of our Home and Working Procedures Act, the President of the sitting must resolve the protest without delay. This means that you will not simply tell us that you do not know when you will get the Home and Working Procedures Act clear, but you will either start learning it right now or tell us when we can hope to know it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U232	Thank you. I take note of your opinion. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U233	Thank you. I have a substantive procedural question that I have asked in different forms, but you have not answered it satisfactorily. My question is not whether passing an exam by 1 or 20 points is essentially correct in the text. As Mr Nutt said, Parliament can also sign up for foolishness in the draft. My question is completely formal. See § 106 (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. It says that if the amendment receives more votes in favour than against, the amendment will be moved to the text of the draft. Amendment 37 begins as follows: 'paragraph 31 (5) is amended and worded as follows: " This proposal does not begin so that the State Exam has been passed satisfactorily. I have a question. How can two different wordings be combined according to Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act? The amendment clearly states and must be included in the draft, that the paragraph will be amended and worded in accordance with the text of Amendment 37.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U234	Thank you. Amendment 36 was not voted, only Amendment 37. Amendment 36 was reviewed and moved forward. As a result, there is a situation where both proposals, which speak of the same thing, remain in the final text. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U235	Thank you. I still didn't get an answer. Amendment 37 states that a new point 22 is added to Paragraph 1 of the draft. This amendment, which should enter the draft, reads as follows: "paragraph 31 (5) is amended and worded as follows: (5) The State Exam has been passed satisfactorily if at least 20 per cent of the maximum result has been achieved. "If we look at § 106 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, the draft text should literally read as follows: "paragraph 31 (5) is amended and worded as follows: (5) The State Exam has been carried out satisfactorily if at least 20 per cent of the maximum result has been achieved."
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U236	Ladies and gentlemen, We're going to the next item. The third reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws relating thereto begins. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the commission is that draft 393 should be adopted as a law. Since this bill requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law, we will do a verification of the presence. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 62 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 39. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law on amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and on amending other laws in this respect 393. Please take a stand and vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. 67 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-20_U237	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Financial Supervision Authority Act and the Investment Funds Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and related amendments to other laws. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the commission is that draft 430 should be adopted as a law. We are going to vote on this proposal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Financial Supervision Authority Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Investment Funds Act and related amendments to other laws 430. Please take a stand and vote. 72 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. Honourable Riigikogu! The session V is over. I thank everyone for their extraordinarily pleasant cooperation and good ideas. I wish everyone a beautiful summer that starts tomorrow at 8:04! See you later! Closure of the sitting at 20:36 p.m.
