ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the sixth working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. You don't want to hand over any drafts or inquiries, we'll go to the announcements. Wednesday, s. On 23 October, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. A draft law amending the State Budget Act 2013, initiated on 21 October 2013, of which the commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and of the Government of the Republic. a Draft State Budget Act, initiated on 21 October, of which the commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The members of the Riigikogu are informed of the following: today, after the plenary session, there will be the formation of an Estonian-Cyprus parliamentary group in the Chamber. The group is convened by Kalle Palling, a member of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 79 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 22.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U2	We are going to the debate on today's agenda items. The first item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Public Health Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation by a member of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Hunt! Ladies and gentlemen, please be a little quieter in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I will give an overview of the preparation for the second reading of the draft law amending the Public Health Act and the State Fees Act 436 and the discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs. A little bit of a reminder. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic. a on May 20th. The first reading took place in s. a on September 11th. No amendments were tabled by the political groups, members of the Riigikogu or other committees within the deadline for submitting amendments. The Social Committee composed of Margus Tsahkna, Yana Toom, Jüri Jaanson, Maret Maripuu, Reet Roos, Rein Aidma, Viktor Vassiliev and Helmen Kütt (deficit Heljo Pikhof) discussed the preparation of the second reading at its meeting on 14 October. In addition to the members of the committee, Kersti Berendsen-Koržets, Legal Adviser at the Legal Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Leelo Männik, Head Specialist at the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, participated in the meeting and provided explanations. After discussion and hearing the proposals of the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Commission decided to make two amendments. Amendment 1 deletes Council Directive 76/768/EEC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to cosmetic products from the technical note of the Public Health Act, as it has been repealed by Regulation (EC) No 1223/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council on cosmetic products. The second amendment concerns paragraph 1 (6) of the draft text. This point enters into force on the date of entry into force of the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act, i.e. § 1 (6) of the draft is essentially related to the date of entry into force of the Act, which was set at 1 January 2014. However, on 10 October the Government of the Republic approved the draft Act amending the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities and other Acts, according to which the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act will enter into force on 1 July 2014. The dates of entry into force should be harmonised. The Social Affairs Committee made the following consensual decisions:
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U4	Sorry, waitress! I just can't hear these decisions because there's a lot of talk going on in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U5	We proposed that the draft be put on the agenda today, 22 October, we propose that the second reading be stopped and that when the second reading is completed, the draft be sent to the third reading on 6 November 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U6	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. There are two amendments to the draft law. Let's go through them. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the commission believes that this proposal should be fully taken into account. Amendment 2 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the commission believes that this proposal should be fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 436 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U7	The second item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on liquid fuel supply initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Economic Affairs Committee member Olga Sõtnik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U8	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. 9 September 2004 and its first reading took place on 9 October. No amendments were tabled in the Riigikogu by the deadline of 14 October at 5 p.m. The Economic Commission prepared the draft for a second reading at its meeting on 15 October, where representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Estonian Liquid Fuel Supply Agency of AS also participated. The Commission decided to make one amendment to the draft tabled by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to the Committee on Economic Affairs. The amendment is that the text of the draft is considered to be § 1 and the draft is supplemented by an entry into force clause according to which the law will enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the State. The entry into force of the legislative amendments contained in the draft is a prerequisite for Estonia to join the International Energy Agency. Today's amendment guarantees that legislative changes will enter into force as soon as possible. Technical and linguistic changes have also been made to the draft, which do not alter the content of the draft. The Economic Commission decided unanimously to send the draft to the Riigikogu for second reading on 22 October and to propose that the second reading be terminated. When the second reading is completed, we will be proposing a third reading on 24 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U9	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. Let us examine the amendment. The Committee on Economic Affairs has tabled one amendment to the draft. In the opinion of the Steering Committee, this amendment should be fully taken into account. The amendment has been examined. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 472 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U10	Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Rail Act, the Emergency Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Juhan Parts, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government has submitted to you a draft law amending the Rail Act, the Emergency Act and the State Fees Act. This draft law transposes the corresponding European Union Directive. Given that the European Commission has raised questions as to whether we have fully transposed the directive, we have followed the wording of the directive when presenting the draft in order to avoid unnecessary disputes with the European Commission. The draft harmonises the width of the railway protection zone across Estonia. If until now the width of the protection zone is 30 metres in cities and 50 metres in settlements, then the draft is to harmonise it to 30 metres. The protection zone imposes restrictions on the use of land below it. For example, the owner is obliged to coordinate his activities with the Technical Surveillance Authority and the railway infrastructure company. The scope of the protection zone must therefore be reasonable and take into account the interests of all parties. This amendment is also accepted by the Authority. The amendment does not affect railway safety, according to the Technical Surveillance Authority, as the history of accidents has shown that the critical limit is less than 30 metres. In addition, the draft complements the possibilities of obtaining the necessary working experience to obtain the right to drive a train. The proposal simplifies the organisation of passenger transport by museum rail and changes the procedure for applying for one-off capacity according to established needs, as well as modernising the rules relating to the Rail Traffic Register. As stated earlier, as a result of the amendments to the Rail Act, the wording of the Emergency Act is clarified in relation to the availability of vital services and the resolution of emergency situations on the railways. The amendments to the State Fees Act relate in particular to entries in the Rail Traffic Register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U12	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. I would like to ask Lembit Kaljuvee, member of the Chair Committee on Economic Affairs, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U13	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs worked collectively on this draft on three occasions. On two occasions a working group met and on one occasion we discussed the draft at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, where the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications and ministerial officials were also present. Minister Parts spoke about what will change on our railways if we bring our laws into line with this directive. Members of the Commission had questions about the width of the protection zone for ministers and officials. There was also a question about the movement of electric and freight trains towards Keila. Freight trains are known to travel at night. When we look at other directions, we see that there are no special changes. I, in the Commission, raised the question of how railway companies view this bill. We often take over some directives, but we do not notice what the transposition of one or the other directive entails. We went through these issues seriously in the working groups. About what? After all, railways are the bloodstream of our economy, and very small changes here can have very serious consequences. Look at how our rail transport has been declining over the last seven years, from 40 million tonnes the volume of transport has fallen to 20 million tonnes. The profitability of railway companies is also going downhill. We divided the railway directive into two companies, and now EVR Cargo is in a rather difficult position. We've got a budget for next year, but there's gonna be an extremely small number of profits coming from that company. If the Ministry of Finance and Jürgen Ligi had not left the possibility of using specially labelled fuel for next year, then Cargo would be in a very difficult situation, it could be said that even under water. That is why I tried to take these issues seriously so that the circulation of our economy would not be disrupted. However, as a result of the meetings, I had confidence that these legislative changes would not make the situation of railway companies worse or more difficult. These were the questions in the Commission, and I also explained why they were raised. The minister got a little emotional in the Commission, he said that as a member of the opposition, I did not need to deal with these issues, but I wanted to get to the point of conviction and to be sure that these things were okay. But now the decisions on the procedure. What was decided in the Commission? The Commission took three decisions. Firstly, to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, this decision was taken by consensus. The consensus also proposed that the first reading of the draft be stopped. The third proposal was on the deadline for amendments, which is on 6 November at 5 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U14	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The commission's proposal was that the first reading of draft 482 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for tabling 482 amendments. a on 6 November 2006 at 5 p.m. The third item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U15	Today's fourth item is the first reading of the draft law amending § 27 of the Pre-School Children's Institution Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I would like to present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U16	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Let me introduce our draft amendment to § 27 of the Pre-School Children's Institution Act 448. The content of this draft is very simple and it is quite appropriate to discuss it before the first reading of the draft State Budget Act tomorrow. If we compare the Estonian education system with the systems of other European and OECD countries, we will see that our system is quite special. Namely, our children go to school, start their studies in our understanding at the most important level of the education system only from the age of seven. In general, education statistics in Europe cover children from the age of 5 or 3 years. Not only in Estonia's own development plans, but throughout Europe there is more and more to see the goal that children should be given the first strong knowledge at an early age. Of course, I am thinking not only of sharing knowledge, but also of social skills, values and assessments that will help children make choices in their future life. Our system sets national minimum wage rates for teachers in general education schools. Every year, we have debates and debates about this, too, in all elections, this is about whether these minimum rates are sufficient (in general they are not sufficient) and how much can be raised in each budget. However, unfortunately, the salaries of kindergarten teachers are quite unfairly excluded from the debate on minimum rates of pay for teachers. A little less than ten years ago, we turned kindergarten teachers into kindergarten teachers, not only by name, but also with much higher requirements. Very many kindergarten educators had to go back to university, many and many received higher education, many also a Master's degree, because for quite a number of years there was a requirement that the head of kindergarten must have a master's degree. Later, it was abandoned, but at that time some managers took up a master's degree. When new responsibilities arose, there was, of course, hope and expectation that they would bring at least just as much attention at national level. It is therefore quite appropriate to recall that the development plan for the general education system mentions kindergarten teachers and kindergarten education quite a number of times. It says that it must be better linked to the general education system, it must work better, and it has also said that the salaries of kindergarten teachers must be more uniform across the country. What's the question now? I will sum up the introductory part of the bill before going to the details. The salaries of kindergarten teachers across the country vary quite widely. Unfortunately, these salaries start at the lowest level, either at the national minimum level or at a few dozen euros above that level. It is also common for kindergarten teachers to receive a higher salary, but since kindergarten groups, especially in areas outside the centres, are small, the teacher has half a burden or even less and actually receives a very low fee. Our proposal is to come back to this issue. As you will notice, we will come to this matter a few days after the election. This is precisely to the effect that, in our view, this should certainly be the subject of this debate on the state budget. We should at least agree at law level on how we can bring the salaries of kindergarten teachers to national attention. The very first problem here is the statement that, if minimum national pay rates are imposed on kindergarten teachers, such as for teachers in general education schools, this means that the state must take over the entire payroll fund. Let's just remind ourselves of the time of the crown, then this amount amounted to a billion kroons. So if today we look at the state budget when discussing the sums that the state should cover if the payment of wages to thousands of kindergarten teachers and the payment of all taxes were to be borne by the state, then it is clear that this is not possible. At the same time, local governments also have no interest in transferring the entire kindergarten network to the state, as in general kindergartens are one of the most important expectations that voters also had in the municipalities and cities of Estonia in these local elections. It is expected that children will be given a very good education in kindergartens and that they will be educated very well there, as well as in families with fewer children. Support and care for the elderly and the care of people with disabilities are also important for people. These were also the main topics in these elections and quite rightly, at least outside Tallinn. What are our options? Life has shown that wage harmonisation cannot be achieved through negotiations and collective agreements with local authorities, as provided for in the current law. The reason is very simple: in larger municipalities and cities, such agreements have been established at council level, fortunately to date this has been done every year. I have been very happy to observe how teachers' salaries have been similar or even the same in terms of the amount. In places where the pay of kindergarten teachers is much lower, there may be one or two kindergartens and five or six kindergarten teachers. In an area where unemployment is likely to be quite high, a kindergarten teacher is certainly not the negotiator who can ultimatively claim the same pay as teachers. Why is this level of pay important? This is important for two reasons. Firstly, as I have already said, it is very, very important for our children how they start their education, what are the first knowledge, skills and social experiences they get. A kindergarten teacher plays the most important role in this all the time when the child is in kindergarten. Secondly, I would like to point out that we sometimes forget what is positive in our lives. We're used to being pretty critical of our society. In Estonian kindergartens, there is a high level of systemicity and pedagogical skills, there are trained people who are qualified, well-trained and experienced and who have greatly improved themselves. Such a system exists in only a few European countries. Yes, so there are Nordic countries and some other countries that can be counted on the fingers of one hand. In fact, the level of childcare or pre-school education in Estonia is very rare in the world. That is another reason why I will speak more about this subject today. The amendment to paragraph 27 is not only related to the fact that we need to raise the issue of the pay of kindergarten teachers to the political level, to the issue of teachers' pay, but also to the importance of the work done in kindergarten. Now to the bill. I will try to explain clearly to you what we are changing with this bill. In paragraph 27, we note that at present, the operation of a kindergarten is solely the responsibility of the local government and also the salary is paid by the local government. This will continue, and it will continue to be the responsibility of the local government to ensure the operation of the kindergarten network and the payment of salaries to kindergarten teachers, but we will set a mandatory minimum wage at national level, which local authorities must base themselves on. In order to avoid disputes about how we dare to impose additional responsibilities on local authorities, we have carried out an analysis for quite several months. All our data is based on public documents available on the website of the Ministry of Education and Research and Statistics. If, in the meantime, new data has been obtained, I just need to remind you that this draft was handed over in June 2013, so we were able to rely on data from last year. These data have been analysed. As I said, there are municipalities (e.g. Tallinn and some other major cities, including Harku Municipality) where the salaries of teachers and kindergarten teachers are equal, but the pay gap is about 20%. Consequently, in the draft, we propose that the state cover 20% of the fees for kindergarten teachers, of course with taxes, i.e. the amount paid by local authorities according to the EHIS, the state would increase by 20% within the overall education allowance. On the other hand, minimum national rates on the pay of kindergarten teachers would also be set, as is the case with teachers. After all, they are also called teachers, and this is not going to be a very serious problem. The Government of the Republic has highlighted two bottlenecks that have been debated for almost the last 15 years. Firstly, can it be added to the local government's responsibilities that kindergarten teachers must be paid at least at a minimum level? I believe that the legislative body, the Riigikogu, is quite appropriate to discuss and decide on the level of kindergarten education we want to see. If we want to see this as part of the so-called 'uniformity school', it is also reasonable to set minimum wage rates. As Minister of Education Aaviksoo always stresses, these are minimum rates; of course, everyone can pay extra. For the local government, this means 20% that no one can say that a new obligation has been imposed without state support. In most municipalities, the pay gap is less than 20%. These are the facts I wanted to bring out to you. I call on you that, if you are not ready to discuss this draft in substance today, please look seriously at it in your group. I hope that we will come back to this issue several times in the Committee on Culture and find a way to give kindergarten teachers the right way to establish teacher status in real life, including an appropriate income, holiday pay, holiday time and everything else. Years ago, we put responsibilities on these people. Most of them have incurred high costs and received higher education. It is time for the country to recognise and value their work. As I said, the content of the draft is that under § 27, the state supports 20% of the wage paid to kindergarten teachers as part of the education allowance. The state also sets minimum rates for their salaries, as are the salaries of teachers in general education schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U17	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for your excellent review. You said you collected a lot of data that was available here and there, from the Ministry of Education and Research and Statistics, etc. Do you have any indicators of what this difference is in the Estonian state? What are the wages in the municipalities where the local government pays for kindergarten teachers, and what are the lowest kindergarten teachers' salaries that educated teachers have to cope with in our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U19	Thank you, good questioner! In our explanatory memorandum, we'll bring it out by county. This table shows the average wage rates of the counties. The lowest average gross wage was just over 500 euros, the highest being 656 euros. The highest remuneration was paid to kindergarten teachers at least last year in Harku municipality, where this remuneration was much higher than the minimum rate for teachers in general education schools, which is currently EUR 715. There are also some kindergartens in Tallinn (this is also done in some places within the kindergarten, but we look at the municipal level) and some individual municipalities around Tallinn, where teachers are paid more than in general education, but there are really only a few of them. About a third of municipalities pay the same or similar salary as teachers in general education schools, while in most municipalities, kindergarten teachers pay 10 to 15% lower than teachers in general education schools. At present, the minimum wage for teachers in general education schools is 715 euros, but the average wage for kindergarten teachers is around 600 euros at the minimum rate. It varies, but it's kind of like that. I don't want to name the municipalities, but in some of the smallest municipalities, the pay of kindergarten teachers is 400 euros minus taxes. Unfortunately, there are quite a number of these municipalities. At the same time, teachers in general education schools receive significantly higher salaries, and their working day in primary school can end half a day earlier. These people can also be neighbors. I guess that's a little bit of angst. Kindergarten teachers are mostly graduates, they have very much trained and improved themselves. Children with special needs are constantly coming to kindergartens like school. Municipalities will no longer be able to hire more special pedagogues for financial reasons, especially during the crisis, too many logos and special pedagogues were released or their jobs were laid off. Most of them received further training and are now often group teachers. If they work side by side as a special pedagogue or a quarter, but they get 400 euros minus taxes, it's very little.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U20	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good colleague! Can you tell me how these things are in other European Union countries? Will local authorities also bear the costs there, or will this matter be more centralised and the state budget will bear the main burden?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U22	Thank you, good questioner! Now we are going to the tax debate, which is very, very complicated. Even if we look across the sea at Finland, which is a very good example for us, and where the pay of kindergarten teachers is really very good, we have to admit that there is a completely different tax system. If I say most generally, there is very little local government breathing space in Estonia. We can only compare ourselves with a few Eastern European countries. In general, local authorities everywhere are given much more discretion, not only at the level of talk, but also at the tax base, and then such national guidelines may not be appropriate. When we talk about the tax base and then we talk about the liabilities, they would also be balanced. At the moment, when every commitment is added, we must automatically discuss the extent to which we come to financial aid, because the local government's revenue base is not so autonomous as to allow autonomous decisions to be taken. Analysis of local government taxes has shown that the local government has only a few percent of the room to decide what to do when looking at responsibilities and opportunities. But the next waitress, the Commission waitress, who has long been in charge of Kohila rural municipality, can certainly answer this question. Andrus Saare will certainly be able to provide a detailed answer on how much space the local government actually has. In short, in Estonia, I hope that we will do so sooner rather than later, to come to a major reform and give the local government some opportunity to decide a little more on its own. However, as far as funding for education is concerned, this system is generally such that education is financed in local governments. In a large number of countries, even in federal countries, national standards have been prescribed here. The Anglo-American system provides for tests and examinations at every level. From the age of four, the test is centrally carried out and when the money is missing, it is given more. There are balancing funds in Finland; there are other ways to do this in other countries. But in any case, education is a system where convergence is very closely pursued. The exceptional is perhaps the German system, which I feel a little more, which is indeed very autonomous at the level of the Länder. But, of course, there is also the fact that the teacher's salary varies no more than maybe ten percent in different Länder. There are no differences like the one in Estonia where this pay gap can be double.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U23	Thank you very much. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U24	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! It was about the hard and difficult work of specialized teachers and their wages. You were talking about Germany and Finland. We shouldn't even go back to Soviet time in our minds, but I remember that there was a 20% higher pay for special school teachers. The complexity of work and the great responsibility for preparing a person for an independent life were taken into account. Have you ever considered in the educational circles that perhaps they should be paid more?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U25	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, our aim should be to have specialised education centres and to provide support services in educational establishments. Only then could we somehow bring them out and recognise them. In order to be correct, it must be said that special needs teachers still have higher salaries in schools for children with special needs. This is due to the logic of the education system. Our discussions on the education of children with special needs are not even halfway through, but in the initial phase. We have to say no first. If we look at what's going on in regular schools and kindergartens, our primary goal should be that we have this very good frame there at all and that we can maintain it. I do not want to talk much about general education because it goes out of the context of this bill, but we will come back to it tomorrow when we discuss the budget. If I can say any of my thoughts now, I would like to emphasise that the first and most painful problem we should be looking at when dealing with the budget is that, despite all the promises made in the spring, there will be no cents in the budget for any support service in the next year. I am afraid that, as of 2014, we will see these fantastic people, who are well trained and ready to contribute to school, just leave. There are, of course, local authorities who can pinch money from one place or another of their budgets and take these people to school and kindergarten work, but I fear that there are very few of them. Look at the differences in pay in the explanatory memorandum! In a very large part of the municipalities, there is no awareness or financial means to employ a special teacher in kindergarten for a quarter, half or full time. I would first of all stand for these people to exist in kindergartens, only then can we start talking about bringing them out somehow.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U26	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague Mailis! Looking at this county wage rate table, you can see that the difference between the wages paid by the state and those paid by the state is quite high here. If we do not take any action now, the gap will only increase. As we know, the Ministry of Education has planned to raise teachers' salaries next year. Whether it's 12%, 10%, or 8%, the difference just keeps getting worse. If the state were to support the kindergarten pay fund at 20%, as the draft states, how much could this sum be?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U28	According to the calculations made on 6 June 2013, an additional amount of EUR 10,44 million would be needed as of this year. Like I said, it's calculated from the data we had. During this month, the EHIS data were refined, so there may be a difference of a few thousand euros, either up or down, we hope that still upwards, we hope that more children have come. It can be said that the order of magnitude is EUR 10 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U29	Thank you very much. No further questions. I would like to ask for a co-report from Andrus Saare, a member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U30	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Draft 448 was at first reading in the Committee on Culture on 7 October. The initiator, on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group, presented the draft by Mailis Reps. The draft is intended to establish a single national minimum wage for teachers of child education institutions and, in addition, to allocate an annual contribution of at least 20% from the state budget as an ad hoc allocation to the municipal and urban budgets to cover the costs of the salaries of teachers of municipal institutions. As the previous speaker explained here, the impact of the draft on the state budget is EUR 10.44 million and the draft is planned to enter into force as a law from 1 January 2014. I will give a brief overview of the debate and the issues that have arisen in the Commission. Tiina Peterson, chief expert at the General Education Department of the Ministry of Education and Research and Indrek Kilk, lawyer at the Legal Department, explained the position of the government in the committee. The representatives of the Ministry acknowledged that the salaries of teachers of children's institutions are really very different across the country, but according to the representatives of the Ministry, the draft does not help to solve this problem. That's for quite a few reasons. First, pursuant to § 10 (1) of the Pre-school Children's Institution Act, the responsibility for early childhood education is entirely the responsibility of the local government and it is not justified that the minimum wage for teachers should be set by the state. In addition, it is unclear whether the calculation of the State contribution of 20% is intended to be based on 20% of the labour costs or whether it is intended to be based on the minimum wage of teachers. It is also incomprehensible to the percentage of the word 'at least'. For whom, then, and for whom, 20%? Paragraph 1 (2) of the draft law, however, excludes the remuneration of teachers from the resources of the rural municipality or city budget and makes it unclear who and which accounts for the remaining 80% of the funds. The most important problem, however, was considered by the representatives of the Ministry to be the additional obligation that the draft law seeks to impose on the local government. In particular, the local government has every legitimate expectation that the Government of the Republic, as it did in the case of the minimum rates of pay for teachers established under the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, would now also secure the minimum rates of funding from the state budget. More about the debate. The representatives of the Ministry were asked when a new draft law on pre-school children's institution could be reached in the Riigikogu. Members of the Commission found out that the draft would be going to the coordination circle in the near future. Hopefully it will be in Riigikogu proceedings at the end of the year. Like in this Chamber, the Commission was interested in the size of the pay scissors between local authorities. It has been found that there are good municipalities where kindergarten teachers have been given the same minimum wage as school teachers, but unfortunately there are also examples to the contrary, the pay rate for kindergarten teachers may be even lower than 40% of the pay rate for school teachers. There was also a question about the place fees for kindergarten, which are different in local governments. There were discussions on whether in the future the salary of kindergarten teachers could be transferred to the state budget at all and the same amount deducted from the local government grant or set a minimum rate without adding 20%, etc. The discussion was substantial and the will to find a solution was very great. There was also an interest in how our northern neighbours have solved this problem. We learned that the northern neighbours have collective agreements and that there is no minimum threshold in the country. Finally, however, we are pleased to note that 98% of Estonian children go to kindergarten. I will take the Commission's work together with the decision: it was decided to propose that the draft be put on the agenda today, 22 October, and to reject it because of these shortcomings at first reading. There were 5 votes in favour and 4 votes against and no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U31	Thank you very much. Please ask a question, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U32	Dear waitress, I have a very specific question. Here the opinion of the representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research that this money does not help, because according to § 10 (1) of the Pre-school Children's Institution Act, the local government is obliged to do so, etc. Money doesn't help because somewhere in the law, there's an idea formulated either way. Did it not sound logical in the Commission's debate that the provisions of the Pre-school Childhood Act could be amended so that this money would really help us raise wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U33	The representative of the Ministry brought the basic school and upper secondary school law as a comparison. If we go to the introduction of minimum wage rates, the country should foresee not 20%, but actually 100% already. This amount is no longer 10,44 million, but several times higher. Then it is a completely different principled approach; the state takes over the tasks of the local government. Here, too, is the side which Mailis pointed out that it is hardly what the local authorities want to see their freedom and responsibility reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U34	Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U35	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! Maybe my question seems a little spiteful, but I'm still asking. You have worked as an elder in the parish, and you are certainly well aware of the problems with the fees of teachers and kindergarten teachers. How do you think people who know that this draft is pending will view the Commission's proposal to exclude it from the procedure? There's actually a point here, and I think it's possible to find that money, too. What do you think? I know how you voted, but what do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U36	All Members of the Commission realised that the problem raised was fully relevant and justified, but the solution proposed in the draft certainly did not work. What can be a practical solution? The Ministry of Finance forecasts a 7% increase in local government revenue next year. In my opinion, it would be well-founded if a very large proportion of this 7% were to rise in the pay of kindergarten teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U37	I would welcome a new draft law on pre-school children's institutions, which, as I mentioned, will soon go to the coordination round. I think that we could come back to this subject within the framework of the procedure of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U38	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U39	Thank you. Good colleague! Perhaps you can tell us for the verbatim report who the five of our colleagues were who did not want us to discuss this bill for the second time in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U40	Unfortunately, I don't have those names written out, I only have the result of the vote: 5-4.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U41	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that draft 448 should be rejected at first reading. We have to vote through this. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the leading committee 448 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 48 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 33 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was supported and the draft has been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted. I would like to remind you that there will be an Estonian-Cyprus parliamentary group meeting right now in this Chamber. I wish you a beautiful day. Closure of the sitting at 11.04 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U42	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U43	Thank you, manager. Dear Commission waitress, As you can see, the pay gap is growing with kindergarten teachers and teachers who are paid by the state. Where do you see the solution? The 7% increase in the local government budget next year will certainly not make it possible to significantly reduce this gap, even if all this growth is directed towards the pay of kindergarten teachers. Would it not be wise to restore the situation that once existed? I'm sure you remember when kindergarten teachers were given separate state support. The basis for the payment of such support is always a matter of negotiation, but it was within the support fund at the time. Shouldn't we go back to that? This pay gap needs to be reduced in some way and this abnormal situation must be brought to an end. If you look at this table, it is clear that it is not a question of self-government, it is not a question of whether one or the other municipality has right-wing or left-wing power, it simply does not exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U44	Just because that money doesn't exist, I can't quite agree. When I look at the beginning or the end of this table, I see neighboring municipalities here, one of which pays well to kindergarten teachers, but the other only pays half of that amount. I think the attitude of local politicians is also important here. But, yeah, in some very short time, that support was there. Could it continue in the same way and in what form, it is difficult to say. I think, like Mailisk, that this was certainly not the last debate on this issue in the Committee on Culture, and we will come back to the form in which the increase in the pay of kindergarten teachers could be supported. I think this debate will continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U45	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U46	Madam President! Honourable waitress! I want to be more specific. You indicated in your report that there was only one opinion, the Ministry of Education and Research. But was there an opinion of the municipalities, the opinion of rural municipalities or the opinion of the urban community? Have local governments formulated their opinion on this draft or your decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U47	This was not discussed in the Commission. So I have no information that local authorities have assessed this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U48	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-22_U49	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, You certainly know this answer from your previous work experience. When could government and coalition come to the pay of kindergarten teachers and the whole subject?
