ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 11th working week. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. It is not recommended to hand over any drafts or requests for information. Let's go to the messages. On Wednesday, 11 December, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Minister for Defence Urmas Reinsalu, Minister for Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo and Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 81 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 20 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the third reading of the Bill 480 on the Amendment of the Law on the Foundations of the Property Reform of the Republic of Estonia, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, and related amendments to other laws. Do you want to open negotiations? Please, on behalf of the Heimar Lenk Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U3	Ladies and gentlemen, The bill of 480 seems at first sight to be an innocent piece of paper here he is, short, on one page. In reality, he adds to the population of the Republic of Estonia a number of unhappy new tenants who are being evicted from their previous homes and who are forced to search for new housing. The draft law is cleverly drafted because all the tragedy it entails is hidden in a ministerial regulation. This amends Regulation No 161 of 1993, which gives new substance to the law on the basis of the property reform. The Regulation amends the regulation of § 17 (5) and thus gives the possibility to recover houses even to the dead, by the way. Up to now, Hitler's invitation to Germany for the descendants of migrants whose great-grandparents received compensation from the German state for the property abandoned in Estonia was not returned. Now it will be done according to a simple scheme: compensation must be paid back to the state and, if it is done, the house can be returned. What's the tragedy? I'll give you an example from Nõmme. The resident of a double wooden house on one Forest Street is still in court. 14 years ago, the court ruled that the property would not be returned to the descendants of the owners who received the compensation, and it remained for the people who lived there. During the Soviet period, they had maintained the house for half a century, overhauled the building, installed water and electricity, etc. In the last 14 years, when they knew that the house would remain for them, the building was given a modern look, but now, please, give away the dwelling because the government decided to change the law. I ask: what will this house cost as a result of repairs and renovations carried out in 70 years now? The compensation paid for a house after war is, according to experts, about 20 times less than the current high cost, but still we return the house to foreigners by sending our own citizens to live under the tree. What is also important is that we have not been able to adopt any law or provision in this Chamber for 22 years to help tenants who have been deprived of their homes receive any state support so that they can start acquiring new housing. At present, they have to buy new housing at market prices, so that the right remote people living in Germany do not know whose relatives or their representatives or brokers would get a expensive house. By adopting today's draft law, the unjust 22-year property reform will come to an end because all the assets have been shared. There are a few more houses left to follow. The irony of fate, but it's happening on the International Human Rights Day. In 22 years, the Estonian state has failed to respect one human right, the right to its home. He hasn't been able to guarantee it to his citizens. This obligation has not been fulfilled with regard to forced tenants. At the same time, this morning I heard on the news radio how people sitting in our hall also said that they were hurting their hearts because of the good living conditions of refugees who arrived here. The entire property reform brought nearly 100,000 Estonians to the house of the accident, over 20,000 families were expelled from their homes. I can imagine how, years later, historians will sit in the library and read the verbatim report of the Riigikogu today, but it was a terrible time, Estonians themselves drove Estonians out of their homes and gave their houses to the Germans! There is no way that I and my compatriots from the Estonian Centre Party can support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U4	Thank you very much. Any more calls? Kaja Kallas on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I was moved by the desire to come here to say that I have read this law with the annexes and I want to confirm that this intimidation, as Mr Lenk has just done here, is not appropriate. This law does not talk about anything that Mr Lenk said very strongly when he spoke. Together with this law, regulations are indeed provided for. The regulations are issued by the executive and MEPs can ask questions about them and draw attention to them during parliamentary scrutiny, if there are errors inside, but the regulations do not create any additional rights for the executive. This law does not create the rights that Mr Lenk mentioned here, and no harm to anyone either. We certainly need to keep an eye on these regulations, and we can all do that, but this law could still be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U6	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. This bill requires a majority of the votes of the Riigikogu. The commission's proposal was for a final vote of 480 on the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, before the final vote, we will do a presence check. 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Act on the Foundations of the Property Reform of the Republic of Estonia and, in connection with this, the draft Act on the Amendment of Other Acts 480. Please take a stand and vote. 58 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 21 against and 2 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U7	We are going to the next item on the agenda today, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act and the Accounting Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation by Mr Remo Holsmer, Member of the Monetary Commission of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you the second reading of the draft amending the VAT Act with its original title. I will give an overview of the discussions between the first and second readings in the committee, the changes made and perhaps a little bit of the future, how both the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Chamber of the Riigikogu could deal with the VAT Act in the new year. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 25 September 2013 and the first reading took place on 23 October. The main objective is to reduce tax fraud. To this end, two types of changes were proposed: firstly, limiting the deduction of VAT paid on the purchase of passenger cars and on the purchase of goods and services for passenger cars; and secondly, introducing a requirement to submit an annex to the VAT return. It shall record the invoices of buyers and sellers if the total amount of these invoices by each transaction partner is at least EUR 1000 excluding VAT. In order to discuss the draft with business umbrella organisations, the Committee on Monetary Affairs held a public meeting on 7 November; the Commission itself discussed the draft at its meetings on 2 and 21 November and on 3 and 9 December. At its meeting on 21 November, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided that the provisions intended to limit the deduction of input VAT on the purchase of passenger cars and the purchase of goods and services for their use were deleted from the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U9	Ladies and gentlemen, there is too much buzz in the hall. Remo Holsmer, please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U10	Thank you. The Committee on Monetary Affairs considered that this regulation needed more in-depth analysis. Issues related to the requirement for an annex to the VAT return were also discussed at the same meeting. The following topics were discussed at length. First, the optimal size of the transaction partner-based limit. The Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed whether this would burden businesses less in the transition to a new regulation if the threshold based on the transaction partner were higher than the EUR 1000 proposed in the draft. According to the explanation provided by the Tax and Customs Board and the representatives of the initiators, the administrative burden would be the least if all invoices had to be declared without an amount limit. However, any set of amounts would entail an obligation to identify the amounts concerned, which would increase the administrative burden, but the costs of introducing the system would not be reduced much, since, regardless of the size of the threshold, there must be a capacity to identify whether or not transactions have been carried out above the threshold. However, an increase in the threshold would make the measure less effective and would equally affect the expected financial impact on the revenue of the state budget. If the EUR 1000 threshold for declaring the information of trading partners were to apply, it would be estimated to provide an overview of 60% of transactions between companies. This represents 99% of the total amount of all transactions. If this limit were to be raised from EUR 1000, the VAT control innovation would, according to the Tax and Customs Board, remove its point of view and not effectively combat VAT fraud. Secondly, the security of the tax administration's information system. Data protection issues were also raised several times in the Commission. It was explained to us that access to data is restricted to legitimate purposes. In carrying out the specific task assigned to it, the availability of data across the positions of the Tax and Customs Board has been made different. Data handling is verifiable, i.e. each query retains a log file and is subject to regular monitoring.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U11	From last year, automatic checks will be carried out to identify potential risk areas and abuses. During the development of the new development, an external audit is also commissioned to assess the security of the new system. Thirdly, the expected impact on the revenue of the state budget. The representative of the Tax and Customs Board explained on which basis the expected impact on the revenue of the state budget has been found. I recall that EUR 5 million will be expected for 2014 thanks to the implementation of this measure. The draft is due to enter into force on 1 July 2014. The impact assessment was based on the following factors: the total amount of VAT losses caused by the type of activity resulting from VAT losses, the proportion of fraud that can be directly affected by the introduction of an annex to the VAT return and the impact of the implementation of the new system on the tax behaviour of many operators. The calculation itself is based on the size of the VAT hole, which is estimated at EUR 260-270 million. More detailed information on the declaration of VAT pursues two main objectives: concealing the sales turnover of transactions must be made more difficult and VAT fraud schemes must be seen more quickly. This means that the state can react more quickly to prevent fraud. 44% of the tax hole is generated by withholding turnover. If the loss of turnover was taken as a basis of around EUR 120 million and it was based on the fact that nearly three quarters of the transactions are made between unrelated parties, and the experience gained so far that the VAT measure would improve tax behaviour by almost 40%, then the expected effect of introducing an additional VAT return was EUR 32 million per year. Fourthly, the impact on the administrative burden on economic operators and the possible costs involved. The proposed change implies an obligation to provide the Tax and Customs Board with information on sales and purchase invoices above the transaction partner-specific threshold. There will, in principle, be four options for transmitting data to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. First, the machine-machine interface, i.e. the company sends the necessary data from the accounting programme; second, loading the file in XML and CSV format at the e-Tax Board; third, filling in the so-called "screen" form at the e-Tax Board and fourth, the possibility of submitting in paper form remains. The machine-machine interface is a technical solution where, according to the author of the draft proposal for a special cost increase for companies using standard accounting software solutions, no specific cost increase is involved. The cost increases for those who use older versions of the software and should acquire an updated version. It can be assumed that the six-month transitional period prior to the entry into force of the Act constitutes a sufficient buffer for the completion of developments and the necessary expenditure. The Tax and Customs Board has involved software manufacturers and e-invoice service providers in developing the transaction information form. The aim is to develop a form which does not lead to the need for programme producers to develop complex solutions, and additional manual processing must also be excluded. The Tax and Customs Board will develop technical specifications by the end of 2013. The development of the programme usually takes about one month. As I have already mentioned, the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting yesterday. The Committee on Monetary Affairs was approached by the major retail chains operating in Estonia and the Estonian Merchants Association, who asked for the draft amendments to be postponed by six months. This is due to the cost of IT developments and the fact that their implementation takes time. The Estonian Merchants Association has proposed, when meeting representatives of the tax authorities and the Ministry of Finance, that they be temporarily authorised to submit the purchase invoices included in the VAT return in aggregate by suppliers. The transitional period would allow them to align their IT systems at a later stage, while comparisons can be made between partners in transactions. When determining the difference, the tax authority does not see which invoice is the difference, but this can be established by contacting the company if necessary. Taking this proposal into account may lead to an increase in the administrative burden on businesses, but they are aware of it and certainly do not object to this change. The Committee on Monetary Affairs wants to analyse this issue further in the near future, and if it finds the majority of the Commission's support, we propose to supplement the provisions implementing the VAT Act and give taxable persons the opportunity to submit invoices until 31 December 2015 on the basis of the transaction partner attached to the VAT return. Information is currently provided on an invoice basis, but if the Commission finds it and the Riigikogu supports it, it will be possible to submit it in aggregate by transaction partners in the future. Due to the transitional provision, taxable persons who need it would have sufficient time to develop further developments in the VAT return. Therefore, we do not consider it necessary to postpone by half a year all amendments to the VAT law, but to resolve the issue of the aggregation of purchasing invoices by setting a transitional period if necessary. Once again, the Committee on Monetary Affairs will come back to this issue in the new year, and I hope that we will also get to the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu with our proposals. Now a little about whether the obligation to complete the VAT return supplement is in accordance with the Constitution. The Committee on Monetary Affairs requested clarification from the initiator of the draft, who considered that the proposed regulation was compatible with the Constitution. There are barriers to business freedom, but this is proportionate. The amendments serve the general public interest. VAT fraud is detrimental to the interests of law-abiding companies, as they are forced to compete with undertakings which, by not paying VAT, gain an illegal competitive advantage. The draft is therefore a need to protect the freedom to conduct a business. I am also talking about the differences in the presentation of the VAT return supplement for the obligation of confidentiality arising from special laws. At its meeting on 3 December this year, the Committee on Monetary Affairs addressed the issues raised and the proposals made in the letters of the Estonian Bar Association, the Chamber of Notaries, the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators and the Chamber of the Service Economy and maintained the view that no further amendments would be tabled. Lawyers, notaries, doctors, patent attorneys and auditors are not exempted from submitting an annex to the VAT return pursuant to the draft, but do not declare there the information which has become known to them in connection with their professional and professional activities. In the Annex to the VAT return, the details of invoices received when purchasing goods and services shall be declared if the total amount of invoices or invoices, excluding VAT, is at least EUR 1000 per transaction partner during the tax period. For example, if a notary office buys office furniture, it has to be declared in an annex to the declaration if the invoice exceeds EUR 1000. The Finance Committee also addressed the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu for an opinion on the so-called liberal professions. The opinion received explains that possible inconsistencies can be resolved according to the principle of interpretation of the law: the general rule, namely the VAT law, does not apply to a part which is inconsistent with a special rule, such as the Bar Act. For the sake of clarity, it should be stated that the instructions for filling in the form of the VAT return supplement should contain an appropriate explanation, for example, in the following wording: 'Any person subject to the obligation of professional or professional secrecy on the basis of an act shall not provide information covered by the obligation of professional or professional secrecy without reservation in the annex to the VAT return. " We therefore hope to resolve this potential contradiction through the VAT return's compliance manual. Now for the amendments. By the deadline of the amendments, i.e. 6 November, the members of the Riigikogu, the committees and the political groups did not submit proposals. The Committee on Finance has decided to table five amendments, of which proposals No. 2 to 4 have been tabled in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. Under Amendment 1, the provisions designed to limit the deduction of VAT paid on the purchase of passenger cars and goods and services for their use are deleted from the draft. Amendment 2 specifies that the person representing the VAT group will submit the VAT return supplements per group member. Amendment 3 requires the VAT return to be submitted electronically even if more than five invoices are shown in the annex to the VAT return. Amendment 4 specifies that the annex to the VAT return does not declare sales to a natural person other than a self-employed person. Amendment 5 concerns the Accounting Act. In the data required by the Accounting Act for the original document, the requirement of the address of the parties to the transaction is replaced by the registration or personal identification code of the parties to the transaction. This is necessary because the data of the transaction partners declared in the Annex to the VAT return are compared through the registration and identity codes. This last amendment was also addressed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs at its meeting yesterday. The possible contradiction between Article 26 of the VAT Act and the VAT Directive of the European Union has also been referred to by the Estonian Taxpayers' Association in its letter yesterday. On this contradiction, the initiator of the draft, or the Ministry of Finance, has the following to say: 'I refer to the position of the Ministry of Finance on this matter. The amendment to Paragraph 7 (1) (6) of the Accounting Act is not contrary to the VAT Directive 2006/112/EC. Paragraph 7 of the Accounting Act lays down the requirements for the original accounting document. Article 226 of the VAT Directive lists invoice requirements. The requirements of the Accounting Act apply domestically to all Estonian accounting companies and are broader than the requirements of the VAT Directive. The VAT Directive regulates the principles of VAT and concerns the taxable person. In addition to companies, municipalities and public entities, the Accounting Act must be complied with by all accounting officers. As regards the VAT Directive, the Ministry of Finance, as the initiator of the draft, states that it is clear that neither the VAT return form nor Section 27 of the VAT Act contradicts the VAT Directive. Article 250 (1) of the Directive requires each taxable person to submit a VAT return setting out all the necessary information for calculating the tax which has become chargeable and the deductions to be made, including the total value of the transactions relating to that tax and deductions and the amount of the exempt transactions necessary to establish the tax base. The Directive does not limit the Member States to asking for VAT return data. Countries have very different declarations. For example, Latvia is asking for billing data and this has not created a problem at European level. And finally, procedural decisions. The Committee on Finance decided to submit the draft to second reading by 10 December this year and to propose that the second reading be completed. Let it be said once again that the Committee on Monetary Affairs is ready to discuss the implementation problems related to the electronic annex to the VAT return also in the new year, but it is now proposed to conclude the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U12	Sorry, performer! Ladies and gentlemen, there is so much noise in this Chamber that it is simply not possible for those who wish to listen. If you want a discussion, it's possible after the presentation. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U13	Thank you very much. You have questions. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U14	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! It has been said here today that this will, to a greater or lesser extent, involve an additional burden on businesses. But I'm asking about the burden on the Tax and Customs Board. We have read about large-scale redundancies in the Tax and Customs Board, but certainly the review of these thousands of declarations is a substantial work. Has there been any talk in the Commission about how high the level of automation this activity is going to take place and is the tax administration really ready for this? In order not to create a situation in which data are received but, as they say, pro forma and no one essentially investigates them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U15	The entire checking of invoices is based on a risk analysis. The fact that both purchase and sales invoices are assembled does not mean that all invoices will be automatically checked. It's not physically possible. For example, in the Tallinn Kaubamaja group, 1.5 million invoices are exchanged annually and it is not physically feasible that all invoices are checked. The control is based on a risk analysis and the tax administration also directs resources to identify and control potential risk points when it is effective. I believe that this law will give the tax administration a new lever and will be able to do this work effectively enough with its staff from the middle of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U16	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Did you discuss declaring these 1000-euro bills in the Commission? And if not, what is your own view of whether the country really needs to create such a large database of business-to-business settlement systems? In my opinion, that is questionable. In order to catch tax criminals, all businesses will have to bear the extra burden. As we heard from the news yesterday, the IRS has laid off a lot of people. They could have dealt with tax criminals, and now we are going to demand additional work from all economic operators. Do you think the Tax and Customs Board needs such a system?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U18	The Tax and Customs Board will certainly use a large part of its resources to combat tax fraud. Once again, this database, which is created at the Tax and Customs Board, will not be fully under control at all times. As far as security is concerned, here I can rely on the words of Marek Helmi that the system is even safer than the Swedbank information system. As I said in my report, every query remains a log file. If there are unsubstantiated queries, I understand that you are referring to the fact that perhaps this database can be misused in some way, that these data may be exported from the tax administration, then it will come out. The Director General of the Tax and Customs Board has confirmed that this will be the information and database that meets the highest security standards. Once again, I'm not going to check all the bills, all the checks are going to be based on a risk analysis. If the system reveals some kind of error anywhere, it's going to go "red," then they're just gonna start checking the bills.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U19	Thank you. Please, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Did you discuss the possibility, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, that only those companies who charge VAT back would submit an annex to the VAT return?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U21	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U22	It was a discussion. The representatives of the tax administration introduced statistics on how many companies are controlled at all. In fact, the IRS is currently able to control 3% of invoices. Once again, the aim of this draft is to give the tax administration the opportunity to check the behaviour of buyers and sellers if it is shown that there is a deliberate intention to go out on VAT fraud.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U23	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! In the press, business organisations have complained about this additional administrative cost. Are the software updates related to the machine-machine interface that you spoke about in the report made at the expense of the state or do entrepreneurs have to pay for them? And second, has the initiator thought about how to prevent companies from having a very large number of 999-euro bills now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U24	I'm gonna start with the second question. There is no way to rule out the possible fraud you are referring to, talking about the 999-euro accounts. As I said in my report, in terms of administrative burden, it would be the easiest thing for companies to submit all their invoices. Then we shouldn't have to select anything. Could the limit be EUR 1000 or EUR 5000? In the meantime, there was a discussion that maybe we could raise that line. The administrative burden would then be much lower. As far as software development is concerned, the Tax and Customs Board will prepare the simplest possible solution and businesses will have to combine it with their accounting programme. This is the cost of changing the accounting programme they really need to make. Larger companies and chains will certainly have a bigger exit, with a lot of work to innovate from the smaller ones, and too much extra costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U25	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U26	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! You're the lead on this bill. Do you sense that the origin of this bill is, to some extent, a reminder of the origin of the provisions relating to VAT on cars? The new law would regulate the business environment and could really lead to more fair competition, but the bill was born in a bit of a hurry. This can be seen from the reaction of stakeholders in recent weeks, and there have been many questions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We have received a lot of answers to these questions, but the reaction has really been painful. To be honest, there has also been much discussion in the IRL Group. Do you think we're actually doing somebody's work today?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U27	I think that if the aim of amending the law is to combat tax fraud and reduce the tax gap, processing such a bill cannot go painlessly, as if through a smooth pipe. It is quite natural that there have been a lot of questions both in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and in the political groups. The new law would enter into force on 1 July 2014 and there will be a further six months. I very much hope that all technical issues, especially software development, will be resolved during this period and the transition will be quite painless.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U28	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U29	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Knowing the large share of the shadow economy, I cannot in any way rejoice at the large redundancies in the tax administration. Is this not the case for a large part of the administrative burden from the state to private operators who will have to submit additional declarations? How much will it cost taxpayers and how much does the country expect to receive additional money through this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U30	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U31	There was no mention of the internal organisation of the Tax and Customs Board and the number of employees in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Which does not mean that this issue cannot come to the agenda in the future. But I guess the best answer to that is either the Minister of Finance or the Director-General of the Tax and Customs Board. As far as budget revenue is concerned, an additional EUR 15 million is expected for the next year's state budget when this specific legislative amendment is implemented. But this is, of course, a half-year estimate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U32	Thank you. I have two questions. It's not about not declaring. This new system will start to compare the data declared. The problem is not paying taxes, which I don't think comes out of the database. Has the Tax and Customs Board described how big they think this problem is? If we declare it as businesses are now declaring it, will the machinery in the future discover some huge violations? The second question is as follows: I expect most entrepreneurs in Estonia to be honest and the state should collect as little information as possible and as much as necessary. It seems to me that the collection of this database is clearly crossing the line. Did the Commission come to a different conclusion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U33	Thank you. Please, Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U34	VAT losses amount to EUR 200 million per year, a total of 400000 reimbursement claims per year, of which the state is currently able to control 3%. Last year, on the basis of the same 3% verification, the tax office did not return EUR 25 million. Your question was about tax fraud. The proposed change will, above all, have a preventive effect in such a way that there may be a light flashing from the tax administration when it organises fraud. You could get in the radar. This is the main objective that the tax administration has wished for this change and the proposal has finally reached the Chamber of the Riigikogu before you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U35	Thank you, President of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, Many entrepreneurs are relatively pessimistic about this bill. It can be very difficult to get these EUR 15 million. The reason for this is that they call this carousel-type VAT fraud scheme a move to other European countries, particularly Latvia. Did you discuss this in the Commission? If that is true, it requires the cooperation of our tax administration with those of other European countries. Was that a question of what to do and what to comfort these entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U36	Thank you. Please, Siim Kabrits, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U37	The various types of VAT fraud were not discussed in detail by the Commission. The creation of the carousel fraud that you have referred to is one of the incentives to make this change, but one must try to detect these frauds. The tax office cooperates with the tax administrations of Latvia, Lithuania and all other countries around it, it is a consistent process. The Commission did not deal with this separately, but it has, of course, turned out to be working together on cross-border trade. It's part of the IRS' day-to-day work.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Did the group mention what happens if companies declare their intra-European sales purchases in Intrastat and one party declares, the other half does not declare? Who's in charge? When we met a representative of the tax administration, he claimed that the hole that arises in intra-European purchases and sales is quite large. It's just the fact that the hole is big. Couldn't it be that this super-data base is going to work and the fact that the hole is big again, but there's nothing to do? The hole's still gonna be big.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U39	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U40	This issue was not specifically raised at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But if we look at intra-Community turnover and imported goods, for example, in the case of cars, the IRS has taken a very strict line and set aside dozens of cars. You can read it in the papers of the last few weeks. I'm sure there's some control going on here. However, if you answer your question very specifically, the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not address this issue at its meetings.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U41	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Do you agree with the argument that most companies are basically tax abiding? True, not everything is. Some are, in fact, tax criminals who plunder sheep's fur. To catch these fraudsters, honest entrepreneurs maintain tax administrations with more than 1000 employees. Don't you think that's enough? Do we have to impose additional administrative burdens on our companies, which are already in competition with difficulties across Europe in the open market? In addition to the tax administration with tax money, they also have to fill in huge databases, and we do not even know at first what these databases are, what exactly will this VAT return supplement be and what administrative burden it will impose on businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U42	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U43	Thank you. I have identified three questions. Firstly, can it be assumed that entrepreneurs in the Republic of Estonia are honest. Yeah, I think so. Secondly, you claim that innovation will entail a one-off cost for companies to transmit data. Yes, neither in the Commission nor in this Chamber, I believe, have any illusions that this will not happen. In the perspective, as I have already said, there is an opportunity to present these data using the so-called machine interface, in the Excel file and also on paper. Once this one-off cost is made, everything will start running automatically in the future and no additional fixed costs will arise. Third, you asked about the database, so I guess you meant the VAT return supplement form. This form is entirely there. As far as I know, this has been out for two weeks on the website of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board and it should also be on the Riigikogu's web with this particular draft. This appendix form exists. It can be improved, but it's not right to say it isn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Estonia has still boasted about its bureaucracy-free business environment, but now it seems that only registration is easy and bureaucracy-free for us, but it will get more complicated in the future. You have just said that Latvia has the same order, and it has not come to the detriment of Latvia. But has it benefited Latvia? How much have they won? And what is the practice of other countries, precisely those with which we have active trade relations ♪ Finland, Sweden, other neighbouring countries? How do other countries solve this problem, and we are not now in a bad light with our business environment compared to other countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U45	I think that the strength of the business environment is also guaranteed by the taxes paid honestly. This change certainly serves this purpose, so that fair competition does not suffer. Indeed, in the case of Latvia, it should be clarified how much the country has won in implementing this system. These figures were not mentioned in the Committee on Finance and, at least, they have not been available to me so far. However, I will try to give you a separate answer on how much additional revenue has been generated by the implementation of the system in Latvia and what were the problems with the transition to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U46	Thank you. Please, Echo Kreisman!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U47	Thank you, President of the sitting. My question was actually taken away by Neeme the Great, but I would specify that. In Latvia, this system works, but the results, I understand, are not known. But does our tax administration currently use this Latvian database? After all, tax fraud transactions are predominantly cross-border and particularly in trade with Latvia. Were you discussing this at the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U48	In particular, the form in which the Estonian Tax and Customs Board exchange information with its Latvian colleagues was not dealt with in the committee. But I note to myself that the issue of cooperation with Latvia definitely needs an answer. I'll give it to you separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U49	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U50	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! You stated that the cost of updating the software would be borne by the operators. Has the Commission discussed that since the State receives an additional income of EEK 30 million, perhaps it would make sense to spend a small part of it on public procurement? The companies that make business software, we only have a handful. Otherwise, there will be a situation where entrepreneurs are forced to buy this software upgrade, but a handful of companies that produce this program can charge any price. If it were public procurement, it would be impossible to argue against the fact that operators would have to incur costs in connection with this transfer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U51	There are, as you said, a handful of software developers, but the other way around is at least 20. I know that during the initiation phase, the Ministry of Finance was thinking about taking the cost to the state. At the moment, I do not know whether such support will materialise. This question also arose in the Commission, and I will definitely check it out. Thank you for pointing out.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U52	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U53	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! As this bill becomes a law, businesses will have an increase in bureaucracy, but thanks to the new system, a large part of the fraud will eventually come out. As I understand it, all the work will be done by the machines in the future, but did the Commission mention that, in recent years, as the number of IRS reviews and other staff has decreased, new people must now be employed? The machine brings out frauds, but the managers of companies must be dealt with by the reviewers. Now we know that there are problems with many companies trading across borders, but our hands just don't reach them, there aren't enough people. Should the IRS hire more officers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U54	Thank you. Please, Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U55	First of all, the increase in bureaucracy. Yes, one-off software development is needed to transfer the system to the machine-machine interface. This is if this option is chosen. From now on, there will certainly be no more bureaucracy. We did not discuss the number of employees of the tax administration when discussing the draft. It is well known that Marek Helmi's goal is to make the IRS work more effectively. Some people wanted to leave the IRS because of poor wages, and one of the goals of the changes is certainly to pay good salaries to good employees to keep people working in the IRS. Should the IRS hire more staff in the future? I think it's next year's question. If this is necessary for the implementation of the system, then this is certainly also a question for the Riigikogu, which must approve the tax administration's budget. When people need to be taken up, both the Committee on Monetary Affairs and other members of the Riigikogu are, of course, ready for discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U56	Thank you. Good waitress! It reminds me of the corrupt Soviet military system around the EUR 1000 bill, where a unit was punished for one man's error. According to you, most entrepreneurs are honest, why do they have to suffer for those who break the law? Have you discussed that there are other, more intelligent ways of collecting taxes and avoiding tax fraud? How does this bill go with your liberal worldview?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U57	I really believe that most Estonian entrepreneurs are honest, and it is also in the interests of such entrepreneurs that there is fair competition, that various tax frauds in business do not distort competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U58	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U59	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Seeing that your coalition partner, IRL, doesn't like this bill, I ask you this. If this draft does not become a law, will next year's state budget be 15 million euros short? Is it planned in there?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U60	The Committee on Finance has proposed that the second reading of the draft be discontinued. Among other things, the Finance Committee has members of the IRL. You think the members of the IRL Group are asking a lot about the draft and you see their fear behind it. I don't share that view. As I said, the whole process of innovation cannot be painless, and the question being asked is perfectly normal in the work of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U61	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Today we have the task of completing the second reading, that was the Commission's decision. And by tomorrow, we have a proposal for adoption when the second reading is finished. This means that the bill is, like, all decided, and it is the ideal way to combat tax fraud. At the same time, at the end of your speech, the sentence said that the Commission would be in favour of this being discussed next year as soon as January, to which only a few weeks have left, will come back to the subject. This assumes that there are enough weaknesses in the draft and, in fact, there is still room to deal with it. Look at what an interesting debate we've had here! Why adopt a law that will have to be retaken in a month's time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U63	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U64	Yes, I said that the Committee on Monetary Affairs, at least some of its members, is ready to discuss further on the implementing side of the draft. That it is considered necessary to achieve a change in the law, we can now predict, not necessarily assume. Once again, the Committee on Monetary Affairs is open for debate. Five or six letters have been received from various interest groups in a good way from the interest groups in recent days. I believe it is quite appropriate to discuss them in the new year. Time will indicate whether we will finally come to the amendment of the law. This is just an opportunity right now, not an obligation or a sure assumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U65	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I come back to basic VAT fraud. In practice, it is known that a large part of them have a cross-border background, i.e. VAT fraud is committed when goods move from one country to another or to another. Has there been any discussion in the Committee on Monetary Affairs about whether this particular measure will have any impact on this vast majority of VAT fraud or whether it will only have a small local impact in mind? What could prevent the risk of major VAT fraud in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U66	I have already given an example of imported cars and I am referring to this once again. The Tax Administration has a very clear plan, as well as measures on how companies implementing VAT fraud for the sale of cars can be drawn up. This work has now been taken very seriously by the tax administration, and I believe that they will also continue to work to prevent cross-border fraud that you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U67	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U68	Good waitress! The Taxpayers' Association has sent a letter to the Monetary Commission saying that the draft could be contrary to the VAT Directive of the European Union. The Directive lists what can be asked about the invoice. In essence, the Ministry of Finance notes that the VAT Directive only regulates it in the light of the document on which the VAT calculation is based; it does not generally refer to the invoice requirements. At the same time, in the opinion sent to us, the Ministry of Finance acknowledges that the registration code is really only needed to complete the annex to the VAT return. How do you feel about the problem of actually requiring this registration code with regard to VAT?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U69	As I pointed out in my speech, the Ministry of Finance does not see this contradiction as acute. I think that one of the issues of the future debate is whether the hallmark under which the tax office sums up the purchase and sales invoice must necessarily be the register code. This is actually the subject of a dispute with regard to the amendment of the Accounting Act, which we have also submitted for a second reading. This should certainly be further analysed and done by the tax authorities. Perhaps this identifier does not necessarily have to be a registration code. In answer to the question of a contradiction with the EU directive, however, I have received an additional explanation this morning from the Ministry of Finance. On behalf of the initiator, it is confirmed that there is no conflict between the VAT Directive and its draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U70	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U71	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! According to the Head of the Tax Administration, there were four options on the table to achieve a better collection of VAT. Were the other three options discussed in your committee, and when discussed, what was the basis for the selection of what is on this table today as a draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U72	The bill was presented to us in exactly the form he is on the table. There were no options. It was an option, and we've been working and working on it. Now it's in front of you in this big hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U73	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U74	Thank you, Madam President. Today, two questions have been answered in half. I'll check them out just in case. First of all, my first question was not explained by the practice of our main trading partners in combating VAT fraud. I mean Finland and Sweden. Do we know anything about this or how we stand out from them? Secondly, the question of Tarmo Tamme was not answered as to whether this EUR 15 million was planned for next year's state budget. So, if the bill gets caught up somehow, is the amount missing from the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U75	With regard to the practice of combating tax fraud in the countries around us, I would like to provide you with specific information. I'm asking the IRS. I can't explain it in detail right now. But you will certainly receive this information, as well as the information about trade with Latvia, which you asked about in your first question. These data are fixed, and I'll be sure to transmit them to you. As far as the state budget is concerned, the explanatory memorandum to the draft will give you the answer: EUR 15 million is planned for next year's budget due to additional VAT receipts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U76	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U77	Good manager! Honourable waitress! When you answered your speech and questions, you said that the implementing acts concerning the annex to the draft VAT return still need to be discussed with different target groups in January. So I think you're admitting that the bill is a little immature. Do you not think that trust between a state and an entrepreneur is something that can be relied on and is a principle that should be protected?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U78	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U79	I fully agree with the second part of your question on the question of trust between the state and the company is certainly very important. However, as regards the fact that, as I said, there will be some fundamental changes to the VAT return supplement in January, I certainly have not said that. I have said that the form of this annex is up online, that the tax administration has worked hard to draw it up, and that it has done so with business organisations, making it as simple as possible. It's accessible to everyone. I can't tell you if there's gonna be an additional debate in January. It is currently a proposed compromise, a solution that the tax authorities have discussed with both the Ministry and the companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable author of the bill! Did you discuss various VAT frauds with the IRS? What are, in the view of the tax authorities, the most serious problems associated with them? Does the Monetary Commission or the Ministry of Finance plan to make further changes to the law in the near future in order to apprehend the biggest tax fraudsters?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U81	Of course, we have discussed various frauds. We will take the fuel sector, where fraud concerns VAT. These tricks are done across borders. Therefore, the Riigikogu imposed a guarantee claim on fuel companies last year or the year before. This has had a positive impact on the fight against tax fraud and also on the revenue from the budget. You're asking when the IRS will get the biggest tax frauds. I think it's an endless fight, the tax fraud never disappears. But we are trying to reduce their numbers and create an environment that minimises fraud.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U82	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U83	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! You were talking about the 1000 euro limit and that it was discussed whether perhaps all the bills could be billed or set the limit at EUR 5 000. I did not understand why you did not choose this version of all bills, that would be the least bureaucratic and the most reasonable. Then let the IRS get in there. The company clicks one click, sends all the bills to the register, the IRS has the whole picture. Why are we making more bureaucracy? Businesses are now going to have to set their bills at EUR 1 000. Take everything and make your own systems, as you need, why does an entrepreneur have to do everything? Why didn't you decide on all the bills?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U84	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U85	True, as I said in my report, the easiest option would have been for all invoices to be forwarded to the IRS. In particular, no one put such a proposal on the table in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Whether or not to go that way is a question of the future. I can't tell you today if this is definitely a reasonable course. The current draft should be implemented as a law on 1 July next year and after that it would make sense to allow time for the system to be processed. If your proposal becomes topical, we can discuss it in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U86	Thank you. The sad fate of this bill is linked to the fact that the most beloved and respectable member of every family and work collective, i.e. the car, was first assaulted. Secondly, there is a real risk that the tax administration will start accounting. I think it is reasonable that you, as a member of the committee and as a rapporteur for the draft, will also tell the Riigikogu about why the same idea of declaring 1000 euro invoices did not go through in Latvia. What went wrong in there?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U87	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U88	As I have already said in reply to Neeme the Great, I do not have enough detailed information about Latvia to give you an exhaustive answer. As I promised Mr. Big, I'm sure I'll get that information from the IRS, and I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U89	Thank you. I would like to clarify my question about tax fraud. I was referring to the professional bankruptcies who are known to both the tax administration and other parties involved, but the law gives them the opportunity to operate in the current economic space. But here's what I'm asking you. Would it not be possible to simplify the work of small businesses such as hairdressers and other such people in such a way as to send all invoices and cheques to the IRS and the IRS will do the accounting? Maybe you don't need another accountant between them anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U90	Let's not tie everything together! I believe that every entrepreneur still needs his accountant with his specific tasks. It does not seem to be a good solution for the state to start making company accounts. Once again, the aim of this draft is to combat tax fraud. When we are talking about a tax hole of EUR 250 million, I believe that no group will vote against this reduction in this Chamber. It is a matter of measures. As today's debate shows, there are different ideas. I call on you all to think along and put forward proposals. As I said before, we have an endless struggle to discover, as Mr. Arrow said, the biggest tax fraudsters. Unfortunately, IRS leaders also confirm that fraudsters are still one step ahead of the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U91	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U92	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, For some reason we took the example of a small country, Latvia, which is not among the first in the European Union in terms of its economic performance. In countries such as France and the Netherlands, this system does not exist. No draft has raised as many questions in two months as the draft state budget for next year. Where are we in a hurry? Why are we making a law that won't work later?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U93	The first reading of the draft decision took place on 23 October. It's been over a month and a half since then. The government initiated this draft on 25 September. I don't think it's appropriate to blame the rush. However, I would like to emphasise once again that possible amendments and improvements are awaited and that the debate on them will certainly be put on the agenda by the Committee on Monetary Affairs in the new year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U94	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Palts!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U95	After the Social Democratic Disruption in the Ministry of Finance in 2007-2009, Jürgen Ligi, the world's best Minister of Finance, took up office as Minister of Finance. The current problem is, in fact, haste and that the new regulation creates administrative burdens. What would have been the case if this idea had been launched in 2009 and the law had been implemented on 1 January 2011? You believe that the revenue could be EUR 30 million a year. Have the members of the Commission been discussing with each other, of course, not at the hearing, has the failure of Jürgen Ligi caused EUR 90 million in damage to the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U96	First of all, Jürgen Ligi is, as far as I know, the best finance minister in Europe, and before 2007, the world's best finance minister was in office, now sitting here in the second row of Aivar Sõerd. But that's it. As for the damage you have caused in your head, I certainly do not agree that Jürgen Ligi has wished to cause some damage to the budget. I still assume that his aim has been to keep public finances in order and, in pursuing this goal, it is one thing to ensure that the tax environment is stable, but on the other hand, as a result of combating tax fraud, there must be an honest business environment in Estonia, so that fraud does not affect fair competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U97	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U98	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, When I was a teacher, I used to tell my students that if you wanted to ask me something, ask me. If you had a question, it would probably have occurred to others in this class, no one would think you were stupid. The key is to get to the truth. This was a small discussion on the fact that Jürgen Ligi is Europe's best finance minister, Aivar Sõerd, the best in the world. But where would you put Tõnis Palts in this chart?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U99	I'm not giving up these titles, it's some kind of organization. I would not like to make an assessment of Tõnis Palts' work as Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U100	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Let me get this straight. In some sense, either the government or the Ministry of Finance have forced us to do something? If we do not adopt this bill tomorrow before the adoption of the budget, we will not have the right to adopt the state budget. The budget for next year has estimated that these 15 million will be received under this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U102	I wouldn't call it a coercion. The draft state budget is still accompanied by drafts concerning state revenue and expenditure in the following year. They take one step. I don't see much tragedy in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U103	I didn't ask before whether Jürgen Ligi wanted to fight tax fraud or not. I asked that if he had initiated this draft four years ago, we would have received 90 million euros more in the meantime and that prevented him from doing so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U104	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Palts, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U105	Good questioner, you understand very well that I can't answer you about the ideas in Jürgen Ligi's head or not. You must ask him why he has not made one or the other proposal to the Riigikogu before or why he will not bring one or the other proposal to the Riigikogu at all. I'm definitely the wrong recipient.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U106	Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U107	Thank you. I was inspired by a question that sounded like it. If the Ministry of Finance had sent this draft to the Government's round of coordination in 2008, for example, and it would have been discussed in some form in the political groups, would the Reform Party Group have so jealously defended this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U108	Thank you for this hypothetical question. I will answer as I did the previous question. Go back to 2008 and start fantasizing about what the Reform Party Group or the then Minister of Finance Ivari Padar would have done, and what could have become of this draft, this debate will not take us any further. The issues that will be raised are the content of the draft and the implementation of the draft. Questions that could have happened five or eight years ago will not help us in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U109	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Remo Holsmer! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Five proposals have been received to amend the draft. Let's go through them. All amendments have come from the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Amendment 1, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 2, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 3, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 4, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 5, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 493. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U110	Our third item today is the second reading of the Social Affairs Committee's draft law amending the Employment Services and Benefits Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act and the State Family Benefits Act 517. I would like a presentation by Maret Maripuu, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the Act amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act and the State Family Benefits Act 517 was completed on 15 November. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 19 November 2013. No amendments were tabled within this deadline. The Committee on Social Affairs convened a draft of 517 for discussion and preparation for second reading on 2 December. At this meeting, the Commission decided to make one amendment and then allow me to present it. Under the current Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, a full-time student is counted as unemployed if he or she has worked for 180 days. According to § 9 (2) of the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, less labour market services are provided to a full-time unemployed person than to other unemployed persons. The distinction is based on the fact that a person is studying and not all services such as training or practice need to be provided to him or her. If the amendment had not been tabled, this would mean that the full-time unemployed would be entitled to three labour market services, while the unemployed in in inpatient education would be entitled to all labour market services. The purpose of the draft law is to restore the former situation that existed before 1 September 2013. The draft amends the conditions for the registration of a person who is studying as unemployed, as a result of changes in forms of study in vocational training. According to the bill, a person who is studying in full-time education or in in-service vocational education and training who has worked for 180 days is counted as unemployed. It is therefore necessary to amend the second sentence of Article 9 (2) of the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, which sets out which labour market services are provided for the unemployed who are studying in fixed vocational training. Since full-time vocational training was replaced by inpatient training, it is also necessary to supplement the second sentence of § 9 (2) of the Employment Services and Benefits Act after the word 'full-time' with the words 'or in in-service training'. As a result of the amendment, people studying in full-time education and vocational training will be treated equally. The commission made the following procedural decisions and proposals: to put the draft on the Riigikogu agenda for second reading on 10 December and to propose that the second reading be stopped. The Commission also decided that, should the second reading of the draft be completed, the third reading of the draft would take place on 12 December. All decisions were made in full agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U112	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Maret Maripuu! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The Committee on Social Affairs has tabled one amendment to this draft. Let's go through it. Amendment 1, the proposal of the commission is to take this fully into account. The amendment has been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 517. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U113	The fourth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Land Reform Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, vice-chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U114	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, In order to prepare for the second reading of the draft law amending the Land Reform Act and other laws, the Commission has sat together twice on 3 and 5 December. Both meetings were attended by representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Land Administration. At the meeting on 3 December, the proposals of the Land Administration contained in the letter from the Ministry of the Environment were discussed and the problems raised were found to require an urgent solution. It was considered whether to complete this draft or to initiate a separate draft on the basis of these proposals. The Commission decided to complete this draft and to formulate its amendments for the next meeting. At its meeting on 5 December, the Commission decided to include five amendments on the list of amendments, one of which specifies the original text of the draft and four are the result of the proposals of the Land Administration contained in the letter from the Ministry of the Environment. On this draft, we can say today that for the first reading in this hall we came with a button and, for the second reading, we have now sewed the jacket. First of all, we discussed that the taxes on privatized countries should be better collected and a programme should be needed to enable all taxpayers to see what their financial commitment is right now. During the debate on the draft proposal, it became clear that certain points still need to be included in the law in order to speed up the completion of the land reform. One important point is that in the coming years the Estonian state can start a very large investment related to the construction of the Rail Baltic railway route. Under this route are several and several state-owned countries, which, at the same time, have been leased and for which the lessees have the right to privatise them. In order not to create a situation where we are now selling land cheaply, even with a post-payment, to a company or a private person, and in a year's time, the state would start buying back land, which would cause serious damage to the state, we proposed amendments on the proposal of the Ministry of the Environment and the Land Administration. Another thing that has certainly hindered land reform is that the right to privatise many countries has been granted through building rights, or building permits, which have not been used in the last 20 years. The amendments include the right of the county governor to review these places. Unless construction has begun, there is no right to privatise the land for use around the "future building." Since there are a number of very important amendments to this law, the Commission made three consensual decisions: firstly, to put draft 516 on the Riigikogu's agenda today; secondly, to propose to suspend the second reading of draft 516; thirdly, to propose to set the deadline for amendments to draft 516 on Thursday 12 December at 10 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U115	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Aivar Chef! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The Committee on Rural Affairs has proposed five amendments to this draft law. Let's go through them. Amendment 1, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 2, take full account. Amendment 3, take full account. Amendment 4, take full account. Amendment 5, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to interrupt the second reading of draft 516. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 516 amendments. 12 December at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U116	Our fifth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Civil Service Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu member Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U117	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you the law amending the Civil Service Act. The Civil Service Act is amended and supplemented as follows: Paragraph 60 (5) is amended and supplemented by the following wording: "An official exempt from service is prohibited: (1) within one year of the date of the release, to become associated within the meaning of subsections 7 (1) (2) and 7 (3) of the Anti-corruption Act with a private legal person who has been directly or permanently supervised during the last year; (2) within one year of the day of the release, to take up a position elected or appointed by a legal person governed by public law, directly or permanently supervised during the last year. ' We can read from the explanatory memorandum that the amendment adds a restriction which prohibits the work of a dismissed official in a position chosen or appointed by a legal person governed by public law, which he has directly or permanently supervised during the last year. Now the draft content and comparative analysis. In autumn 2009, draft Civil Service Act 538 was discussed. At the time, an issue was raised concerning the restrictions on the activities of rural elders. It was pointed out that, according to the law, an exempted official may not, within one year of the date of the release, be bound by a private legal person within the meaning of the Anti-corruption Act who has been directly or permanently supervised during the last year. However, the new law was not based on the principle that, in addition to a legal person governed by private law, an official exempted from service should be prohibited from taking up, within one year of the date of the release, a position elected or appointed by a legal person governed by public law which he has directly or permanently supervised during the last year. Nor was this principle based on the drafting of the Civil Service Act, which was initiated on 28 January 2013 and is now in force. § 85 of the Government Act provides for the supervision of the rural municipality over the activities of the local government. In addition, the supervisory functions are also derived from other laws, and therefore, for example, the County Elder is supervising the use of general plans and detailed plans and the use of special-purpose funds allocated from the State for social welfare purposes. Monitoring must be impartial, not self-interested, as the Chancellor of Justice has confirmed in several speeches. A situation has now arisen in which county elders are watching over local governments, but can apply for membership of the local government council that is under supervision. At the same time, the law prohibits an elder from being a member of a municipal or city council. A candidate mayor who remains in office and renounces his mandate shall, by means of the votes collected, assist the council of another member of his party. Through him, one party in the council under the supervision of a rural elder has gained greater weight, ignoring the principle of impartial and not self-interested supervision. This situation conflicts with the Code of Ethics of the Civil Service, which states in point 13 that an official shall also refrain from creating a seeming situation which may call into question his impartiality and objectivity in dealing with matters. The main objective of the proposed amendment is to organise the supervision of local authorities. The main target group is the county elders. That's all for short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U118	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U119	Thank you, Mr President. The purpose of this bill is to eliminate a seeming situation in which a mayor could take up a position of supervision. What is the effect of taking such a one-year break? Why does this break have to be one year, why couldn't it be three months, an election period or, for example, four years?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U120	Thank you, my good colleague, for a good question. Why a year? It's probably enough time not to get a chance to take this job unless you think that if I get elected now, I'm going to take that position. This creates such a time difference, and I think one year is enough time to rule out that the mayor may somehow influence the position he can take up in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U121	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U122	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! As you can see from the explanatory memorandum, and as you said yourself, the principal target group of the draft is the county elders. At the same time, the draft itself has been formulated on a broad basis and deals with officials and their entry into employment at all. According to this draft, for example, a person who has worked in the central administration of the Rescue Board cannot go and work in the structure below, for example as an elder or head of department. It is also the police that, if, for example, the chief police officer is dismissed, he would not be able to go down to work in the same structure during the year, as he may have done supervision there. What is the point of such a broad-based restriction? If you had land elders in your sights, why didn't you literally write that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U123	Thank you, my good colleague Neeme. You, as a former governor of the country, know this topic best, of course, but right now we are really targeting the land elders. I will give you an example of this year's local government election situation, where 12 county elders applied for the local government council and none of them went to work on the council. Consequently, none of these rural elders carried out impartial supervision. However, I am not opposed to this draft law being clarified during the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U124	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U125	Thank you, Madam President. As you said, no mayor went to work, and from the explanatory memorandum to the bill we also see that the main problem is not their taking up or not taking up their job, because they can also take up their job without a candidate, for example by way of a competition, the main problem is applying. But the bill speaks plainly about starting a job. If the problem is actually running, why didn't you come up with, for example, a proposal simply to ban the county governor from political activity and from running in municipal elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U126	Thank you, Neeme! Why didn't we tell you not to apply? We think there might be some kind of constitutional barrier. But the fact that they are running and over-politicised has not, in our opinion, benefited today's life in Estonia. We have brought the draft of the Riigikogu's grand hall once in order to eliminate the status of a county governor at all, because today it is in the way of life, functions are blurred, etc. All of this may be clarified during the draft procedure, but in our view the ban would probably be contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U127	No further questions. Thank you, Tarmo Tamm! Peep Aru, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will be the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Our committee discussed this issue on 3 December. Tarmo Tamm then made the same thorough presentation on behalf of the initiators as he did here, so I will not repeat his story or reasoning. The Government of the Republic was represented in the Commission by Ebe Sarapuu, Adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, who defended the views expressed by the Government of the Republic in its letter of 19 November in connection with the draft. I shall refer them briefly. The Government of the Republic discussed the draft on 14 November and decided not to support it. That's for quite a few reasons. Firstly, the proposal limiting fundamental rights (passive electoral rights) which has no connection with corrupt behaviour cannot be supported. The restriction in the current ATS concerns the transition to the private sector and its prohibition is justified. There is no competition in the public sector comparable to that of the private sector, and the advantages of one or the other body over the other are not important, but the good and transparent functioning of the whole public sector. Nor does an official receive, in principle, information which would be of economic benefit to him in a position chosen or appointed by the same legal person governed by public law, i.e. information the purpose of which is to avoid the use of which is to move to the private sector. The imposition of such a restriction therefore disproportionately infringes the rights of the official body. Secondly, the objective pursued by the draft cannot be achieved by the proposed solution, as the efficiency criteria for supervision set out in the draft are arbitrary and incoherent, and there is no causal link between the taking up of a rural municipality's elected or appointed office and the ineffectiveness of supervision. Thirdly, according to the explanatory memorandum to the Civil Service Act, the desired behaviour of officials can be influenced by the operating and operating restrictions and sanctioning measures imposed by legislation, but it is not possible or appropriate to regulate all values, standards of conduct or ethically problematic situations exhaustively by law and the uniform application of the code of ethics based on the strengthening of the values and values of the service of officials should be supported. The new anti-corruption law has also chosen an approach whereby officials are generally allowed to engage in ancillary activities, including as an entrepreneur, and to work with another employer, except in specific cases where there are grounds for prohibiting ancillary activities. This is a much more lenient intervention in the fundamental rights of a person and is in line with the general logic of restricting fundamental rights, the rule is the existence of a fundamental right and can only be limited under certain conditions. Fourthly, in 2009 the Riigikogu discussed the amendment of § 74 of the Civil Service Act on the initiative of its members. By adopting this draft as a law, the restriction prohibiting a state official from working as a state official in another state office or local government, which he had previously supervised as a state official, expired. At the time, the Riigikogu adopted the draft by 72 votes in favour and no member of the Riigikogu voted against the draft. The authors of this draft have not referred to, analysed or refuted this amendment and the corresponding recitals. Fifthly, the draft explanatory memorandum deals only with the aspect of the supervision of rural elders, but the draft restriction concerns the entire public service. Sixthly, § 18 of the Local Government Organisation Act provides for a number of other positions, which are incompatible with the office of a council member, in addition to a rural governor. The right to apply for them and the restriction thereof are not reflected in the draft. The draft therefore seeks unequal treatment of officials, which is contrary to § 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Following the hearing of the position of the Government of the Republic, both rapporteurs were asked a number of questions, which were slightly reflected in the questions put in this Chamber. In essence, the content of the questions was such that the real aim was to create a situation in which the mayor could not apply. However, it also turned out, through the Commission's questions, that if such a wish were to be made, it would be possible to do so differently. It is possible to do so through the Act of the Government of the Republic. There's a section on the country elders, and you can write in something like that that would change the situation. There was also such a suggestion that all political parties could agree and sign a protocol of good intentions according to which the county elders would not run for office or take office later. In short, this is the spirit of the Commission. It is important to pay tribute to the advocate of the bill that he has maintained his position. Very determined! Having heard all the arguments for and against and discussed the matter in depth, the Commission decided to propose that the draft be put on today's agenda and rejected. There were 7 members of the Commission in favour of this decision, 2 against and 2 abstentions. Finally, it was decided that I would be the rapporteur for this draft by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U129	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Jüri Jaanson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U130	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The content of the draft is to avoid applying for land parents. As far as I know, during your long political career, you have been both a deputy mayor and mayor, and you can evaluate this bill according to your personal experience. Here's the question: will your personal experience bring any substantial benefits to the adoption of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U131	I gave my opinion by voting in committee. Members of the Commission will know how I voted. I'll stick to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U132	No further questions. Thanks a lot, Peep Aru! Do you want to open negotiations? Please, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would have been much better off coming to this remote control if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had decided that this draft would be discussed and dealt with, rather than simply rejecting the initiative of one of the opposition parties once again. I believe that all my fellow Members in this Chamber understand that this is not just a change to the provision of the Civil Service Act, but a fundamental question of the degree of politicisation of society and the meaning of the County Elder institution in general. This bill would organise our political system in the sense that it would take away the motivation or reason to stand as a candidate in local elections. Since the law prohibits them from becoming a member of the council, it would be wise to do the same with regard to the position of Head of Government. What is more: since the county elders are generally pretty good hitchhikers, we would like to put our hands on a situation where the mayor collects votes using public resources in his election campaign, his party gets more seats and can gain power. And it's with the mayor's voices, who's supposed to be controlling this government. The situation that the Central Party Group is proposing with the draft we are discussing today has already been in place in Estonia; this is not about inventing a bicycle. Here, too, the answer to Mr Neeme the Great is why we came up with this broad draft amending the whole law on public service. This is the reason for restoring the former situation, which should be more acceptable and easier than to come up with a new idea. Because of Pärnu County Elder, this restriction was abolished in the public sector. In the private sector, however, there is still such a restriction that once an official has checked one or the other company, he or she will not be able to run the company once he or she has resigned. The government justified the distinction by the fact that there is no competition in the public sector, but it is in the private sector. This, in my opinion, shows once again that the government does not really know what is going on in Estonia. After all, competition from the private sector has long been lost in the country. In many places there are no more companies, there are still only land shops that certainly do not compete with each other over 50 kilometres. The only competition remains in the public sector between local authorities, where they compete for the preservation of schools and bus routes or, in fact, for the sake of every citizen, the taxpayer, often depending on the viewpoints and decisions of the county governor, how one or the other municipality is doing. The Centre Party has already brought a draft to this hall several times, which would change the nature of rural governments in principle by losing the county governor's institution. After all, county governments and county authorities work under the 1996 Act, but in essence their functions and role have changed considerably over time. It may even be said that the principal functions of the mayor and the rural government are fading or fading. All real levers, including financial resources and decision-making powers, are concentrated within the competence of ministries and, at best, the rural government is engaged in organising the mediation of resources decided in ministries. And this money is often spent on making a better election result. The position of County Elder has become a warm place for the members of the Reform Party and the IRL, where there is no responsibility and where the party's affairs can be dealt with peacefully. What kind of county elders ran for local elections? Of the fifteen county elders 12: Harju, Lääne, Pärnu, Jõgeva, Rapla, Saare, Viljandi, Tartu, Ida-Viru, Põlva, Valga and Võru. Four of them, the Mayors of Pärnu, Jõgeva, Valga and Võru, were also candidates for the mayor of their local governments. As I said, 12 of the 15 county elders applied, five of whom turned out to be elected, but that's okay, because the law doesn't allow them to go to the council anyway. Thus, these are examples of obvious manipulation of voters, because unlike, for example, members of the Riigikogu and ministers whose council member's mandate is suspended for a while and who are able to return to the council, the elected county governor will not be able to go there later. You could say that the only real ducks in these local elections were the county elders. The main problem, in our opinion, is that the county elders are spending more and more of their state resources to promote themselves and their party. Candidates, but it is known in advance that they will not take office. It is clear that some good practices and agreements are not helping here, so the law must be limited. In our opinion, this draft proposes a more lenient option, which further reduces the motivation of rural parents to stand as a candidate in local elections. Another and tougher option is to impose a restriction on the application of county elders in local elections. This is, in our opinion, a relatively extreme measure, and we therefore recommend supporting this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U134	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 512 at first reading. We must vote on this proposal. We are preparing the voting procedure. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 512 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 51 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 21 against, no abstentions. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported, with draft 512 rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U135	We are going to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Please present a speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U136	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, There are tens of thousands of strange laws in the world. In one municipality of the United States, it is forbidden to catch an alligator naked; in another place, it is not allowed to smoke in a gas mask; in the third place, it is prohibited to make a fire in a mobile railway car; in the fourth place, it is not allowed to bring home a poisonous snake at lunchtime, etc. There are so many weird laws. But I guess there's a specific case behind every law that led the legislator to think that you could ban some things or limit something. Likely, those who once adopted the law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property also had some argument to make life as it is today. I'm a little embarrassed because, according to my memory, I'm going to tell you about this thing in this hall about the 15th time, I'm going to describe the situation. In the 1960's, workers and servants in the Soviet Union began to be given small plots of land so that people could develop something in the country, build gardens, grow vegetables, and anything else they needed. At first, the parcels were very small, six centuries long, and then they began to grow. When it began near Narva, it began to be given for eight, after ten, and even twelve centuries. But these pieces of land are really very small. In this hall, I don't know, I could fit six of these pieces of land if I had to. Since Narva was a city of large companies, and there wasn't much trouble getting this land, there was a town around it, I'd say, the whole other city. Once 20 years ago, there were 11,000 land deposits where all these gardening cooperatives were located. To date, there are much less than 7,000. But 7,000 is also a very large number, these are dozens of gardening cooperatives. The people who live and work there are the owners of these land deposits. Rights should be equal, but not equal. There are two kinds of people. One is Estonian citizens, they can sell their property and they can also buy the property. Others are not Estonian citizens. If they already have this piece of land, they have it because it's just not possible to take it away. I think the logic of the legislator was once that way. But he can only sell this land to an Estonian citizen; he cannot sell it to a non-citizen. In our region, Estonian citizens are less than half, so the market is shrinking. People have quite rightly been asking why this restriction applies for 15 years. You're gonna explain to them that the law says these are defense restrictions, defence restrictions. First the aunt wonders, then she starts asking. There are several kinds of questions. The first question is what threat these eight centuries poses to the Estonian state. Is there a danger that in these eight centuries, an object could be built that would harm national defence interests? The other kind of questions are that, well, my eight-century-old country is at risk of being a part of Estonia, but it is funny in itself, but look, 20 meters away, where the gardening cooperative ends, the territory with protection restrictions ends, and there are dozens of acres of land bought by a company that is not from Estonia. I mean, he does not cause any danger, even though the owners are not Estonian citizens, but these eight centuries certainly pose a threat. And there's another funny thing that hasn't been asked about, but if it is, it is already. If you happen to have it in your possession, please see, on the last page of the explanatory memorandum, there is a table entitled "areas of areas referred to in section 10 (1) of the Law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property'. In fact, this restriction applies to the city of Narva, Narva-Jõesuu, about 80,000 people per Sillamäe, more than half of whom are not Estonian citizens. What's the joke? Despite the fact that these three municipalities are inside the law, prettyly written in it, can be bought there, there is no limit to this possibility, but in other municipalities no one can. It's dragging and stretching to solve this problem. Personally, I started talking about it here in 1999, but it stretches and stretches and stretches. Some time ago, about a year and a half ago, I could not say exactly, I was talking about this remote control again, and the amendment in the Commission practically came to an end, but at third reading, this repeated amendment was withdrawn. Then it was explained that the cause was defense restrictions, the Department of Defense had to oppose, the kapo had to oppose. When I was in committee with this draft, there were two committees, the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Committee on National Defence, a representative of the Ministry of Defence was also present. He didn't have any complaints. There are smart enough people in the Department of Defense to realize that eight centuries, even if there are ten together, there is no threat to national defence. At the time, about a year and a half ago, the question remained that if you say there is a threat about the defense, prove it, do an analysis and show it to us. They said yes, let's do it. And now that we've met without doing everything, there's no analysis. Supposedly, a working group has been set up. If you want to fail something, make a team, it'll all go down nicely! Now it's allowed that by May 1st, the argument will be brought here. I can't imagine what's being written in it, just some random stupidity, because it's simply not possible to justify it. Ladies and gentlemen, especially colleagues from the coalition, I appeal to your intelligence: there is no danger here. This law does not apply to the territory of 105 square kilometres, i.e. the territory of Narva, Sillamäe and Narva-Jõesuu. It never worked. Enough with the whining! Let's do something useful for people! The Commission was asked whether anyone has tried to do something big and beautiful in these areas, there are tens of hectares. Yes, it is. Once, about 10 to 12 years ago, I brought in entrepreneurs from Tallinn a few times. I said, look, people just hand over the land. And you know why? Because right now we have this collective responsibility. These pieces of land have a owner, such as a Russian citizen who is not present, cannot be sold, but are not present and pay nothing to the gardening cooperative. The gardening cooperative has to collect the money itself and pay for the work there anyway. The company came in, started to look and decided it was not possible, so it is done. I mean, these bans hinder additional economic activity and, of course, make it very difficult, even financially, to live the lives of those members of gardening cooperatives who actually attend. I don't expect much of today, and I wasn't going to talk for too long. But I liked the debate on draft 493 which actually showed that it was unbelievable, but apart from those who talk here all the time, they think and understand those who usually shut up. That was a very positive impression today. And in the sacred hope that you will understand that this law is complete stupidity, that it is necessary to change it, I have turned to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U137	Thank you. Let's continue with the questions. Please, Mr Mälberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In a large number of countries, certain restrictions have been imposed on the acquisition of land. What is your personal opinion, should there be any restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property in Estonia at all, and which principles, for example, could be based on?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U139	Thank you. Serious question, serious answer: national defence principles or, for example, health care principles. Suppose we have an airfield where bombers stand, fighters, the defense committee certainly knows better. In that case, it would be reasonable not to live next to this military object in any territory. Or if there's an artillery polygon, there should be a zone between the place where the shooting takes place and the place where it lives. Or it's based on the principles of health. If there is a waste water treatment plant, there must be a zone, either 150, 300 or 500 meters, where no one should be built and where no one should live. Such understandable principles should be taken into account. The restrictions are supposed to be, but they really should be national defence, not just the random ones that are here. Two houses stand side by side, two gardening cooperatives, which are absolutely identical, even the name is one and the same, only the number is different, one and two. One house on the territory of the city of Narva is sold if you want, and sell to whomever you want. The second house is outside the city's territory, all is allowed only for Estonian citizens. I don't see the difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U140	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U141	Dear waitress, I have read several times in the press that in Narva-Jõesuu, there are quite a lot of properties acquired by companies of Russian origin, as well as citizens of the Russian Federation. Do you have any idea how large this amount is relatively and by what mechanism they will be acquired? How have they passed this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U142	Thank you. That's a good question! When I studied this matter years ago, I think it might have been in 2005 or 2006 before the Bronze Night, I officially learned from Narva-Jõesuu City Government that a little less than 20%, such a round, well-remembered number, of real estate belongs not to Russian citizens who live in Estonia and have a residence permit here, but to those who have to do a visa all the time, to those who come mainly from the Leningrad region. Developments, however, are such that Narva-Jõesuu uses a very good geographical location, and every year there comes one or two houses, 10 to 20 apartments. For the last house that was put on the market, I've been told that all its apartments have been bought by the natives of St. Petersburg and the Leningrad District. In Narva-Jõesuu, it is even laughed that at a certain time it was very easy to understand who was building a new private house. If the windows were huge, like here, then the builder isn't local, he doesn't know how much heat we have, he can't imagine it. After that, it turned out they knew. They just have enough money to buy it. It's a secret to me. I am the last person to harm the local government by asking why the law is being violated and why these people are being allowed to buy this land, but this is happening. I think that at this point, the share of such properties could be 25%, trying to reach 30%. There are these streets in Narva-Jõesuu, where especially in the winter when you walk there, sometimes I walk there, you can see that in three or four days no one has come out of the house or gone back there. These are houses, large beautiful houses built in the capital, where people live when they come to Estonia on the basis of a visa. It is possible to spend 182 or 183 days in Estonia each year, so for six months these houses will be empty. I don't understand why there's no problem, property buys by any other person. It's good for builders, it's sad for the municipality, because these people don't pay taxes, but that's a whole other story. So one place gets past the law with a lot of money, and another place will soon have nothing to do with a quarter of a century.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U143	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U144	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I'm asking about the threat. How will the risk increase when the cottage user becomes the owner of the cottage? How does this increase the level of danger?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U145	Thank you. To be honest, we are also in the Commission, I do not remember whether in this composition, or in the past, much fantasizing about how many tanks can be buried in the ground in eight centuries, so that there would be an entrance, a disguise to keep the house, etc. We got some numbers, too. It's probably the things that make this country dangerous. But property, Tarmo, doesn't depend on anything here. What am I trying to prove today? We like it or not, but there are always strange things in law that just need to be repaired, and that's it. If it doesn't bother anyone, for example, the law of not catching an alligator naked doesn't bother anyone, then let him stay, it's a joke. But what we're talking about right now is interfering. It needs to be changed, that's the thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U146	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U147	Thank you. Dear waitress, In your draft, you foresee that an Estonian person with long-term resident status could buy 0.2 hectares of land. I understand the practical concern of gardening cooperatives, but if we take the substance, then it is still a matter of principle. Why should people who have lived long-term resident status in Estonia treat themselves differently from Estonian citizens when buying land? Why have you not gone this way in the draft to make national defence restrictions resident, because long-term residents actually have a very close connection with the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U148	Thank you. Also a very good question! It's a compromise. I have been to the Commission on this issue many times, and I have been to the remote. At times, someone has started to say that this is how they buy huge acres in eight centuries and make an airfield or something like that. With this 0.2 hectare came out either in Riigikogu X or at the beginning of its composition. It's a compromise. Fear always has big eyes. I agree with you that there should be no restriction at all, that there should be equal rights. At a great moment, when this amendment went to third reading with the draft law and the draft was to be adopted, it was withdrawn. I think that many will remember this tragic moment because I do not know, either before or after, any time where the initiator would have withdrawn his draft law at third reading. But that's what happened! This 0.2 ha is a compromise place. If anyone really fears that more than three tanks are already dangerous, we will limit the size of that parcel.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U149	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! The lead judge of this draft is the Committee on Rural Affairs, which is of the opinion that the draft should be rejected today and no longer dealt with. You said there was a joint meeting with the National Defence Commission. Did the National Defence Commission also shape its position? What was it, and what arguments did it base on?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U151	Thank you. Since this is the first reading, there will be a co-report. I was present at the first two meetings of the Commission, we spoke with representatives of the Ministry of Defence, and the members of the committees asked questions. At the second meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs, where procedural decisions were taken, my presence was not needed and, as far as I am aware, the Committee on National Defence issued its opinion there. So I think we could talk about this as a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U152	Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U153	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I agree with you on many points. You referred to the fact that, although I am a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, I was unable to participate at the time, the Ministry of Defence was a representative who, according to you, claimed that there was no problem. I also asked the question in my group on Monday. Since quite a number of defence ministers have been in succession from the IRL, I tried to find out exactly what this security problem is and why we do not have that answer. Let's just say I didn't get too clear and precise an answer. Do you, who have dealt with this bill since 1999, have you known this exactly and have the position of the Ministry of Defence changed since the last time you said the official said there was no problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U154	I already told you, this isn't even about the Department of Defense. The Department of Defence says that it does not see any interference in the state's ability to defend itself, or it says that it would be much better to reform the law so that defenceal territories are really in those places, as I said in reply to the first question. If you want a completely frank and honest answer, I think the opinion of the defense police is more important here. Personally, I didn't read the letter, it was classified, but I guess in the costaars, the information is still moving. You know what I'm talking about. I am aware of the content of this letter which was sent to the Committee on Rural Affairs last time. There's a great danger, specifically in what, I don't know. But it has been heard that, for example, in Narva, where European money is now being built on the shore, the kapo had proposed that everything on this very shore should be closed at all, to declare this entire river's edge a closed zone. It's on the level of cost accounting, but knowing these people, I'm pretty much imagining that that's really the way it is. So this is a cat who is very pleased with her life in Ida-Virumaa, specifically in Narva. He doesn't just get his daily portion of sour cream there, he gets another 25%, and in order not to make his master's rations smaller, he always needs to look for enemies and see any danger. That's what kapo does. And I think his word in this situation, as strange as it may be, is decisive.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U155	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. Now I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Mälberg, from the Committee on Rural Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U156	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to congratulate my colleague, Mr Stalnukhin, who has consistently brought this draft to this Chamber, so that, in my opinion, this too may have changed the paragraph that has already lived up to its time. All the more so, it is very easy to miss the meaning or content of this section. The Rural Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the law on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group at the joint session of 502 together with the National Defence Committee on 19 November. Mikhail Stalnukhin, representative of the initiator of the draft, Illar Lemetti, Deputy Chancellor of Agriculture and Rural Policy at the Ministry of Agriculture, and Andres Ideon, Department of Infrastructure at the Ministry of Defence, and Kati Lõbu, lawyer at the Legal Department, were invited. In the example of Narva, the representative of the initiator explained the reasons for the drafting of the draft law. He just gave me an overview of them here, too, so I'm not going to talk them out of it. Mr Lemetti presented the position of the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic does not support this bill, as the issue of national defence restrictions requires in-depth analysis. Andres Ideon of the Ministry of Defence added that a working group has been set up to analyse the problem of national defence restrictions and to find solutions, including representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Defence Forces, the Defence Police Department, the Ministry of the Interior and the Police and Border Guard Board. The group considered that the subject was much wider and needed a thorough analysis, after which legislative changes could be proposed. The analysis will be completed next year. In the Commission, visitors answered numerous questions. The main issue was the deadline for the working group to complete its analysis so that it could move on with the issue in its entirety. It was agreed that the Ministry of Defence would inform the Rural Commission by 3 December of the deadline for the completion of the analysis and, at the same time, the National Defence Commission would give its opinion on the draft. For the second time, the Rural Commission discussed the draft law amending the law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property at the meeting on 3 December. By then, the opinion of the National Defence Committee had also arrived. In its opinion, the Committee on National Defence considers that there is a need for restrictions, while the current regulation does not cover all the problems, which is why all issues relating to restrictions are covered and their importance should be fully addressed in a working group chaired by the Ministry of Defence. The National Defence Committee advises the working group not to impose national defence restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property from the borders of the municipality as a whole, as is the case with the law and draft in force, but to limit the proximity of immovable property to a defence or security object and to a state border. According to the information received from the Ministry of Defence, an analysis of national defence restrictions will be completed by 1 May 2014. I am so blue-eyed to believe the promises, and I look forward to seeing this analysis and moving on with the subject. The Commission took the following decisions at its meeting: Firstly, Meelis Mälberg (this decision was taken by consensus) was appointed rapporteur for draft 502. Secondly, it was also decided to consensually send a draft of 502 to the Riigikogu for first reading. a on 10 December. Thirdly, it was decided to propose that the Assembly reject draft 502. There were five members of the Commission in favour of this decision, four against and no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U157	Thank you very much. Now the questions. Please, Mr Ossinovski, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U158	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'm sure your blue eye is worthy of recognition. But how do you feel about the fact that, as early as 2011, when this issue was discussed, the Ministry of Defence promised to conduct a new analysis within six months? I have asked about this both in 2012 and early 2013, and it has always been said that this analysis is on work plans and is being done. By 2014, basically three years have passed since the first debate. How do you assess the attitude of the Ministry of Defence towards the tasks assigned by the Riigikogu's committees, when it takes three years to carry out a single analysis and, in the meantime, we know nothing? We do not know whether anything is actually done or whether it is only said to be done. What do you think of the Ministry's attitude towards Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U159	Thank you. Based on the DOD's promise, I made a promise from this remote one and a half years ago that in the next six months, this bill would come back to the table. But I still believe in people's promises, and I want them to be kept. So let's look forward to it together in the excitement of 1st May.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U160	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U161	Thank you, Madam President. It is generally difficult for me to assess a promise that lasts more than three years. However, this issue has been under discussion for more than ten years. But I also have a question. Firstly, is this promise the argument for rejecting the draft, or was there some other arguments as to why this draft could no longer be discussed further? Secondly, what is the difference between the size of the threat if one gardening plot has a user who cannot acquire the plot, the other has a owner, and neither is an Estonian citizen?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U162	I have to admit, neither can I see the danger. However, it is precisely for this reason that the draft currently pending does not solve the problem as a whole that the whole section should be reviewed. That's what this task force has been called for, as I understand it. Let them do their job and propose a better solution to the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U163	Please, Mr Allik, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U164	Dear waitress, I would also like to continue with the blue eye, but did the Commission not discuss the possibility that, at this point, this draft could still be put to second reading and then wait for 1 May, as we have dozens of drafts waiting on the shelf? It would at least give the Department of Defense some motivation or incentive to deal with the matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U165	Thank you. This issue was not discussed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U166	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U167	Does the Commission have any conviction that anyone in the Ministry of Defence understands what this is about?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U168	I believe the Department of Defense understands very well what this is about.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U169	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U170	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Can you tell who this task force is to hand over its analysis to, either the Commission, the Riigikogu or to whom?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U171	I think this analysis will form the basis for the new draft law that the Government of the Republic will then submit to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U172	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U173	Thank you. Dear colleague, I can now understand why the Reform Party did not get a list in large part of the municipalities of Ida-Virumaa. If you answer the people for a year and a half about what was assigned to you, I believe that there really will be nothing you will have to do in the next elections. But I'm wondering if you'll be here in March. Mr Stalnukhin has already come here three or four times with this proposal, with a bill. Will you come here now in March or May, or will you not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U174	The analysis will be completed by 1 May. Probably after this analysis, we could prepare a new draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U175	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U176	I'm funny myself, but I'm still asking you, what happens if the analysis isn't done by May 1st? Is anyone responsible for getting a bonus or, for God's sake, a job, or is something else going to happen? How do these things work?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U177	You yourself were at this meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs when the Department of Defense made that promise. I have nothing to do from this remote control but confirm: I want to believe that this promise will be kept.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U178	Please, Mr Toobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! You said after 1 May, they'd probably come up with this bill. You even made a promise on behalf of the government that the Government of the Republic would probably come out with it. You will probably not be able to make that promise. But can you make a promise that after 1 May, when the analysis has been carried out and examined, the Committee on Rural Affairs will come up with a draft and will discuss this issue here in Parliament? You are a coalition ambassador, and I believe you are also a coalition ambassador in May, will the Committee on Rural Affairs come up with this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U180	I'm sure I can't make promises for the government. You must have misunderstood me. I just wanted to say it would make sense if the Government of the Republic came up with this bill again.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U181	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Mälberg. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? Please, Mr Stalnukhin, as representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U182	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to turn to the coalition ambassadors with a proposal that already sounded in this Chamber. For God's sake, this bill could fall asleep for about half a year. No one's going to struggle. We are calmly waiting for the same mysterious 1st of May, when the analysis will be completed, and maybe we can move on. That would be a proposal for consideration. Why the war all the time, all the more so as there is nothing more to prove to anyone here, because everything that can be said about national defence restrictions has already been said. Let's keep the bill alive and let him wait for the 1st of May, no one's gonna rush it. The other thing is, I'd like to ask you how you feel about your conscience. After all, you were made clear that this is a law that works in one part and does not work in another. There is such a dualistic view of the world. It would be something like the VAT law that half of businesses have to pay, half of them do not, for some reason, even though the law says that everyone has to pay. It's such a strange law! There is, of course, a third option: to build an object near these gardening cooperatives that would require state protection, such as the National Defence Academy. And then that limit stays on, for God's sake! On the other side of the river, by the way, not too far, about 25 kilometers, is a cannon polygon. If they shoot in there, tanks go shooting in there, like the windows in my house are shaking. A good way to solve all the problems is, firstly, to leave it in the procedure of the draft and wait for 1 May. The second option is to bring in the National Defence Academy there is a vast amount of free land, and then there will also be a need for national defence restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U183	Please, as representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Mr Ossinovski, Mr Jevgeni.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U184	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have already dealt with this issue in this composition several times, since 2011. It is certainly not normal for the law to determine 3000 square kilometres, or 7% of the territory of Estonia, on which 180000 people, or 14% of the Estonian population, cannot acquire land at all. We have talked here today, and before, about the practical problem that the narcs cannot sell or buy their gardening plots, but in fact, the question is much more fundamental. People who have lived here for decades have virtually no access to goods available to the public, while all citizens of the countries of the European Economic Area, who may never have lived in Estonia, can freely buy and sell land under this law. The Ministry of Defence has said that there will be a new concept according to which restrictions on the purchase of land will become object-based, and this should be awaited once again. It is understandable that if the completion of one analysis takes three years, it is probably not a very high priority for the ministry. When my colleague Valeri Korb asked what would happen after the analysis was completed, the analysis of the analytical results will, of course, be further analysed. For several years the results of the analysis will be analysed, is a matter of its own. Moreover, the question of principle is whether, based on this analysis, the problem currently under discussion is really being resolved? In fact, it should not be assumed that this analysis would essentially solve the issue, since the Estonian border is certainly one object in the vicinity of which the purchase of land will continue to be restricted, and I have no doubt that it is quite several kilometres away. Therefore, in my opinion, we should approach the matter from a different perspective and ask whether those people who have linked their lives to Estonia and live here with long-term resident status deserve to be treated worse than the citizens of European countries, who have no connection to Estonia at all. How, then, can such restrictions be justified in substance? I asked the Minister of Defence, for example, in the form of a written question, whether we have any information that the long-term residents of Estonia have committed more acts threatening the security of the country than the citizens of the Estonian European Economic Area. They said there was no analysis. The basic logic of the rule of law states that restrictions must be proportionate and justified. After a number of questions to a number of ministers, I have come to the conclusion that there are no substantive reasons for such a distinction. Therefore, in my opinion, this whole concept should be reviewed at all, and not in the way that the Ministry of Defence has done or is doing in three years, but rather in the way that the people who actually live in Estonia should be treated differently from the citizens of the European Union on this particular issue. For these reasons, the Group of the Social Democratic Party supports the further procedure of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U185	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. As the lead committee has proposed to reject the draft 502 at first reading, this proposal needs to be voted through. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the leading committee 502 at first reading. Please vote! 40 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 32 against and no abstentions. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported and draft 502 has fallen out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U186	The last item on our agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending § 32 of the State Budget Act initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. For a presentation, I would like to ask Mr Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U187	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the initiation of the draft at its meeting on 2 December and decided to initiate the draft by consensus. The first-reading preparatory meeting took place on 5 December 2013. In short, the objectives of this draft. The aim is to provide for the possibility for the Ministry of Finance to settle, if necessary, payments related to funded pensions and securities of the Central Register of Estonian Securities through the Treasury. The initiation of the draft act was due to the fact that the new draft State Budget Act 513 currently pending in the Riigikogu provides for this possibility, but it is known that the procedure of the state budget law may take time and the law will not enter into force by 1 February 2014, i.e. by the time the central register manager of Estonian securities has to move its settlement from Eesti Pank. This draft amendment to the current State Budget Act is intended to be dealt with in such a way that, from 1 February 2014, the Ministry of Finance would have legal basis and opportunity to serve the settlement of the Central Register of Securities. To clarify the background, I would also like to say that the central register of Estonian securities is one of the main registers of the state, which keeps records of the stock registers of all public limited liability companies operating in Estonia and of all securities accounts and pension accounts opened in Estonia. The central register of securities is maintained by AS Eesti Keskus; the register is kept under the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act. The maintenance of the central electronic register is given to the Central Securities Register on the basis of the Estonian Central Securities Register Act and the Registration Agreement with the Ministry of Finance. The central register of Estonian securities currently uses a bank account for the settlement of funded pensions, which must be located in Eesti Pank in accordance with the law on funded pensions. However, as of 1 February 2014 Eesti Pank's normal payment settlement system ESTA no longer supports SEPA standards in connection with the introduction of the SEPA XML format, which is why Eesti Pank will close ESTA and stop clearing domestic interbank settlements. Amendments to the draft 501 adopted by the Riigikogu on 20 November allow the central register of Estonian securities to choose a new settlement service provider. The Estonian Central Register of Securities has already dealt with the selection of a new settlement service provider. Negotiations have been conducted with several banks, as well as with the Ministry of Finance. To date, since 1 February 2014, the Central Register of Securities has expressed its wish to organise pension and securities-related payments through the Treasury. The current State Budget Act does not allow the Treasury to serve the Central Register of Securities. At present, the Ministry of Finance may, by law or contract, hold and place only funds from legal persons governed by public law and from legal persons governed by public law or by public law. The draft directly concerns the contributions of the second pension pillar, i.e. 600000 persons per year, the beneficiaries of the second pillar pension, i.e. 65000 100000 persons per year, as well as persons wishing to invest in the third pillar, i.e. approximately 40,000 persons per year. The Commission's discussion asked about the function of Eesti Pank or the future Treasury in the chain Tax and Customs Board, Eesti Pank and the central register of Estonian securities. The answer was that Eesti Pank aggregates payments and distributes them, so the payment system has worked. However, commercial banks were no longer interested, and when commercial banks fell away, Eesti Pank no longer had the idea of maintaining the system. The Treasury will take its place by distributing payments between the four largest banks. The role of the central securities register in this chain is to carry out general controls. The question was asked about the additional burden on the Treasury as to whether more people would be taken. The answer was that there is no need for more people, but some IT systems need to be restructured. There were also questions as to whether such a change could affect the balance sheet of the Treasury. This does not affect the balance sheet of the Treasury in any way because the Treasury acts as a bank in terms of its services, in essence, and provides a service for which persons pay in accordance with the agreements to be concluded. The money that goes through these settlements is not part of the balance sheet. While additional IT investment is needed for the cash service of additional persons, some servers may need to be registered as fixed assets. In this way, this law allows the balance sheet of the Treasury to be affected. The Commission has taken consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda today, 10 December 2013, to close the first reading and set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 3 p.m. on 13 December. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U188	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Luigas, a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U189	Thank you, dear waitress. You didn't mention one thing. We had a debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that this draft law would give the Treasury the opportunity to serve all their current accounts with administrative functions and legal entities governed by private law. In the Committee on Finance, the question arose as to how many private legal persons in Estonia have been given this administrative burden. A representative of the Treasury Department said he doesn't know. I made a small inquiry, and it turned out to be about 100 private individuals who have this administrative burden. Does this law also give the Treasury the right to manage bank accounts for all these persons?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U190	I do not think there is any need for this, because we have a functioning system of commercial banks that makes settlements. So there's no need for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U191	Please, Mr Luigas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U192	Thank you, dear waitress. The answer given by the Ministry of Finance was that, if necessary, contracts could be concluded with these private legal entities and could also be managed by their bank accounts. After all, in 2011 the Health Insurance Fund was merged with the Treasury and in 2012 the Unemployment Insurance Fund. In such cases, can it be assumed that the Treasury can improve the liquidity turnover of the Estonian state in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U193	It is no news that the cash settlement system of the unemployment fund has been transferred to the treasury service, as well as to the health insurance fund. There were very rational reasons for this. Savings and savings for the management of funds in the state as a whole were the main objective of the administration of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund to the Treasury. The Treasury has done well with this task, in managing these funds, in investing available funds, the persons to whom the services are provided have achieved a reasonable return. I don't know right now that there's anyone else to add. The Ministry of Finance said that, if necessary, there is this possibility, but I will answer again, as I have already said, that there is no known need for this now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-10_U194	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 547 amendments. 12 December 2010 at 3 p.m. First reading of Bill 547 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, our agenda has been exhausted. Have a nice day, everybody! Closure of the sitting at 12.56 p.m.
