ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the 16th working week Tuesday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to report an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. This concerns the order of treatment and the lack of medical staff. The results of the University of Tartu survey were recently published that if we continue on the current path, by 2032 the number of doctors could, at worst, decrease from 4500 to 2500. We're already thousands short of sisters. In order to maintain the current level, at least 60 new medical students should be added annually, the admission should be increased. At the same time, it should also be taken into account that leaving Estonia should decrease by at least half. The departure of doctors now puts doctors and patients in a very difficult position both in Estonia, as on the one hand the workload of doctors increases and, of course, people do not get to the doctor in time. The Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, who is currently Minister of Social Affairs in Taavi Rõiva, signed a decision in January fixing the maximum length of outpatient special medical care for six weeks. If we look at how long the queues really are, then in the North Estonian Regional Hospital, for example, there is a queue for 92 days, at West Tallinn Central Hospital for 70 days, at the University of Tartu Hospital for more than eight months. Those are huge-length queues. The situation is extremely difficult and critical, and that is why we are asking our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Now to the messages. On Wednesday, 5 June, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Culture Rein Lang and Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questions of the members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 81 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 20 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U4	We're going to the agenda today. I will present to you the procedure for carrying out the first item on the agenda. This point is Eesti Pank's annual report for 2012. First, we will listen to the presentation by Ardo Hansson, Governor of Eesti Pank, which is up to 20 minutes, and then there are questions for the waitress. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. We will then open negotiations where representatives of the political groups can take the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a chair of speech from the President of Eesti Pank, Ardo Hansson.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U5	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to present the Eesti Pank Annual Report 2012. It's my first time in this hall. I would say that today's performance, as had been the case for Riigikogu members at the end of last year, is a part of parliamentary supervision of an independent and open central bank. I am referring to openness, because I think this is something that we worked very hard for last year. We have wished to make Eesti Pank more open. This is happening in many dimensions. We have a lot of callers, 25 callers, who speak in different forums, we have a new museum, we have a new website. It was precisely from the point of view of openness that, in my view, it was a very important process to carry out an audit of the VEB Fund. Finally, openness is also about attitudes and body language, an empathy that cannot be faked. If you show your attitude and are more open, you can't fake it. If you show in your attitudes that you are more open, I think we have moved very much forward in this area. In my presentation, I will discuss three topics. Firstly, I will talk a little about the state of our economic policy, secondly about the activities of the central bank and thirdly about the independence and efficiency of the central bank, about economic policy in the euro area and in Estonia. We know that the euro area economy is developing very slowly. At present, six quarters have been in a small recession. On the basis of the current forecast, we assume that this decline will stop and ever, in the second half of the year, will turn towards a moderate rise. Things have gone relatively well in the areas where the European Central Bank has been active. Firstly, our main objective is to ensure price stability in the euro area, which means that we want and can keep inflation slightly below 2% in the medium term. That's what we did last year. Inflation was about 2.5% or slightly higher in the middle of the year, but it was clearly on a downward trend. By the end of the year, this figure had reached 2% and now it is just under 2%. In the euro area as a whole, we have managed in this sense. One issue is the fragmentation of financial markets. We know that in some euro area countries interest rates are very low, in others high. In this area too, especially since last summer, the situation has improved a lot. The bond yields of the so-called periphery countries have come down and the euro area is more consistent in terms of financial markets than it was a year ago. We have probably gained a little from the fact that our immediate neighbours have done a little better than the euro area average and this trend continues. The comparison of the Baltic countries versus the crisis countries has shown that rapid adaptation has enabled us to choose the right path. This has helped us to reduce the fatigue of reform, the accumulation of debt and the economic damage caused by long-standing uncertainty. In our view, the Estonian economy has now developed in a very balanced way, especially when we compare it with the booming period, where there were major current account deficits, budget deficits and banks developed unbalanced. These things have all changed. At the moment, we have a low budget deficit and a small current account deficit. But we have always stressed that this balance is not very certain. There are big risks in the world, and the situation can change in one direction or the other. So we need to be vigilant. Last year inflation increased by 3.9%, which was a relatively high figure. Partly because we have relatively high food and energy costs compared to other countries, it was the prices of these items that rose faster than average. But now inflation has slowed down, and I think the last figure is 3.1%. Core inflation is under control and, in this sense, we believe that things are developing in the right direction. Unemployment has decreased quite rapidly for the last two years and employment has increased. We can see that further employment growth will become a little more difficult, but this is also an important issue. When you come to another topic, Eesti Pank's activities, the normal tasks of Eesti Pank went smoothly last year. I personally participate twice a month in the formulation of monetary policy and other decisions in Frankfurt. We have tried to be a constructive and effective partner there, to speak more and more, and to help find better pan-European solutions. We also have very many good colleagues who have done the same work in other committees. Economic analysis is very important for this work, and we also use this analysis to advise the government on economic policy issues and to inform the people and businesses of what might happen in the economy. I think that our macro-analyses, analyses of financial stability, the labour market and competitiveness are very authoritative and we hope that they will benefit more widely. We consider the risks to Estonia's financial stability to be low. Banks are heavily capitalised and liquid. Better off than it was a few years ago. Cash circulation went smoothly on us. Our people participated in the preparations so that we could put into circulation this May a second-generation five-euro banknote, and in other denominations this work will continue. Interbank payments were also smooth last year. The systems managed by Eesti Pank were 100% and smooth. The central bank is preparing to devote more energy to the supervision of payment systems, as the ESTA system managed by the central bank will have to be closed by the end of January next year. Other main activities of Eesti Pank, investment and granting monetary policy loans to commercial banks have also progressed well. In a low interest rate environment, we have achieved a relatively good result. We have collected statistics, in particular on the balance of payments, and carried out economic studies. I would say that cooperation with the government in advising economic policy was constructive. The central bank's main objective is not to generate revenue, but as a result of all its activities, we made a profit of EUR 34.1 million in revenues of EUR 51.6 million last year. We allocated a quarter of the benefit to the state budget, which is 3 million more than in 2011. Since 1992 we have allocated a total of 123 million euros to the state budget. The distribution of this money depends on the level of return, but also on the risks involved. We have noted that Eesti Pank's buffers on capital, undistributed profits and other reserves are currently the smallest of the central banks in the euro area, taking into account our size, i.e. our participation in the European Central Bank. The central banks of the euro area share the benefits and risks in a uniform manner when implementing monetary policy, and so we should bring our capital closer to those of the other central banks. We will continue our long-term work on growing buffers at Eesti Pank. In my opinion, the position is that the buffers of the central bank are not important, as when very high risks materialise, you can always ask the Riigikogu for more capital, rather short-sighted. It should be logical for buffers to be created and secured in relatively good times. We imagine that buffers will need to be created sometime at a time when the economy is in difficulties and money is needed to meet other objectives. It would be bad if Eesti Pank still needed to capitalise further at such a time. So I don't think that's the most sensible approach. The Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has set itself the goal of growing these buffers, and this is what we are doing, including transferring 8.5 million euros to the state budget. Finally, I will talk about two issues. One is the independence of Eesti Pank. The independence of the central bank is a long-standing principle and I think it has served its purpose in history. The central bank needs capital buffers to guarantee its independence, but otherwise we have tried very hard to deliver independently. The nature of this independence has changed over the years. I myself was a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank between 1993 and 1998 and then, before joining the European Union and joining the euro area, it was a slightly different body of the Supervisory Board. He was more of a management body. During the subsequent processes, the Riigikogu has decided that the role of the Supervisory Board of the Bank is more to be a supervisory body. The Riigikogu reduced the role of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank during the accession negotiations with the European Union in order to increase the independence of the central bank and transformed the Supervisory Board into a supervisory body. But I think we've proven in a year that we're working independently, and that's a good thing. I would also like to talk about the effectiveness of the work, i.e. cost-effectiveness, which has been mentioned quite a bit. I think that if you look at the data in the annual report, you will understand that the bank has already acted on this before my time, and also in the last year, quite a lot. This is a serious issue for us. The aim of the Executive Board of Eesti Pank is to ensure that Eesti Pank is an effective organisation. Effectiveness means that we do our job well and achieve our goals. However, another feature of an effective organisation is that results are achieved at optimal cost. We have set a specific cost ceiling to keep or reduce central bank costs. That's where we don't have any new assignments. Of course, if we could have additional tasks, we should finance them further. If our tasks remain the same, we should be able to reduce our share of the Estonian economy slightly over time. If you look at these figures, you'll see that we've managed to do it. This year's report shows the real costs for 2012. With the exception of one-off euro area entry costs and cash-related costs, which are very volatile and change year after year, our costs increased by about 1%, with the Estonian economy growing by 6 to 7%. This year's budget expects us to grow 3% slower than the Estonian economy as a whole. So the trend is that Eesti Pank has actually been able to play a smaller role in the Estonian economy in carrying out its tasks. So we are moving towards the target of efficiency. In terms of the number of employees, we are the smallest central bank in Europe, we are less than the Central Bank of Malta, Luxembourg and Cyprus. But, especially as a central bank for the euro area, we have a number of tasks that must definitely be done, regardless of the number of employees. Are you Germany or the central bank of Estonia, you have to do these things. As the central bank of the euro area, we have the opportunity to participate in decision-making and we consider it important that Estonia be active at the table. One can bring parallels to the Estonian Government, where the increasing and more important part of the work is related to decisions taken in Europe each year. A joint venture is worthwhile if you contribute to it. By doing so, we will ensure that a common Europe is also the face of Estonia. In conclusion, I would say that we have done well in our core tasks. I really have professional colleagues who do their job well. I believe that we have increased our credibility, our openness, our independence, our efficiency and perhaps our effectiveness. I'm done with that. Thank you for listening. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U6	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Valeri Korb, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U7	Mr President of the Bank of Estonia, thank you for your presentation. In front of the Riigikogu, we rarely see the President of the Bank. You have been on your post for a year, and that is why my question to you is how you appreciate the cooperation between the Riigikogu and Eesti Pank.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U8	Thank you for your question. I think if you call me more often, I'd be happy to come. I can't break into this hall myself. Please, if there are any other questions that could be discussed here. But at least we have met with the Committee on Monetary Affairs two or three times a year. In the course of the year, I have also met several political groups, and my colleagues have also come here. Private conversations have also been here and there. I don't think there's any glitch on our side. Such reporting is very important; it is part of cooperation. Our independence is not absolute, we always have a link with the rest of the country, and the role of the Riigikogu is of course important here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U9	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U10	Thank you very much for your presentation, Mr President of the Bank. Mart Laar will take the chair of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank next week. Have you already had discussions with him about the bank's visions for the future? Do you not think that we would preferably need people with a high level of financial and banking experience to see Eesti Pank, just as people with a commercial bank background and experience would also be needed in the Supervisory Board of the Financial Supervision Authority?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U11	We met once. We talked for about three-quarters of an hour on all sorts of subjects. The new chairman of the Supervisory Board will take office in a week's time. Certainly he will attend the next meeting of the Bank's Supervisory Board, so we can talk in the future. On the one hand, I should not have any position on those who supervise the work of me and the whole of the bank. It's up to you. But I think the current model, where half of the members of the Council are so-called politicians and half independent experts, is quite well developed. Communication with this hall is ensured and, on the other hand, expertise capacity is ensured. We now have economics professors, law professors, businessmen in the Council. So I think our profile's been pretty good. Next year, you will have to reaffirm the new Council and if pluralism is preserved in the sense that people with different skills are at the table, it will certainly be useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U12	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U13	Mr President, My question is based on some of the statements made by Jaan Männik, the current Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. In essence, I am offering you the opportunity to debate our questions with Raul Malmstein, Chairman of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, who will present his report after you. Since you will not be given the floor after that, perhaps you can comment earlier. Jaan Männik has said the right thing on several occasions that the Financial Supervision Authority in its current size is too expensive and too large for the Estonian state. Do you share this view? If not, what is your justification?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U14	It's hard for me to appreciate how big the Financial Supervision Authority should be, but I think he's done his job well so far. In my opinion, it is not very large when it comes to comparison with another Europe. However, when we talk about Eesti Pank and the Financial Supervision Authority, we can always say that things can be done better. We have supplies, and surely both they and we are working to exploit them and to work more effectively. The question is only what could be done differently, things have been organised differently in different countries. We chose our model over ten years ago. Now new winds are blowing in Europe, systems are being reformed, and we can, of course, change things. However, the evaluation of all activities is difficult. If we look at price stability or inflation figures that are published once a month, this is a clear benchmark. In the area of financial stability, it is a little harder to assess, but it can be said that no significant abuses or crises have been observed in the last year. So at least one good indicator that these things have worked is there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U15	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U16	Honourable performer! When you took your place, you soon published a series of documents relating to the VEB Fund. In the public opinion, they were either lost or highly secret. You brought them to society, and you gave them the very good news. Now a politician takes up the bank's board. Politicians have a strong interest in such documents. Hence my question: are these documents all "documented" and registered in some kind of register? Is there no fear that any of these documents might disappear from the bank's archives?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U17	Personally, I have no fear of that. And we can discuss the results of this audit. One of the things that came as a positive surprise to me, at least, was that these documents had been preserved on quite a large scale. In fact, there were some spaces, some documents did not exist, but on the basis of the documents we had in the archives, a fairly complete picture could be formed. Like I said, it was a little positive surprise for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U18	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U19	Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! You've been on duty for a year. What contact have you had with the Estonian Savings and Loan Associations and what opinion have you had during this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U20	A few months ago, we met with representatives of this Union and discussed their problems and how to move things forward. It seems to me that savings loan cooperatives are currently in a situation where they are not really meat or fish. That is, in the sense that they are not supervised, they are governed by their own law. At the same time, some savings and loan cooperatives quietly start raising public deposits. One of the models that characterise a classic savings-credit cooperative is that the cooperative collects deposits from its community, its members, and those members themselves carry out supervision. The second model is if the cooperative involves deposits from the wider public, in which case wider supervision is also needed. At present, savings and loan cooperatives are in some way of a special status. If they start attracting more and more public deposits, they could be subject to some kind of supervision. Maybe it doesn't have to be as thorough as the control of the big banks. At the same time, the difference is that according to the law, interest on bank deposits is exempt from income tax, but the interest on savings and loan cooperatives is subject to income tax. So, on the one hand, they are in a certain advantage status, they are not subject to supervision; on the other hand, they are in a heavier state. In my opinion, it could be debated how to move forward, whether these cooperatives should become more like commercial banks or move in another direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U21	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U22	Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, The comparison of the euro area central banks shows that Eesti Pank's level of equity and reserves is one of the poorest in the euro area. Last year we were, if memory doesn't fool me, fourth place from behind, now we're the last. Other countries have simply made efforts, and everyone behind it has passed us. I'm interested in that kind of thing. What can Eesti Pank and perhaps the Riigikogu do to improve this situation? And do you really have to fix it? What dangers could such a position pose to us in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U23	I'll start at the end. The risks come from the fact that before we joined the euro area, we had one kind of risk, which was that we invested our own assets and that their value could grow or decrease. But it was all reflected in our own balance sheet. Now that we are part of the euro area, decisions are different. These same monetary policy loans, securities purchases are carried out collectively, and if we make a profit on them, we will all benefit, and if any losses arise, we will distribute them. According to current rules, Estonia's participation is 0.26%, so 1/400 of all this potential income or loss is ours to bear. As long as nothing has happened, this is what, let's say, central banking is quite profitable. This year, the balance sheet of the European Central Bank has grown quite a bit, and on that we are making a margin. So it's profitable. But at the same time, we buy securities in a situation where risks are growing. So, in fact, we should not just be happy right now, but rather collect these provisions. What can we do? Of course, if we invest our money better, we can increase our revenues a little. If we are dealing with cost efficiency, we can save our costs. The next option is how much money we transfer to the state budget and how much we collect in reserve. So far, it has been a rather normal decision that we have transferred 25% to the state budget. In some years, however, this percentage has been zero, and one year before joining the euro area it was up to 57%. However, as a rule, this proportion has been a quarter. I think if we continue with this quarter, it'll take several decades before we reach our goal. But it's pretty much the way to decide that we don't put anything into the state budget and just collect reserves, maybe it wouldn't be right. Of course, this is a question of choice, and the Council can always decide otherwise, but so far the Council has decided on 25:75.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U24	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U25	Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! Last year, you instructed the Internal Audit Department to look up the documents related to Eesti Pank's VEB Fund and to evaluate the related activities. All the illiterate people of Estonia certainly welcomed this decision. This January, you presented the audit of the VEB Fund. How do you assess whether this audit answered at least most of the questions that people were interested in, or whether there were more questions, and this VEB Foundation will haunt you like in a skeleton bank safe?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U26	We did this audit with sincere intentions and took it very seriously. When we started it, we knew that we certainly wouldn't get all the answers. We could only look at our own archives, which are directly related to Eesti Pank and also to its foundation, but we did not have the opportunity to look at everything in general, particularly what happened in the private sector and what happened on the other side of the border. In this area, where we had the opportunity to act, we became more clear. Very many questions were taken off the agenda. As I have already mentioned, the documents have been largely preserved. Before the audit, the question was whether there were 108 million kroons of so-called lost money anywhere. That's what we were able to find out, and the subject was taken off. I also think we were able to focus the rest of the questions. These other issues relate mainly to TSL International, the same chain of transactions that we have pointed out. I think we did everything we could to explain these problems. Things have logically moved on and reached you as well as the National Audit Office. Let's see what happens. We are working with the relevant bodies and committees, and it would be good if we could get even more clarity. Since we can find the final truth in every nuance, it is unlikely, but a little more clarity in some areas about which Estonian people still have reasonable questions would certainly be appreciated.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U27	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U28	Mr President of the Bank. In your presentation, you also touched on the issue of the bank carrying out all kinds of economic and financial analyses in order to help the government. It is known that you have specialists with extremely high professionalism and these analyses are certainly highly competent. But my question here: how much does the government count? As we know, the Ministry of Finance is carrying out its own analyses and assessments and still tends to think theirs are better. And these estimates don't always match. It has also been the case that the central bank's forecasts are not particularly taken into account. How is this situation now? How much does the government consider you and how often does it consult you?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U29	I think these things are very hard to appreciate. In some ways, the forecasts we publish in the press and on our website are the tip of the iceberg that everyone sees. There's a lot of work going on behind the tent. We have tripartite and quadrilateral meetings with government agencies, where our specialists are able to influence the course of things through dialogue. But yes, this area is difficult to measure. I remember that in the old days, when I was a government counselor, I still wondered how much I'd affect things in the first place, it's actually very hard to appreciate. The effects may range from years to years. At the moment, we have a relatively stable situation and we are seeing developments in a similar way. I think the differences between the forecasts of Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Finance are quite minimal. If there is a new turning point in the economy, for example, two economists may see things very differently. It can never be prevented. But as I said, our relationship has been constructive over the past year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U30	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U31	Mr President of the Bank of Estonia! In recent years, the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has directed a large part of the bank's profits to core capital and reserve capital. How do you currently assess the capitalisation of Eesti Pank compared to other European central banks?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U32	As one of the former questioners mentioned, our capitalisation is still relatively low. In part, the reason for this is simply the fact that we have started later. These banks, which have had a history for several hundred years, have been able to gather reserves for a very long time. We started collecting them much later, and maybe earlier we needed them a little less. We just need to catch up a little bit, but in general, we could collect this money for quite a while.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U33	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U34	Honourable waitress! During the changeover, there were debates in this Chamber. There was also a question about what will happen to Eesti Pank. Will it become part of the central bank with minimal autonomy, or will it still maintain as much independence as is necessary to resolve Estonia's issues? How do you rate it now? It's been a while. How autonomous is Eesti Pank in practice? Does he now have more opportunities or fewer opportunities and more responsibilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U35	I think there's definitely more responsibilities. The same applies to every ministry. We also need to do things in Brussels and elsewhere. We actually need much more action in different areas. We also have more decision-making powers. Previously, when the so-called currency board system was in place and we basically imported monetary policy in the euro area, we did not have a seat at the table. Now we're learning all this, and over the years, we've been able to get more involved. All euro area central banks, plus the European Central Bank, have a fairly decentralised structure. Joint decisions are taken at a common table, where we also participate, but this policy is still largely on the ground. Some may wonder why Eesti Pank is needed at all, why it cannot be carried out in Frankfurt in any way. But they don't. Luxembourg, which did not have a central bank in the past, is the most spicy example. When this country joined the euro area, it first had to set up its own central bank, which is now bigger than Eesti Pank. All cash circulation is organised in Estonia, settlements are organised in Estonia, we conduct economic analyses, monetary policy loans are granted through Eesti Pank, etc. So actually, we have a lot of problems. There are also some areas that are not jointly decided in Europe. In particular, it concerns financial stability, which we are taking more into account Estonia's perspective, not the whole of Europe. We want financial stability in Estonia to be ensured. But we look at price stability and inflation, rather from the perspective of the euro area as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U36	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U37	Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! You have emphasised that Eesti Pank decided to allocate 25% of last year's profits, i.e. 8.5 million euros to the state budget. But, as far as I know, it contains 5.7 million estimated revenues from the so-called Greek interest rate. At the same time, it has been agreed that the ECOFIN, the European Central Bank, will be returned to Greece, which is in fact 2.8 million, or 8% of the profit, in the budget. Is that how it was agreed at the level of ECOFIN and the European Central Bank that the amount allocated by the national central banks to their national budgets would include this so-called Greek interest income or, in the case of other countries, is not what we have decided here in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U38	I don't think it was decided that way. The Eurogroup statements can be viewed, and everything is very precise. The Eurogroup is an association of finance ministers. They decided that the estimated amounts would be transferred to Greece. It clearly states that each Member State shall use its own internal procedures for the distribution of profits. The understanding is that in some countries additional reserves may be needed and then in some years the transfer from the central bank may also be smaller if Greece goes to this year. When you look at the practice of central banks, everyone can go to their homepages and study their annual accounts, you will see that some central banks have been relatively fewly transferred. For example, the German Bundesbank transferred about 90% of its profits to reserves, but only 10% went to the state budget. The Finnish central bank transferred a smaller share of its income this year than it did last year. However, these sums were still so large that they happened to cover this so-called Greek cost. So there's no such link between one and the other. Actually, it would be a little weird if it was. This would undermine the independence of central banks if the finance ministers decided something and then said, please, central bank, transfer these amounts. I don't think that's right. However, the distribution of profits must be viewed as a whole, and one important need is certainly the need to collect reserves.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U39	Thank you. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U40	Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! The new Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has said that he wants to give stronger, clearer, more concrete signals when the economic crisis is at the door. We have to let society know about this. How do you see it? What should be Eesti Pank's stronger and clearer signals to society if we are faced with new economic downturns and can predict them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U41	I think that this issue is currently being dealt with in Estonia and in any other European country. This is part of the lesson of the recent crisis, or even the current one. If we focus only on micro-prudential supervision on a bank-by-bank basis and ignore systemic risks, we may miss things. Perhaps that was the case during the last crisis. We were too optimistic and did not assess the systemic risks arising from the financial sector. A new direction across Europe, America and the rest of the world is to step up systematic surveillance. This is called macro-prudential supervision and is dealt with: all the capital directives that are now in place, all the other directives, all national activities. Eesti Pank is trying to create additional instruments in case there is a boom risk again. We hope to ensure more opportunities, not just advance warning. This is also important, and it can always be done. I think Eesti Pank also did so five or six years ago. If you look at our statements at the time, you'll see that it was. But now there is also a need for additional instruments. That's what we do. So in that sense, my understanding is similar to that of Mart Laar.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U42	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U43	Mr Hansson! At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I also realized that this issue of allocation with the Ministry of Finance is more of a matter of independence for you than anything else. In fact, the size of Eesti Pank's budget allocation to the state budget has been the subject of disputes almost every year. The government certainly wants to get more, let alone the Riigikogu, and give you as little as possible. But here's my point. Since the Council has so far declared the need to increase the bank's reserves in a fairly general way, it would suddenly be reasonable, as the Government of the Republic is preparing a budget strategy for three years, that the Board of the Bank will determine the principles of raising the reserves more precisely for a period of three years in order to avoid these disputes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U44	I think that if you do that, on the one hand, you will create some additional clarity, on the other hand, you will tie your hands and reduce the room for manoeuvre. I'm sure these choices have their pros and cons. The current Council has endorsed a profit-sharing strategy that it can change every year. Perhaps, however, the existence of this strategy will help to ensure some sort of stability, and perhaps the same is true of the management of public finances. If there is a medium-term strategy, it will help to create stability, but it must certainly be possible to correct it if an emergency situation arises.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U45	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U46	Mr President, A short time ago, the employees of Eesti Pank had an exclusive opportunity to obtain housing loans from the bank on preferential terms. Is this option even now, and do you consider it right or worthwhile to develop the idea so that everyone can obtain a loan from Eesti Pank on favourable terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U47	We have had three types of loans: housing loans, consumer loans and student loans. A few months ago, at the beginning of the year, we stopped granting consumer loans because we felt that this was not feasible. But I think student loans are quite reasonable. As far as consumer loans and housing loans are concerned, I am now pleased that we have had them. I would not say that they have been granted on special preferential terms. I think they were created at a time when Eesti Pank also exercised financial supervision. It was then very clear that it was intended to reduce the potential conflict of interest slightly and that it would be good if the bank's staff did not have large loans in the same commercial banks that they were supervising. Today, we do not directly monitor this. If society considers that there is no problem as to how much of the staff of the central bank takes from commercial mortgage banks, then of course it can be debated. I'm not quick to review it, but the question is very legitimate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U48	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U49	The issue concerns Greek bonds and the proceeds from them to the European central banks. If I understand correctly, this revenue is roughly two parts. One is the difference between the nominal value and the market value of bonds, which is a purely accounting amount until those bonds are redeemed. Is it theoretically possible that we are now paying this other half of the income to the Greek Treasury, but since these bonds will not be fully redeemed, this money will not actually be created later?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U50	I think there's a theoretical possibility. It's really an accounting income. Interest income has already been received by us, and this other party you mentioned will be reflected in our accounts in a purely accounting manner. That money will come to our senses when all the bonds are paid off at the end of the whole process. But yes, theoretically, this risk exists and that's why we need to collect reserves.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U51	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U52	Let me ask you a more philosophical question. Some time ago, when we approved the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Bank in this Chamber, the Head of the Monetary Commission announced that he felt that this chairman of the Supervisory Board was a very good option, because then Eesti Pank will be run according to the right-wing world view. However, he could not answer the question of how the management of the central bank on the left or right scale might differ. Do you have any idea how the management of a bank might differ on such a political scale?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U53	As I mentioned in my speech, we have tried to be independent and competent. The whole of society must assess how independent we are and how much we have been able to separate ourselves from day-to-day politics. I think that if we stick to the overall macroeconomic indicators, if we comment, based on very competent analyses, and take the floor, say, about the overall size of the budget deficit, or whatever is our competence, then everything is fine and we cannot say that we have left-wing or right-wing views. We have tried not to speak on day-to-day issues. It has often been asked what our opinion is when it comes to tax policy, but we do not want to speak on these issues. At the same time, if things in Estonia are to move in such a way that the overall size of the deficit is growing to such an extent that, according to our technical analysis, it will threaten the macro-stability of Estonia, then we will certainly speak out as professionals on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U54	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U55	Good Governor of Eesti Pank! Jaan Männik, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, has said that there is too much duplication in Estonia in the process of financial analysis. Eesti Pank is doing financial analyses, the Ministry of Finance is doing financial analyses, and the Financial Supervision Authority is too much for a country the size of Estonia. What's your position? Do you share Jaan Männik's position, or do you disagree?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U56	If we had ten agencies doing the analysis, maybe it would be too much. However, if we had one institution that would do so, it would be too little. I believe that two or three institutions that can compare information and share ideas, learn from each other, are the best solution. In a way, certain things are predestined. It is probably impossible to foresee that Eesti Pank or the Ministry of Finance would give up the economic analysis. The Ministry of Finance must draw up the budget and this analysis is needed. We analyse the state of affairs because we have a role to play in the Eurosystem's forecasts. We need to have a say there, we cannot send a representative from the Ministry of Finance to the European Central Bank. I guess pulling a line is a matter of feeling. Maybe in some areas we can specialize a little more, but in general, this competence must be in two or three institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U57	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U58	Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! SMS loans are known to have caused many problems in society. A few weeks ago, there was some intention to improve the law in this Chamber, but I think it was a partial option. The percentage rates of charge are very high. Do you think we could also bring SMS lenders under the control of the Financial Supervision Authority?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U59	I know it's been discussed. I have not followed it in detail, but at least as a citizen, I am pleased that it is being dealt with. It bothers me, though, that it's just so advanced. Some kind of additional supervision, the possibility of registration would certainly be good. Where it should be exactly, is the second question. We're studying the experiences of other countries, maybe there's some good model we can take over. One option is certainly if this control were more on the side of consumer protection. The Financial Supervision Authority has rather focused on the liabilities side to ensure capital supervision and to ensure that any institution that raises deposits is adequately capitalised and solvent. The active side, i.e. all lending, borrowing has been more the competence of consumer protection. It is certainly worth examining these matters and it must be ensured that the Financial Supervision Authority is not overburdened with tasks. If his mandate becomes very broad, it will be harder for him to choose what to do and what not to do. However, the work of the Financial Supervision Authority should maintain a certain focus. But the one whose competence this problem could be, I think, is more of a technical issue. I think it is worth moving in this direction to improve supervision and regulation in this area at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U60	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U61	Dear waitress, the bank manager! In this report, you write that as the central bank of the euro area, Eesti Pank is responsible for meeting the demand for euro banknotes and coins and maintaining safe cash stocks for circulation in the Republic of Estonia. The share of electronic payment instruments is increasing, but cash still works. It is one of the symbols of stability and security in society, as you say. Would you forecast when this ratio will be fully in favour of electronic means of payment, for example, in the euro area?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U62	I don't know how to predict it. The share of electronic payment instruments will certainly continue to increase. In Estonia it is bigger than in many other countries, we have developed faster with our whole e-field. When you move around elsewhere in Europe, it is sometimes difficult to pay with a card in some places. At the same time, I can't imagine the full replacement of cash with settlement money. There are certainly areas where cash fulfils its objectives. But the general trend, of course, is one-way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U63	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U64	Mr President, thank you for your very thorough answers. My question concerns the fact that much has been said recently about the independence of Eesti Pank, especially since Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi has taken the decision that interest on Greek bonds owned by Eesti Pank must be repaid. Would Eesti Pank itself have had the opportunity to make such a decision if it had not been done by the finance ministers of the euro area? The second question is whether you consider this decision justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U65	Here we must look at the treaties. The Treaties certainly say that central banks must not finance governments directly. So if you're asking me if we can do this so directly, I'm not a lawyer, but I think that's a no. At the same time, governments and parliaments have absolute competence to take such decisions collectively. The way in which the system has been structured, namely that the finance ministers have taken an important decision, can be assessed in many ways. Some think it's positive, some think it's negative. But it was a difficult decision, it was not the case that one solution is black and the other white, that one choice is clearly better than the other. These are very high risks. We are now seeing that the Greek situation has not yet stabilised one hundred percent, but there are certain promising signals. As Governor of Eesti Pank, I do not want to make an assessment of all of this in one sentence here, but I believe that national governments have competence. Since the other details were also stated that the central banks share their profits on the basis of existing national rules of procedure, it is believed that everything is in order.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U66	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr. Governor of Eesti Pank, for your presentation and your answer to questions! I'm opening negotiations. I would first like to call on my colleague, Mr Sõerdi, to speak as a representative of the Group of the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U67	Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank the Governor of Eesti Pank for his comprehensive overview. He also presented the annual report at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs very thoroughly, and he also sent additional material today. The Commission's interest was high. There are also several reasons for this. First of all, participating in the European Central Bank system is still a relatively new experience for Eesti Pank in the second year, but Eesti Pank has made a very good contribution to this role. On the other hand, there is, of course, an increased interest in the operation of the European Central Bank system throughout the euro area as a result of the fact that the European Central Bank has proved to be a decisive player in stabilising the debt crisis in the euro area. This was seen last year as a result of both the central bank's emergency measures and its strong statements. The central bank, of course, said that it would intervene as much as necessary. As a result of this statement, financial market turbulence eased and the situation at the end of last year became much more stable than it was at the beginning of the year. The exceptional measures could be described as the second three-year refinancing operation last year, continued transactions on the bond markets under the covered bond purchase programme and a new programme for outright monetary policy transactions was announced. However, these measures must take into account that, although they have halted the deepening of the debt crisis, the root causes of the crisis are far from being eliminated. Very many countries in the euro area have excessive public debt and interest burden, and as long as debt has not fallen to sustainable levels, we cannot talk about resolving the debt crisis. Secondly, the main problem posed by the European Central Bank's emergency measures and extensive intervention is that intervention on the financial markets always diminishes the motivation of troubled countries to carry out structural reforms in order to lead public finances on a sustainable path. It is true that the central bank has promised that strict conditions will also be agreed for future interventions. However, I would like to say here that, if, in the case of Greece, Portugal and other programme countries, these rules have been established from the outset, the central bank's announcement published at the beginning of this year shows that the central bank bought bonds amounting to EUR 208 billion under the first securities programme, the SMP. 208 billion! And half of that, 99 billion euros is Italian bonds. But no one has agreed any country-specific programme with Italy. Thus, about half of the central bank's first emergency intervention has gone into operation without any conditions or programmes. Of course, these securities programmes must take into account that these investments involve high financial risks. The Eurosystem's balance sheet contains the bonds of troubled countries, as I said, amounting to 208 billion and these bonds are recorded in the balance sheet of Eesti Pank for an amount of 341 million euros. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U68	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U69	If the issuing countries are able to fulfil their obligations, Eesti Pank will earn income from them, but if payments are interrupted and the guarantees are insufficient, losses will have to be incurred. Therefore, these bonds bear a real risk. At this point, I would also like to mention the profit distribution of Eesti Pank. As it turned out, this EUR 8,5 billion EUR 5,7 billion is the so-called "targeted amount' that has been decided to return to Greece. Our central bank must increase reserves, but if it is agreed that 25% should go to the budget, there will be problems. We don't see any more money. I have the question here for the members of the Council: do you not care about the amount of revenue from the state budget? It is still a very large amount of money from the budget, and Estonia's own reserves are not increasing at the moment, rather decreasing. As I said, the public is very interested in the decisions of the European Central Bank, and that is why the direction of Eesti Pank towards greater openness is very welcome. It is true that the decisions taken by the Eurosystem Governing Council are, as a rule, market sensitive and it is entirely justified that the public cannot know in advance the measures envisaged or the specific intervention plans and their scope, but the decisions already taken and the measures taken should certainly be fully explained to the public. In this way, Eesti Pank could explain even more than before the positions expressed and protected in the central bank's supervisory board. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U70	Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. I would like to ask my colleague, Kalev Kallo, to speak as a representative of the Centre Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U71	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, thank the President of the Bank for an extremely interesting and thorough report and for the exhaustive answers to the questions. The Eesti Pank Annual Report 2012 discussed here today is the second time that Eesti Pank has worked in the euro zone. Some of the activities that seemed novel in 2011 and required thorough prior examination and a cautious approach were already becoming a daily routine in 2012. In the course of two years, the Governor of Eesti Pank has taken part in all decisions concerning the Eurosystem as a decision-maker, as a member of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank. The joint implementation of the Eurosystem's decisions in Estonia is the task of Eesti Pank, not the European Central Bank. Since today, in this Chamber, the report and the problems it addresses were discussed very thoroughly in the form of questions and answers, and everyone has the report at hand, I am not directly talking about its content. I want to touch on a couple of points of view that are sometimes expressed in the press and in the sentiments. Firstly, since we are now part of the European Central Bank and decisions are taken there anyway, we no longer need such a number of staff in our central bank, a much smaller number of people would be sufficient to only mediate the orders and orders coming from Europe. This is a very simplified and inadequate understanding. Decisions are not taken from scratch, decisions are preceded by in-depth analyses of a large number of working groups. Now our central bank representatives have the opportunity to participate in all these working groups, to speak up and to direct the decisions they make. If we wanted to have a say in all areas, the composition of Eesti Pank should be much bigger, but it is certainly not feasible for a small country. This is why Eesti Pank's task is to decide what are the areas where we can also provide our own know-how where we feel confident and focus with specialists on these areas. In other areas that we cannot actively cover, we must probably limit ourselves to the provision of information. As we learned today in the round of questions and answers, Luxembourg was forced to set up its own central bank in connection with the entry into the euro area, and this is now more than Estonia's. So what we are saying is that we no longer need so many employees now is unfounded, even for this reason. There have also been statements that the maintenance of Eesti Pank is too expensive for Estonian society. This position, too, is somewhat incomprehensible. After all, as an institution independent of the government, Eesti Pank has not spent a cent of taxpayers' money, on the contrary, in almost all recent years the bank has allocated up to 25% of its profits to support the state budget. In most cases, this 'up'has meant a full 25%. It is certainly not right to talk here about dear support for society. I think it is important to acknowledge that Eesti Pank has been well profitable in the current financial situation in Europe and not only in Europe. This is only possible thanks to very professional workers. A reduction in the number of employees, as suggested by some people, would jeopardise the bank's successful functioning. Thirdly, it is extremely important that, while euro area central banks have additional credit risk, which is primarily related to monetary policy operations, the revenues and costs associated with these operations are shared, taking into account the share of central banks in the balance sheet of the European Central Bank. It can be said that the risks of Eesti Pank have also increased as a result of the financial crisis in the euro area. Consequently, the size of equity and reserve capital has become particularly important. When I was here a year ago, when Eesti Pank's 2011 report was discussed, in my speech I was able to say that we are fourth in proportion to the share of equity of other national central banks in the total capital of the Eurosystem, now unfortunately, we were the last at the end of 2012. Last but not least, the central banks, which were behind us a year ago, took the situation seriously and increased their reserves sharply. Now we are the last in the euro zone. In view of this situation, 25% of the profits, i.e. EUR 8.5 million, cannot be considered valid this year either. It has been said that the profits from Greek bonds must be returned to Greece. But it was the decision of the Eurosystem's finance ministers, which should not bind the central bank as an institution independent of the government with any responsibilities. Besides, it was known that our Minister of Finance made this decision without prior authorisation from the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U72	Thank you very much, Mr Kallas. I would like to ask my colleague, Mrs Vassilyev, to speak as a representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U73	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit, I wasn't planning on coming to the speaker's desk. My coming here was motivated by the speech of a good colleague, Aivar Sõerd, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I fully agree with my colleague that it cannot be said that the European crisis is over, that we call it the financial crisis or the debt crisis, how anyone likes it better, or both together. There is no doubt that this crisis still exists and the central bank has brought some relief to it by interfering with its bond markets, also reducing emotional uncertainty. The markets have developed a more calm environment, but the problems are undoubtedly not over. As far as different countries are concerned, some of them have major concerns about the implementation of structural reforms, but more generally the creation of competitiveness not only by reducing the cost of inputs to export goods and services, for example by lowering wages, but also by adding much more value to exported goods. The central bank's actions have undoubtedly had a calming effect on the markets, but it may slightly reduce the motivation of troubled countries to address their concerns rapidly. On the other hand, what we are denying here is that this side-by-side intervention, if we buy bonds on the secondary market, could reduce the investor's incentive to buy these same bonds on the primary market, i.e. to grant loans to the countries. I'm sure you'll have to be quite careful about this, so-called border. Undoubtedly, these bond purchases are not risk-free, which was also mentioned by a good colleague from the Reform Party. As the securities programme, or SMP, assesses bonds on the banks' balance sheets with a nominal value which is much higher than the market value, this means that the balance sheet does not actually take into account the risks of the same bonds as the market expects. So there are risks for the banks. In this regard, I wonder, since on the one hand, the Reform Party is saying that the problems are in the air and should be acted conservatively, but when it comes to the distribution of the central bank's so-called accounting money first to and from the state budget to Greece, it is extremely optimistic, i.e. it is assumed that everything will materialise exactly as the nominal value would suggest. I don't understand that a little bit. Doesn't seem very logical if the situation is still considered risky. I do agree with the solution of real money earned through bond yields. In this regard, it can really be considered that if the euro area has a desire to support problem countries, such as Greece, in addition to what has been agreed so far, perhaps this can be done. It's a place of decision. But it is highly questionable to share the so-called accounting profit in a situation that is certainly not yet stable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U74	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. There are no more requests, I will conclude the negotiations and also the debate on the first point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U75	The second item on our agenda is the 2012 report of the Financial Supervision Authority. Before I invite Raul Malmstein, the Chairman of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, to speak to you, I will show you how this debate is taking place. First, Raul Malmstein, Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, will be a presentation lasting up to 20 minutes. The next question is to the waitress. May I have your attention, please? Every member of the Riigikogu can ask one question. Since then, there are negotiations in which only representatives of the political groups can take part. Now I ask Raul Malmstein, Chairman of the Board of the Honourable Financial Supervision Authority, to begin his presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U76	Dear President of the Riigikogu and members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for the opportunity to give you an overview of our activities last year and the challenges we are facing on the basis of the Financial Supervision Authority's annual report. In my presentation, I touch on five issues. Firstly, developments in European markets and the creation of a single banking supervision. Last year was also a difficult year for financial markets. The deepening of the spring financial crisis in several large euro-zone countries led to radical solutions to alleviate problems and, if possible, eliminate them. These decisions were particularly influenced by the situation in countries where the deep problems between the banking sector and the country's own potential solvency made the price of money both for the banking sector and for the country such that it was necessary to seek a broad-based solution to the problems encountered. The summer European Council proposed a very ambitious and radical solution based on the creation of a single banking supervision with the European Central Bank. The system was also underpinned by the creation of a pan-European guarantee fund and legal and organisational solutions to restore the financial position of troubled banks as efficiently and rapidly as possible. According to the initial schedule, a single banking supervision was to be created by the beginning of this year, but so quickly it did not prove to be appropriate or feasible. It is now reasonable to believe that banking supervision will start working with the European Central Bank in the summer of 2014. Of the larger banks operating in Estonia, Swedbank and SEB, as well as the Norwegian bank with a subsidiary bank in Estonia, will be directly supervised by the European Central Bank, but its share in our market is still very small. Today, we cannot say with certainty what will be the practical division of labour between the European Central Bank's banking supervision and the Financial Supervision Authority, but it is all assumed that the model of cooperation that we have been working across borders with our colleagues in recent years will apply here, and we will remain actively involved in the supervision of credit institutions that are systemically important for us, both in solo form and in group. I must stress here that we continue to consider it important that, if the new model of banking supervision is implemented, the Nordic consensus model, based on active and open dialogue and mutual respect, can be maintained. We are actively involved in the creation of a single banking supervision in several working groups of the European Central Bank, which are working intensively to create a new organisational model. To give you a picture of the size of the new structure, I will give you an example of the number of employees in the new banking supervision, which probably exceeds 800 people. The staff should be set up and the organisation fully operational by the middle of next year. Here I want to move to another issue. I'm talking about the Financial Supervision Authority. Jaan Männik, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, has said publicly on several occasions that the Financial Supervision Authority is too large and expensive for the Estonian state to maintain, stressing the importance of an effective and thin organisation. As a tax payer, on a purebsttract level, of course, I can only agree with Mr Männiku: the more efficient and cheaper the organisation, the better. However, I cannot agree that such arguments will be presented without any substantive analysis. We have chosen to be part of Europe and its core. Europe has chosen to make the internal market work effectively, especially in the financial field. The Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) will be established under the leadership of the euro area. It would be naive to think that we can carry out new tasks without making a significant contribution to it. The Financial Supervision Authority has 80 posts. It's not much. We must contribute to the implementation of the SSM and to the creation of a single European supervision in general, while at the same time ensuring financial stability in the home market, which is our main task. The Financial Supervision Authority will therefore face important challenges in the coming years. Surely these challenges for the organization will change. Effectiveness and professionalism are key words, but is it possible to do this with the current 80 employees? I doubt it. To give a practical example of participation in the operation of single banking supervision, or SSM, the head of supervision of Estonia will start making supervisory decisions with colleagues from next year and will be responsible for them throughout the scope of the SSM, i.e. in an area that covers the banking sector of the euro area as a whole and perhaps the banking sector of another country, if there are other entrants. The future work and responsibility here is certainly not about one person attending meetings in Frankfurt, but it requires deep knowledge of the whole banking sector in the euro area and strong domestic work in order to shape their positions. Knowing how complex and time-consuming it is for the banking sector to process a wide range of permits, I do not think there is any way to underestimate the amount of work that my colleagues will soon have to do so so that we can make an adequate contribution to the decision-making process. Since we do not have to deal with the above every day, we do not yet have the resources to do so. Thirdly, I am talking about the home market and the risks. The Estonian banking market has been most affected by continued moderate economic growth and the fall in unemployment below 10% at the end of last year. Estonian companies have managed to be relatively successful in export markets. This has all influenced the improvement in the quality of the credit portfolio of banks. However, financial supervision cannot allow itself to be sedated from these positive developments. Although the Swedish banking sector is considered to be very strong and the regulator has taken steps to further influence the credit quality of banks and ensure the adequacy of liquidity portfolios, negative developments can never be ruled out. For example, the Nordic real estate markets have not had to undergo a significant correction. There is also the possibility that the economic downturn will re-extend to our main export markets, which could lead to difficulties in Estonian export-oriented economic sectors. As an important development, I would like to mention the continued rapid growth of deposits, which has enabled our credit institutions to significantly reduce their dependence on the funding of parent banks. The rapid growth of deposits is probably also partly linked to the fact that consumers' confidence in more complex financial instruments has been weakened in a very difficult market situation that has been going on for a long time. While this reduces consumer risks, it may not be the optimal medium-term strategy to increase its savings, even if inflation is taken into account. As a whole, the banking sector is highly capitalised and the return on equity remains high. The continued very low level of EURIBOR reduced the profitability of banks to some extent in 2012, but so far credit institutions have responded very effectively by optimising their cost base. In the latter case, it is very important to ensure that optimisation does not entail increased risks in the organisation of the work of "non-productive" structural entities such as risk management and compliance control. The high capitalisation of the banking sector would theoretically also provide an opportunity for more aggressive sales and a new loan boom, but fortunately there are no signs of this at present. In the non-life insurance sector, last year was a positive year. The loss ratio was low and the improved economic climate facilitated the sale of various insurance products. The decline has also been halted in the life insurance sector, where there are indications that the sale of some products intended for saving will increase, although the demand for long-term savings products has remained at a low level for a long time. In summary, the higher risks are currently more related to the parent banks of financial groups operating on the Estonian market, which are exposed to potential risks in domestic markets and indirectly to potential negative developments in the euro area banking market. We will be careful that cost efficiency does not lead to cost cuts in risk management and the quality of issuing new loans is maintained. As one of the possible preventive measures, it might be important to introduce stricter regulatory standards in the Estonian banking sector, in parallel to Sweden, on liquidity management as well as on the guarantee, duration and solvency of borrowers. Fourthly, I am talking about developments in service supervision, the work of paying agencies and the promotion of financial literacy. As a new sector, the second year was supervised by the Financial Supervision Authority by paying agencies, whose business culture shows significant differences in relation to other financial markets. The interest in market entry in this sector has been high and there are still new market entrants. However, the first supervisory experience shows that, while we have sought to assess the background of those entering the market as objectively and thoroughly as possible within the framework set by law, we have already been forced to take the extreme measure at our disposal, i.e. the withdrawal of the licence. In particular, the activities of one paying agency did not comply with the requirements of the law. Several other market players have so far been thoroughly inspected on the spot. On-the-spot checks and, where appropriate, intervention by law enforcement authorities have drastically reduced the business volume of some paying agencies, which in general is certainly not the main objective of financial supervision. Rather, it may have shown that the activities of some paying agencies may not always have been in line with the content and meaning of the laws. However, this assessment should not be extended to all paying agencies. When it comes to the supervision of services, I consider it important to emphasise two main lines of action. Firstly, we have constantly increased the number of on-the-spot checks to determine directly and thoroughly whether the laws and the requirements of the Financial Supervision Authority's guidelines have been met. Although, due to the high number of inspections and their different focus, no comprehensive generalisations can be made, an overall assessment shows that the rules are generally followed and the shortcomings found are remedied within a reasonable period of time. Service supervision also deals with pension fund issues. In addition to the usual controls, last year we carried out an analysis of the allocation of assets of pension funds with different risk weights and the related fees. Our main conclusion was that the placement of higher-risk pension funds' assets has become more passive, i.e. more investments are made in other funds, but this is not reflected in any way in the management fees to be undertaken. We have submitted proposals based on the analysis to the Ministry of Finance. With the financial literacy project, we have taken a major step forward. At the end of the year, our new version of the consumer website was completed, which is now designed to be a web centred on life events, although information can still be obtained from a purely service-based perspective. We are pleased to note that the information days organised by our staff at schools and workplaces and cooperation with our partners have increased people's awareness of the need to plan their finances and of the risks and opportunities associated with the choice of services. The Ministry of Finance has just completed a national programme to promote financial literacy, which I hope will help to organise work in this area even better, and the Financial Supervision Authority will act as coordinator of the implementation of the programme. The fifth, but not the least important issue I will be on, is the securities market. Investors' and issuers' interest in the Tallinn Stock Exchange remains rather lukewarm and trading activity is still low. A low-quality market for various corporate news poses a risk of some investors trying to exploit this market situation for illegal purposes. In criminal proceedings initiated in cooperation with the prosecutor's office, the Supreme Court issued a case with the value of precedent for the market manipulation of Toomas Tool and Karoly Kirber, which is also necessary for the Financial Supervision Authority to shape its future activities. The Estonian securities market still has room for improvement in the field of financial reporting and also in ensuring the transparency of corporate governance. Since 2006, the Financial Supervision Authority has analysed how issuers comply with the Corporate Governance Report. Although all stock exchange companies produce and publish a corporate governance report, these reports echo the undertone that our public companies do not want to provide meaningful explanations as to why they do not follow the recommendations of corporate governance in one case or another. Perhaps there is somewhere to look for an answer to the question of why pension funds have not been very active when investing in the local market. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Last year was a year of major changes in European financial markets. The decisions taken at European level, in particular the creation of the SSM, will also have a significant impact on our work. I hope that the Financial Supervision Authority will continue to work effectively to maintain financial stability in the home market, but it must go hand in hand with the ever-new challenges at European level, particularly with regard to the introduction of a single banking supervision from the middle of the new year. I also hope that the Financial Supervision Authority will continue its natural and dynamic development and will be able to solve new challenges. Finally. Since this is probably my last presentation here before you, I would like to thank all my colleagues from the Financial Supervision Authority, who have made a very important contribution to the work of this organisation in these eight years and have ensured that financial stability on the Estonian market continues. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U77	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U78	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, According to the Financial Supervision Authority Act, credit institutions, i.e. banks whose main business is to grant loans and receive deposits, are subject to supervision by the supervisory authority. Unfortunately, the SMS and fast-lending sector would need to be repaired most in the Estonian financial market. How do you assess the current situation in the fast-track credit market and which authority should supervise this sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U79	Thank you. As a citizen, I certainly consider this issue to be very important. If you listen to the car radio, you get the feeling that it is a dominant sector in the Estonian economy or society, which you have to talk about all the time. The Consumer Protection Board is currently responsible for this issue. The question is whether they could be strengthened to some extent or whether this issue should come into the portfolio of the Financial Supervision Authority. As my previous speaker pointed out here, Mr Hansson, President of Eesti Pank, there is a danger that if our portfolio is brought into the next topic and the tasks are growing at European level, the focus will tend to dissipate and we will not be able to cover all this work with current resources. When we started dealing with paying agencies as a new issue, life showed that, although this sector is marginal, the supervisory burden there is enormous. If the supervision of fast-track loans were to be dealt with by the Financial Supervision Authority, which I cannot rule out, it would require additional resources, which we unfortunately do not have at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U80	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U81	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I will continue with the question of my colleague, Mr Stalnukhin, by going to be quite specific. If, after all, the legislator should decide or at least think about putting the issue of fast-track loans under the supervision of your administration, I will have one question. Studies show that the number of users of these loans in Estonia is around 100 thousand, there are no guarantees for these people, and they often find themselves in a loan trap from their own stupidity. What legal means of control could your supervisory authority have in this case? Let's fantasize a little bit. What is needed to control and suppress the activities of consumer lending companies? It should be taken into account that Finns regulate this area very strongly and these companies can come to Estonia from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U82	Thank you for your question. Certainly, the first two issues are always linked to market entry. Firstly, there should be certain capital requirements for these companies. I believe that the vast majority of companies currently active in the sector will overcome this obstacle if necessary. Another important component is the fit and profile of drivers in our context. I can't tell you if all the people working in companies that are currently in the market can pass this test. As far as the so-called lending process itself is concerned, it is certainly much more difficult to control. This would require very large resources from us. I do not know exactly what additional requirements can be imposed. I understand that the Riigikogu has already discussed whether to legitimise the interest ceiling when granting loans. This is certainly one way in which this can be contained to some extent. If this ceiling is quite low, the efficiency of operating these companies could be significantly reduced. It is expected that the quality of their loan portfolio will not be very good and that they will inevitably face capital problems. This ceiling would certainly be positive for consumers who consume this service for one reason or another, and this would, to some extent, limit the growth of these companies, as this ceiling could start to eat their equity capital at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U83	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U84	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It is no secret to anyone that the fees for Swedish banks represented in Estonia in the motherland are much lower than here. It is also understandable that the Financial Inspectorate here may not be able to intervene directly. However, we are in a united European Union and maybe we could turn to some bodies in the European Union. Unfortunately, Sweden is not a member of the euro zone, so the possibilities are therefore a little more complicated. But has the Financial Supervision Authority tried to make some kind of appeal or suggestion or draw attention to this issue, because it is not now equal treatment in a single European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U85	Thank you. You yourself mentioned that this issue is not our competence because price competition is free on the market. However, we have been able to make our proposals on pension fund issues. Over the years, we have made our proposals to the Ministry of Finance, and I have raised this issue repeatedly from this speaker. Some changes in this segment of the market have already taken place and maybe more will take place in the future. But if we are simply talking about day-to-day banking, even online banking, it is free of competition and it is not possible to limit it under the Estonian laws in force. The banks will also not be able to enter into agreements with each other, because then we would already be talking about the cartel. I don't know how to give you a good solution. No European body in Estonia can intervene directly on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U86	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Chairman of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority! Indeed, the current Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has on several occasions hinted at your organisation and perhaps also your work. You said nicely today that there hasn't been an analysis. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has certainly not made any criticism; perhaps he has simply drawn attention to the subject. After saying this, have you ordered an analysis of your company's activities? Have you thought about expanding or narrowing the scope for action? Have you analyzed your own activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U88	Thank you. We have not commissioned any specific analyses, but this issue has been addressed in our Council. If we're looking at the manning of the Financial Supervision Authority, I think it's an extremely thin organization. We have a huge volume of international communication (three European supervisory authorities, plus the ESRB with the European Central Bank), but only one external relations coordinator, one staff member and one public relations person. The rest of the staff are all experts in most cases, and we barely have one person to take any risk. We can easily order any analysis, because they'll probably find that we're underbuilt, not overbuilt. I think that, if you approach this thing analytically, it will not be possible to obtain such a result that the Financial Inspectorate is overcrowded. In that sense, I don't see where such a debate could lead. I am just a little bit sorry that Mr Männik did not communicate with the board of the Financial Supervision Authority and did not try to go into the subject before making his statements. These sayings came to us like a lightning out of the blue, if I may say so, and it is not clear what they are based on. As I said in my speech, a smaller number always sounds nicer on a purest level, but I also think that the highest value for society is still financial stability, that it is possible to get your money out of your bank every day, that life insurance or property insurance policy actually works, that funds are really there and that they are subject to constant supervision. That's the value we're offering. If it exists, then maybe it feels like what it is. The problem arises when this value suddenly disappears. I think that, given the current manhood, we can ensure financial stability by working at the border with our capabilities. But if there are new tasks at European level or if the legislator wants to give us additional tasks, we will no longer be able to cope with the current resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U89	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You mentioned earlier that your term of office as Head of the Financial Supervision Authority is coming to an end. Your reign in financial supervision was also the financial crisis in the euro area. Can you briefly say what was the most significant lesson for you in this crisis for the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U91	Thank you for a very good question. It made me think right away. If I look at this issue from the point of view of the Financial Supervision Authority, as a positive point of view, I would take with me that our house was conditionally prepared for this crisis. All supervisory structures, people and cooperation with our credit institutions worked relatively impeccablely. That's positive. If the next crisis should come in the future, there will certainly be questions here, especially if we look at this issue in society at large. We work very closely with Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Finance on how to ensure even better and more effective information for the public, interpreting different events and their potential impact on the Estonian financial sector. This is certainly an area where you need to learn how to behave so that there are no mini-panics. There have been little moments of panic here over the years. Luckily, they have never escalated. But it is informing the public, and always providing accurate, objective and rapid information, that is probably something that needs to be further worked on.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U92	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U93	Thank you. Honourable performer! I'll pick up where you're finished right now. My question is about communication and the public. You said your house was well prepared for the crisis. However, I recall a number of pricks from the press when the Financial Supervision Authority has been criticised for not warning the public during the period of sovereign debt, did not knock on people's consciences so as not to take so much credit. Neither Eesti Pank nor the Financial Supervision Authority did so at that time. I've got a lot of these publications in my home folder.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U94	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the right question. As far as the most intensive loan boom in 2005-2006 is concerned, we really did not have the kind of 'public product' that could have provided the public with more information. That doesn't mean we didn't monitor those risks ourselves. I remember very well this time, I had just taken office. We met with the Vice-President and Head of Supervision of the Central Bank of Sweden and drew attention to possible threats. I have to admit, at the time, they were trying to calm us down, that all of this was manageable. But now, if we go to the conclusions, I am pleased to note that we opened our consumer web site www.minuraha.ee between 2006 and 2007. We have developed it very intensively. What was at first just a consumer web has become a programme of financial literacy. I think that if an analogous bubble emerges, we now have a much stronger instrumentarium to communicate with the public. For our part, we are trying to give everything to ensure that as many people as possible can learn about such an independent, objective and very comprehensive source of information. This is our task, which we need to deal with now. But this toolbox is much better for us now than it was in 2005-2006. At that time, the main work was communication with other supervisory authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U95	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Malmstein! I'm going to the loan issue. I ask you precisely in this key, as the Riigikogu has repeatedly debated and discussed here. What should be the bank's liability when the real estate is clearly overvalued and what should be the responsibility of each individual borrower? If you, politely said, have a building in the middle of swamps or water, the estimated cost of which does not correspond at all to the loan you took, even if you have paid back the sale price, you will probably pay three or four former kroons million for the next 30 years. What should be the bank's responsibility and the responsibility of the individual?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U97	Thank you for your question. The responsibility is both, it can't be said that it's only on one side. As far as the banking sector is concerned, we have regulated it quite thoroughly with a code of conduct for responsible lending, which requires various, if I may say so, customer checks and a very thorough analysis of its solvency. This must also be the result of a very correct valuation of the property to be purchased and sold. Yes, you are right in the sense that, in our supervisory history, we have received various complaints that suggest that banks have given a little too easily, for one reason or another, given the solvency of borrowers in particular. In such a case that the property was very misjudged, I haven't been able to get to know it. However, I think that the situation is much better now. I'm sure we'll have a much better toolbox to get the banks in order. As I pointed out in my speech, there are also proposals that the Governor of Eesti Pank's regulation could strengthen the regulation on the criteria for loans issued, so that is the duration, the actual guarantee of the loan or the solvency of the client.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U98	Thank you. Please, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U99	Thank you. Dear waitress, In the Riigikogu's proceedings, there is a bill that was intended to put a ceiling on the cost of SMS loans in the meantime. What is the opinion of the Financial Supervision Authority, would it be wise to go to Finland on a road with such a ceiling or roof?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U100	Thank you for your question. I may have touched on this in part in one of the previous answers. If I'm speaking purely hypothetically, it's definitely a possibility, but this ceiling should be low enough. However, if it is brought from 200% to 100% or from 100% to 100%, its effect is marginal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U101	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U102	Thank you, Madam President. Head of the Board of the Good Financial Supervision Authority! The procedure of the Riigikogu is to amend the Financial Supervision Authority Act, which entrusts the Financial Supervision Authority with the responsibility for developing the financial literacy of people and companies. I understand you weren't under the law before. So why did you still perform this task?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U103	Thank you for your question. Again, I refer to an earlier response. Life showed that people had little awareness of and understanding financial issues, and then we reacted. We've also been conducting interviews. One survey showed that people's financial literacy was very poor. We were given such a soft mandate in the Financial Supervision Authority Act, let's say so. Our sense of mission meant to do this thing as well as possible. Now I hope you will give us a clearer mandate to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U104	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Raul Malmstein! We're going to negotiate. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin as representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U105	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, When we talk about the financial market, the key word should be'market'. The market is a place where people and organisations with different opportunities are offered services at all levels. If you're a rich and successful businessman, you have some options. But then you're clearly a minority. The majority of the financial market uses other options. About an hour ago, I decided to try to take this opportunity, which, as is said on the Internet, has been used by over 300,000 people in Estonia. I've decided I'll take a quick loan. I went to the computer, and since I don't know which companies are doing this business, I opened Google, created the word "mobile loan," I put a "SMS loan" on it, and I started looking. That was pretty instructive. There are eight companies that are promoted directly in Google, and they are quite strong companies. I did not have the goal of studying the SMS credit market in Estonia, but I think there are more of these companies. There's a company that says he has 75,000 clients to advertise himself. I wonder how many of them are together, really? There's some information that, it seems, lets me analyze. I'm a regular person who needs money. I was told that this company seems to be the most useful company on this table. I went and found the company's page. I decided to take a strong first step, become a solid high-speed loaner, tame in to borrow 900 euros. And where can I rush to repay it? I saw how much it would do in a year. I was encouraged by the promise that there would be no interest, I'm a new client, and that's why I'm not getting any interest. Oh, my God, it's just a gift, right, then we should still take a loan and for a long time. If you borrow EUR 900 for a year without interest, you should have EUR 1428 by the end of the year, i.e. EUR 528 will be added to this amount, which is 53.54%. That's not the worst percentage. Let me remind you that interest was equal to 0. What am I telling you now? There are the same stories as there was in the past with smoke or alcohol advertising: the advertising that called for smoke or alcohol was huge, but the social advertising that wanted to limit it gave us the opportunity to look for it. On the first three pages of Google, only the names of the fast-lending companies were available, and only at the end of the third page did I find an article by Rein Sik, which I finally found at www.minuraha.ee. This is the home page of the Financial Supervision Authority, which explains to you that in some companies interest can be up to 900% per year, how these amounts change, how much more useful it is not to use this service, etc. I would like to thank the Chairman of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority for this rather weighty presentation and for its solid responses. Personally, I received the answer to my question, on the basis of which I can now formulate this story... I'm asking for an extension!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U106	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U107	...the interior idea. After all, the answer was that the Financial Supervision Authority could, in principle, deal with instant loans and SMS loans, but there are no resources for this. I don't understand that sentence. This isn't about the Financial Supervision Authority. I don't understand the country. If there are hundreds of thousands of people who pay over and give huge profits to companies that are like vultures above us, then these resources should certainly be found. All by myself, I had this fuckin' talk. I'm sure you've seen the cover of the Financial Supervision Authority book, where a very beautiful cliff eagle sits on a rock. I see it's an eagle, when I look with my glasses, but when I take off my glasses, everything gets foggy, and I have this feeling that it's a vultures sitting on a dead deer's belly, and the deer is about to burst gas. The supervision of fast-track loans is one of the functions that should be added to the Financial Supervision Authority. Everyone should think about it. Looks like the Consumer Protection Board isn't playing a role here. The negative social role of SMS loans and instant credit in our lives is enormous. We should deal with this. If the Financial Supervision Authority only needs additional resources to do so, then we should guarantee them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U108	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There are no more requests, we will close the debate on the item. Thank you very much to all the participants.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U109	Let's go to the third item on today's agenda. The second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of Government of Paldiski initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union begins. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr Pomerants.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U110	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Before you is the draft law amending the Paldiski Municipality Organisation Act 382, which the Legal Affairs Committee has prepared for a second reading. This preparation took place in s. a on May 20th. We invited Kalev Lillo, representative of the initiator of the draft, Anu Linnamäe, Legal Adviser to the Regional Development Department of the Ministry of the Interior, and Tarmo Porgand, Deputy Head of the State Property Department of the Ministry of Finance. No amendments were received by the deadline for submitting amendments. However, I have already said at first reading that the Ministry of the Interior, in its letter of co-ordination or in the Government's opinion on this draft, raised some comments that we promised to take into account after the debate on the amendments had taken place. The amendments that we have initiated are as follows: First, delete the last sentence of § 51 (1) supplementing the Paldiski Municipality Organisation Act from § 1 of the Bill. The text to be deleted reads as follows: 'When the City of Keila becomes a municipality of Paldiski, all rights and obligations related to the City of Keila will be transferred to the City of Paldiski. ' The reason for the exclusion is that the sentence in the original version does not create legal clarity but creates further legal clarity. Now it's supposed to be about clearing up. All members of the Committee on Legal Affairs were in favour of the amendment. Since it took time for the draft to be processed here in the Riigikogu, the optimism of the initiators regarding the entry into force of the Act cannot materialise. Therefore, instead of 1 June, which was the initial proposal of the initiators of the draft law on the entry into force of the law, the deadline for the entry into force of the law is now s. a 1st of July. With regard to this time shift, the Commission also decided to amend § 51 (2) of the Act: the request referred to in paragraph 1 must be submitted to the Government of the Republic not by 1 September, as the drafters originally planned, but by 1 October, in order for this additional month to be created here too. Paragraph 2 has also made another amendment. In the original text, the Ministry of Finance was foreseen as the recipient of the application, but in the course of the changes the Government of the Republic has become the latter. I'm sure they can handle that internal division of work. These were the amendments. The Commission proposed that this draft be brought to second reading today (this is the case, it is the case) and that the second reading should be closed and adopted as a law at next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U111	Thank you very much. Please, Kadri Simson, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U112	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. You mentioned that the procedure for the draft was longer and the date of entry into force envisaged in the original text has already passed. Why did this procedure get longer? Was there a meeting with the parties concerned, or was there some kind of analysis? Why did the time between the first and second readings get so long?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U113	Thank you for your question. From the Commission's point of view, we believe that everything happened normally and constructively. Initially, the initiators were optimistic about the whole procedure. There were no further procedures, just the understanding of the initiators of the bill and the real life shifted by one month, but nothing bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U114	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question is somewhat broader. Local government issues have been discussed in this Chamber and in Parliament at all. As we know, there are some issues in the debate in the Committee on Rural Affairs, some in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and now I see that some issues concerning local authorities are being discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Is it a pretty normal process for local government issues to be divided between several committees, or should they still be within the competence of one committee? What kind of committee could it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U116	Thanks! I have also found the views that most of the questions fall within the competence of the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee and that improving the state's life and people's situation at all falls within the competence of the Legal Affairs Committee. Unfortunately, that is not the case. But indeed there is a 'normal practice' in the Riigikogu that the name of the committee in general also tells us which issues this committee is dealing with. On the other hand, there is also the heading 'Varia'. The Committee on Legal Affairs has been a committee with its main activities, as well as this 'Varia' heading. The Committee on Legal Affairs has certainly been (at least under my leadership) such a committee, where what was sent to us by the Board of the Riigikogu can be dealt with. Which committee the Board of the Riigikogu decides on is already the result of their discretion. It's their jurisdiction, and they can afford it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U117	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U118	Good manager and waitress! Is this law an exception, or can we expect some other municipalities to come before us with the same concerns soon?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U119	Thanks! I dare assume that neither the city of Jõgeva nor the issue of organising the municipality will come here in this form, because there is nothing to settle. Indeed, this is a unique situation that has occurred once in the practice of local governments in Estonia's post-occupied history. This concerns only the independence of the cities of Keila and Paldiski and the cities of Paldiski.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U120	Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! If draft 382 is passed as a law at third reading, as you said here and supported by the Commission, will the disputes between Keila and the City of Paldiski, including quite long trials, repayment of loans and mutual charges on the use of money, have ended?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U122	We know that this should indeed be the case. Of course, the logic of the draft must be taken into account and take account of any court decisions that have already entered into force. The members of the Committee on Legal Affairs understand that all old relationships should then be settled. What the future holds in the relations between these municipalities is already falling out of the framework of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U123	Thank you very much. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Waitress! I'll continue with my last question. You are undoubtedly entitled to the right of the Riigikogu's management to appoint commissioning committees for drafts. But shouldn't it be that the issues of local authorities are not covered by the so-called Varia of other committees? As we know, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also has its own fundamental questions, but often some local government issues have been added to this "Varia' heading. Shouldn't it be that there is a committee in which all the competence on local government is concentrated, and this committee discussing local government issues not under 'Varia' but as a basic work?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U125	Thanks! I do not think that is absolute, because the expression 'local self-government' may be a keyword that comes out of Google, but it may be some sort of health management or some other subject that falls within the competence of the Committee on Social Affairs. It can't necessarily be some kind of rule, but if there are exceptions, yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U126	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Marko Pomerants. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Three amendments have been tabled to the draft, all of which have been proposed by the commission. Let's go through them. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the proposal is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 2 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is that full account should be taken of. Amendment 3 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is that full account should be taken of. The amendments have been examined. The commission's proposal was that the second reading of Bill 382 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U127	We're going to the next item. The first reading of the draft Act on Supplementing Medicinal Products, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee, begins. I would like a presentation by Maret Maripuu, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U128	Honourable President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The need to ensure the consistent availability of medicinal products to Estonian patients and to avoid situations where medicinal products are not available from Estonian wholesale and pharmacies for an unpredictable period of time due to the uncoordinated export of medicinal products. This is not a new issue. The Ministry of Social Affairs raised the above-mentioned problem when the Riigikogu was taking over Estonia's legal space for the transposition of Directive 2011/62/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Social Affairs Committee expressed its support for the initiative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but no amendment was made on the draft which was then under discussion, as according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, it was necessary to inform the European Commission and the other Contracting States of the proposed amendment due to § 43 of the Product Compliance Act and Directive 98/34/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. The procedure shall provide for a three-month consultation period. In the light of the foregoing, the Committee on Social Affairs has decided to initiate a draft, which I will now introduce. The draft complements subsections 20 (6) and 20 (7) of the Pharmaceutical Act. Pursuant to paragraph 20 (6), the marketing authorisation holder's consent is required for the export of medicinal products subject to a price agreement concluded under the Health Insurance Act. The consent may be refused only if the export of the medicinal product could cause the supply of the medicinal product to be disrupted in Estonia. In accordance with § 42 (4) of the Health Insurance Act, the Minister of Social Affairs and the Marketing Authorisation Holder of the medicinal product conclude a price agreement for each medicinal product listed by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, which has a retail price lower than or equal to the marginal price or which is the only medicinal product marketed with the same active substance and route of administration. Price fixing prices for medicinal products for which the retail price is lower than or equal to the marginal price shall also be calculated for the reimbursement of other medicinal products included in the list of medicinal products of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. According to the price agreement, the marketing authorisation holder is obliged to ensure that the price level stipulated in the agreement and negotiated in accordance with the Estonian health insurance budget, as well as that the medicinal product is consistently and sufficiently available at the wholesale level in Estonia. In the event of a breach of the terms of the price agreement, the marketing authorisation holder shall be fined; in the event of a repeated breach of the terms, termination or modification of the price agreement shall be considered, i.e. the agreement of the new terms in such a way as to enable the marketing authorisation holder to confirm its ability to comply with the terms of the price agreement. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that the marketing authorisation holder, who is responsible for the consistent and adequate availability of the medicinal product, is able to intervene proactively in the export of supplies of medicinal products to Estonia in order to avoid situations where there is no price-fixing medicinal product in wholesale and pharmacies for an unpredictable period of time. The lack of medicines with these price agreements from pharmacies, which are the only medicines with the same active substance and route of administration, leads to interruptions in patients' treatment leading to a deterioration in the quality of treatment and additional medical visits. The lack of medicinal products from pharmacies which are below or equal to the retail selling price leads to an increase in the participation of patients, reducing the financial availability of medicinal products, which may also lead to therapeutic interruptions. The currently available sources for marketing authorisation holders are Statistics of the Agency (medicines sold during the quarter from wholesale trade) and Statistics of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund (medicines issued during the quarter from pharmacies) which are compared to the quantities of medicines delivered to Estonia. However, these quarterly data are available with a time lag and the marketing authorisation holder will not be aware of export until any amount of export has already taken place. As a result of the requirements of Directive 2001/83/EC, there is no normal free movement of goods in the pharmaceutical sector. Only medicinal products authorised in each Member State may be marketed. The marketing of non-authorised medicinal products is only allowed for the treatment of specific patients and provided that similar authorised medicinal products are not available on the market. Packages of a marketed batch must also comply with the terms of the marketing authorisation, including labelling requirements and language requirements of the package leaflet. In accordance with Article 6 (1a) of the abovementioned Directive, the marketing authorisation holder is responsible for placing the medicinal product on the market. Consequently, the manufacturing and supply of medicinal products is planned and organised by the marketing authorisation holders in the Member State of destination. It may take up to one or two years for a medicinal product to be manufactured and supplied in accordance with the terms of the marketing authorisation. Therefore, in a situation where the medicinal product is transported out of Estonia at unpredictable times and in unpredictable amounts, supply disruptions and the medicinal product is not available to the Estonian patient. In particular, supply disruptions are easy to develop in small Member States in their own language, where the quantities of medicinal products marketed which are eligible for marketing authorisation are not large and the buffer is small. However, according to § 64 (3) of the Pharmaceutical Act, the Marketing Authorisation Holder is obliged to inform the Agency at least two months in advance of any interruption of the supply of the medicinal product and of any disruption of supply. An overview of the medicinal products for which a price agreement has been concluded and of the marketing authorisation holders who have concluded the agreement and their representatives is available on the website of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Therefore, the data can be easily found to contact the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) or its representative. The prohibition imposed by the Marketing Authorisation Holder on the export of a medicinal product shall be duly justified. Pursuant to paragraph 20 (7), the Agency has the right to suspend the export of a medicinal product where this is necessary for the protection of public health. The problem of availability of the medicinal product may occur unexpectedly, for example in the event of an infectious outbreak, if the need for a medicinal product unexpectedly increases, or if an obstacle occurs in the manufacturing process of the medicinal product or if a quality problem occurs. In this case, appropriate substitution medicinal products will be found in cooperation with doctors and an adequate supply of substitution medicinal products will be sought as effectively as possible in the country. The prohibition imposed by the Agency on the export of medicinal products shall be duly justified and shall apply on an equal basis to all operators. However, the law restricts the freedom of holders of a wholesale pharmaceutical licence to market the medicinal product in a lesser way. The consent for export is requested only by means of a price-fixing agreement on medicinal products, accounting for approximately 14% of the number of authorised medicinal products. The amendment ensures that the Estonian Health Insurance Fund's pharmaceutical expenditure is better predicted due to the conclusion of sustainable price agreements with marketing authorisation holders. A good forecast of pharmaceutical expenditure and appropriate prices will in turn contribute to the inclusion of new medicines in the list of preferential medicines and to the sustainable financing of healthcare services. I would add that the Government of the Republic supports the draft. At its meeting on 20 May, the Committee on Social Affairs took the following procedural decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 4 June, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 18 June. All decisions were taken by consensus. I would also like to ask you to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U129	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U130	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, To this day, I had the impression that Estonia is importing medicines rather than exporting them. Since I have nothing to do with this sphere, it is difficult for me to imagine the situation we are trying to avoid by amending § 20. To make it more understandable, can you describe the reasons why some medicine should be taken out of Estonia, who should even be interested in how it could happen and where these medicines are usually taken? Give a practical example of what we are trying to avoid.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U131	Thank you. As I said, this change concerns only 14% of medicines sold in Estonia, i.e. medicines for which a price agreement has been concluded. These medicines can be cheaper in Estonia than in other Member States. Therefore, a wholesaler may take a certain quantity of this medicinal product from his warehouse at a more favourable price and take it to any other Member State. This may lead to a situation where an Estonian patient is unable to receive this medicine. The amendment provides that if a wholesaler wants to take out a medicinal product for which a price agreement has been concluded because it is cheaper here than elsewhere, he must inform the Marketing Authorisation Holder. It is only possible to prohibit export if this is justified, if the Marketing Authorisation Holder says that it really only has a certain amount of this medicine and it is statistically known that this medicine may take so much in Estonia during this period.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U132	Thank you very much. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U133	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, My question somewhat complements the previous question, as the answer also said that this situation might arise. But I had a question right from the beginning. A rather serious section is included in the law. But have we already had a situation like this? Usually, there is a need for a change of law when a situation has really arisen that would be badly needed to avoid in the future. Has there already been a case in Estonia where medicines have been taken out of Estonia and problems have arisen in the pharmacy, hospital and wholesale warehouse?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U134	Thank you for your question. There have been situations like this. The Agency has therefore issued fines. This change is due to a practical need.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U135	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U136	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Why do you need separate consent at all, if in any case the Agency monitors the import and export of medicines?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U137	Thank you for your question. As I said earlier, the Agency can impose a restriction when, for example, there is an outbreak of a major infectious disease and there may be a risk that some medicine might run out. The proposed change will help the marketing authorisation holder, who has an obligation to keep the medicinal product on the Estonian market with a price fixing, to know that the medicinal product has disappeared from the wholesale warehouse or pharmacies. As I said in the draft introduction, the data from the Health Insurance Fund and the data to be provided to the Agency are quarterly. However, if a medicinal product is to be taken out of Estonia now, the Marketing Authorisation Holder must submit an application for the withdrawal of one or more medicinal products. The marketing authorisation holder may refuse authorisation only if this prohibition is justified. It can't be that someone just says he won't let you take the medicine out. There must be a specific justification for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U138	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U139	Thank you. Honourable performer! That sounds very theoretical. If we really had cases where there would not have been enough medicine for some of the major outbreaks of infection, then it would have been reported to the public, and the press would have written about it. But I don't remember these cases. Is it not just a European directive again, the points of which must be met? There have been no situations on the scene that would indicate that this problem is up. Rather, we have this problem that many medicines are not produced in Estonia at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U140	Thank you. This is not a requirement for a European directive, as I said. We are currently consulting whether the European Commission will allow this amendment to enter into force. According to § 43 of the Product Compliance Act and Directive 98/34/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, the European Commission must be informed of our wish. We look forward to seeing what the European Commission thinks of this when we finish our first reading. Yes, the Agency has not had such a need so far, as I know, but there have been a number of cases where patients have lost their medicine because it has not been available on the pharmacy network because it has been taken out of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U141	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U142	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The marketing authorisation holder shall consent to the wholesaler. It can only be refused if the supply of the medicinal product may be interrupted. What are the criteria for disrupting this supply? What does that mean? Is it that the drug isn't in the warehouse, the pharmacy, or people's hands? Is it that the medicine isn't for a week or a month? What are these break criteria?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U143	Thank you. The discontinuation criterion is that the MAH considers that it is no longer able to supply our patients, that the required amount is not available in a wholesale warehouse or pharmacy. This decision will depend on the specific medicinal product and on the estimated number of consumers. But like I said, this is the first reading of the bill. I think there are some clarifications to be made here. I myself have wondered that perhaps there should also be a deadline for the marketing authorisation holder to provide such a response. But the principle should be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U144	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U145	Thank you. Were there differences between marketing authorisation holders and wholesalers? How was this agreement achieved? What arguments could the European Union make, for example, if they do not want to accept it? What could be their excuse?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U146	Thank you. Recall the time when we discussed the transposition of Directive 2011/62/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council into Estonia's legal space. The press then said that wholesalers are not happy with this proposal, they do not like it. But this was just a proposal from the Marketing Authorisation Holders, the Agency and the Ministry of Social Affairs, because at the moment, if the Marketing Authorisation Holder is unable to ensure that the medicinal product is available in Estonia, it will be fined. However, the MAH will only know that this medicinal product or another medicinal product has run out of wholesale and pharmacy networks with a delay of three months. I think this change should also help the wholesaler because there have been cases where the marketing authorisation holder has entered into a price agreement, but this medicinal product has not been brought into the Estonian wholesale and pharmacy network. From now on, they will not be able to blame each other for the fact that no one has taken the medicine out, or that the medicine has not come into our wholesale and pharmacy network at all. The European Commission has sent questions about the draft to us, or to the Ministry of Social Affairs. They are currently being answered and arguments are being put forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U147	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Two years ago, in 2011, the Baltic Assembly sat right here in this room and discussed the pharmaceutical market in the Baltics. It has just been said that our market is too small and it is worth looking a little wider in this area. Later, it has been mentioned repeatedly that this is one of the real areas of Baltic cooperation. How does this draft relate to the idea that the Baltics could have a single pharmaceutical market and that we could consider regulations and laws together, because maybe it will help?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U149	Thank you. I know that there is cooperation in the Baltics, for example, on the procurement of a variety of vaccines where this joint section is found. I think the harmonisation of pharmaceutical laws is a very beautiful dream, but I would not be very optimistic about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U150	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U151	Thank you. I must admit, I am not an expert in this area. But I've got the sentence here that the Marketing Authorisation Holder will find out that there may be a problem on the market with about three months' delay. If he finds out with such a delay, how can he assess whether or not there is a problem with the availability of these medicines? Question number two: can anyone control it? Does the Agency have the right to check the words of the Marketing Authorisation Holder in one form or another? If the marketing authorisation holder's claim is sufficient, this may cause problems on the local market, as they are probably not very optimistic about the withdrawal of medicines.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U152	Thank you. In the beginning, it was said that under the current law the export would be known with a delay. This amendment, which we now want to legitimise, provides that before a medicinal product is taken out of Estonia, it must be notified to the marketing authorisation holder, who will be able to prohibit it by reasoned justification. It is possible to challenge that decision before a court if the person who has expelled considers that the statement of reasons does not hold any water. Currently, the Agency does not have real-time controls.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U153	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U154	Thank you. Dear waitress, However, as is evident from the questions that are being asked in this Chamber, the things you are talking about seem rather unrealistic. As far as I know, there are so many drugs being produced in the world that there is no shortage of them. I still do not understand when the moment will come when one or the other medicine will have to be taken out of Estonia and cannot be recovered from anywhere else. Of course, I don't know the subject, but is there a well-known medicine that might be called here? I remember we had a huge supply of vaccines for swine flu. Did they stay in Estonia, or did they somehow manage to sneak them out?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U155	Mr. Lenk, I am truly surprised! You have so many voters and you know their concerns. Hasn't anyone complained to you about missing one or the other drug from the pharmacy? I am, of course, very pleased that your voters have done well. In fact, there have been cases where the medicine has been taken out of Estonia. As I said, this change concerns only 14% of medicines on the Estonian pharmaceutical market. These are medicines for which a price agreement has been concluded. The Ministry of Social Affairs has negotiated with the producers and received a very favourable price for the people of Estonia. This affordable drug would be useful for marketing elsewhere, where it is more expensive. That's the problem. We want to protect Estonian patients so that they can always buy medicine in Estonia. As I said, this does not concern all medicines sold in Estonia, but only 14%, for which a price agreement has been concluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U156	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U157	Thank you. I learned from your reply that if the wholesaler wishes to move the medicine out of Estonia, he will contact the marketing authorisation holder. If the MAH considers that there is no sufficient supply of medicinal products to ensure the availability of the medicinal product on the Estonian market, it will respond in the negative. There is no possibility for the Agency to check this. The only way for a wholesaler to challenge this negative response by the marketing authorisation holder is to refer the matter to the court. Are there any other options, whether there will be another instance, or whether it will really only be the court's jurisdiction to resolve this problem in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U158	If you have good ideas, amendments can be tabled until 18 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U159	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U160	Good manager! Good waitress! Do wholesalers who sell medicines only trade on the Estonian market or do they also operate outside Estonia? Does this change not lead to a restriction on entrepreneurship? At present, there is no deadline for the marketing authorisation holder to review this application as soon as possible. Thus, there may be a situation in which the trader keeps in stock an enormous amount of medicinal products, his application is processed for two months, and in the third month it is said that the medicinal products may be taken out. But then it's too late, because the entrepreneur has taken a bank loan and that money is just standing there. In fact, it should be very clear how quickly this application will be processed. It should also be established how much of these 14% of the medicines are in stock. 14% is not so little, this is particularly clear when you read these names.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U161	Thank you. Directive 2001/83/EC on the Community code relating to medicinal products for human use sets out the requirements under which the normal free movement of goods in the pharmaceutical sector is not carried out and such restrictions may be imposed. However, as I said, negotiations are currently taking place with the European Commission on whether this amendment is justified, whether such provisions should be formulated differently and whether deadlines should be set here. This has been discussed with people from the Department of Social Affairs' Department of Medicine and the EMA. It would certainly be better and clearer to set an exact deadline for the MAH to provide its response.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U162	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U163	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I note that you said that, between first and second readings, you are waiting, rather, for the Commission and the Ministry to wait for the European Commission's position on this matter. But what if the Commission's position on this draft is negative or negative? How, then, does the Social Affairs Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, intend to resolve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U164	Thank you. Firstly, I am positive and hope that the answer is not negative, because similar regulation has been used in other Member States. Right now, in the round of questions and answers, we can still improve this bill. I hope, however, that we will find the best possible solution so that medicines are available to the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U165	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U166	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You've had to give the hall long answers about the interests of businessmen and everything else. I hope you can confirm that, in fact, this law protects an Estonian patient and allows him to obtain medicines more favourably. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we did not really have a debate. I wanted to ask what Mrs Tobal has already asked, namely what will happen if there is a negative response from the European Union. Maybe you're saying once again that the bill we're working on today isn't some predicament weapon to limit entrepreneurship, it's meant to protect the patient.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U167	Thank you. Once again, this bill was drafted precisely to protect Estonian patients, to ensure that Estonian patients can buy the most favorable medicine on the market. That is our goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U168	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U169	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The whole logic of this legislative amendment is that the wholesaler wants to make a criminal, takes some medicine from Estonia's warehouse and then drags it to Latvia, because it is more expensive there. But what are the prices that the wholesaler operates on? They're factory prices to get the wholesaler's medicine. However, factory prices may not vary in Estonia and Latvia. If we look at some quite larger countries, we can see that the bigger the market, the lower the price. So in Estonia, these medicines have been bought at a higher price anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U170	Thank you. As I said, this concerns only medicines for which a price agreement has been concluded, with the state being one of the parties in the negotiations on price. But I believe that at the next meeting of the Social Affairs Committee, where we are discussing this issue, we can also look at examples that medicines with price fixing are cheaper in Estonia than elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U171	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U172	Thank you. Rapporteur for the Committee on Social Affairs. I understand that the need for this law is convinced by the Ministry of Social Affairs, who also made a similar amendment to the draft law amending the medicine law, which was in the Riigikogu discussion in March. You said that this amendment could not be accepted because it needed authorisation from the European Commission, which could take three months. When you later answered the questions, you said that even now it has not begun to apply for this permit, that it is expected that the first reading will end. Am I right to understand that it is only after the end of today's debate that the European Commission is called upon to obtain authorisation? Why, then, is the deadline for tabling amendments earlier than the European Commission's response is likely to come?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U173	Thank you. I guess I didn't express myself exactly. When the Social Affairs Committee initiated the draft, the Ministry of Social Affairs sent this draft to the European Commission. There is currently a correspondence with the European Commission and the first answers have already been sent. Why did we not put forward this amendment on the previous draft when it was in the debate in the Commission? We needed to transpose the directive and we already welcomed the deadline being exceeded, which is why the Commission decided to initiate a separate draft so that there would not be the time pressure involved in the transposition of the directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U174	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U175	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, first of all, thank you for your very thorough answers. Directive 2001/83/EC, which you have referred to as the need to transpose, identifies the same supply disruptions that you have presented today. It has been stressed that all the terms of the marketing authorisation are up to the Member States, including language requirements for the leaflet, etc. In the Commission, together with these amendments and the transposition of the directive, did you discuss for a very long time the subject at issue in Estonia that information on certain basic medicines should be available in several languages?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U176	Thank you. This Directive 2001/83/EC has long been transposed. The current composition of the Riigikogu has not been able to sharpen its thoughts on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U177	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U178	Thank you. There were a lot of questions about whether this law was needed at all. I tried to remember when there was a shortage of medicines in Estonia. Maybe the only public panic was when we couldn't get the flu vaccine. Are vaccines covered by this law? You mentioned that it only covers 14% of prescription medicines. Does this law also determine the movement of vaccines, or do vaccines belong to a completely separate law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U179	Thank you. This law applies to medicinal products for which a price agreement has been concluded. Vaccines are purchased differently in Estonia, without price fixing. The amendment concerns the chronically ill and other patients who have been prescribed a medicinal product for which a price agreement has been concluded and which is the most favourable. Although there have been no major cases that would have been written in the press, for example, that one or the other vaccine has run out, I do think that for every person whose life depends on one particular medicine, it is a tragedy if he is unable to buy this medicine in Estonia. This amendment should ensure that there are no future cases of this kind.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U180	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U181	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I am still asking for the opinion of the European Commission. It may also happen that this opinion will come later when the deadline for proposing amendments to the draft is set. Could this mean that if, by then, no position has been received from the European Commission on this draft, the Committee on Social Affairs will be forced to suspend the procedure for this draft, do not wait for the Commission's position and then proceed with the draft procedure? Is this a possible option that the Commission has considered?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U182	Thank you. Since the draft has been initiated by full consensus in the Committee on Social Affairs, I believe that if the European Commission's response comes later than the deadline for submitting amendments, the Commission will have the right to table its own amendments in accordance with our Home and Working Rules Act. There are rules of procedure in this hall. If the draft changes very seriously, the reading of the bill will be interrupted so that all members of the Riigikogu can read the amended draft and make their own amendments. Why should this not also happen with this draft, which received full support from the Commission both when it was initiated and when it was sent to this Chamber with a proposal to finish the first reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U183	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U184	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! It is entirely natural that there is consensus when discussing good things in the Commission, because it is our job to provide people with a living environment, especially for those who are perhaps a little more ill and need certain medicines. During the discussion of this draft, which deals with the wider pharmaceutical problem, was it discussed in the Commission that the overall availability of medicines in our pharmacy chains is relatively selective, because there is one drug in some chains and some others have another? I can say that Estonia is conditionally divided into two: pharmacies with Ibumax and pharmacies without Ibumax. Did the Commission raise this issue of market regulation in general? In fact, basic drugs could be available anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U185	Thank you. Unfortunately, this issue was not under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U186	Thank you very much. No more questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U187	Madam President! The subject is extremely wide, so I'm asking for eight minutes now!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U188	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U189	Of course, eight minutes isn't enough to chew through this subject. Look, ladies and gentlemen, there are only a few lines here. Looking at it, it looks like everything's simple and logical. There must be a marketing authorisation in order to sell, deliver and export medicinal products. It's okay, let's squish the button and go to lunch, whatever it is. But questions arose and quite a lot, because everything that's involved with drugs is quite painful. What are the legal businesses in the world where the most money circulates? The first is arms trade and the second is the trade in medicines, both of which are sources of potential danger. Both are important to human life and health. There was talk of hypothetical situations where a wholesaler takes up the market and somehow deprives the market of some kind of drug. This is not about anyone wanting to deprive Estonians of a specific medicine, but obviously the wholesaler here has made some wrong business decisions, because the wholesaler and the marketing authorisation holder work hand in hand. The marketing authorisation holder, who may be a representative of a French factory, shall ensure that the factory's production is available at all times in the region for which he is responsible. He regularly consults a wholesaler on the subject. The wholesaler is also interested to have this preparation sold in Estonia. For example, if a medicine is collected in Estonia for a week or a month and a hole appears in the equipment, this will cause problems for the wholesaler later. So neither the wholesaler nor the marketing authorisation holder is interested in taking any medicinal product out of Estonia. There is no particular price interest to collect and sell the medicine in Estonia, for example, in Latvia, because the price operated by the wholesaler is the ex-works price that the marketing authorisation holder will give him. The price of the factory is basically the price at which the medicine comes out of the factory. Only the producer also looks at the market, for example, the Russian market and looks at the Estonian market. I can't even tell by heart how many dozen or several hundred times there are in these markets. This drug, which goes to a large market, is received at a lower price, which goes to a smaller market, however, at a higher price. Estonian medicines are much more expensive than medicines in larger markets anyway. There's no point in taking these drugs out. If there have been cases like this, it's just been somebody's wrong business decision. Does it need some kind of legal regulation? I deeply doubt that because, in fact, this work has not been carried out by the Agency. The Agency should look at all medicines that are brought to Estonia and taken out of Estonia. He has the right to do so, and he should have the opportunity. Is there no bother, no human resources, or is the Agency doing something else? But basically, it's the task of the Agency, and I don't think there's any need for a legislative amendment here. We have an interesting situation. We have an extremely liberal economy. This is because we are very much hoping for market regulation, competition, we are creating all kinds of competitions where some processes are going to take place, and then we want to come up with legal regulation in every case. This is what we do here in the Riigikogu. Laws, amendments, amendments to amended laws and amendments to the law for the adoption of the new law will be like Vändra sawboards, because we are trying to come up with a law for each individual case, although there are national institutions that should keep an eye on the entire pharmaceutical sector. This raises interesting disputes, such as the restriction on the establishment of pharmacies. Yesterday, the Social Committee had an enlarged 'pleenum', where I estimated more than 30 people were present. There were representatives of pharmaceutical manufacturers, marketing authorisation holders, wholesalers, association of pharmacists and pharmacies, as well as all kinds of fun and interesting people. Turns out each one of them has a point of view. No consensus was found. The activities of pharmacies are on the one hand very precisely regulated, it is known what are the discounts, which can be sold to whom and how, and that only the cheapest option can be offered. On the other hand, everything is completely free. Do what you want. Then, by means of a restriction on the establishment of pharmacies, they try to extort the city so that there are no longer four pharmacies on one street corner, but they go to the country. Well, they won't go to the country because they just won't make it in the country! In order for the pharmacy to support itself in any way, to have a pharmacist full of stomachs and eye shines, it takes at least 2,000 sick, but also purchasing customers. But what's going on in the country? The drugstores will be shut down on Earth, the post offices will be shut down, there will be no more rescue services. But, of course, there are free-willed sprayers. Now it is said that medicines will be sold at a gas station, by mail, or over the Internet. Very good! You log in and consume virtual Viagra (this helps perfectly, by the way). I don't know if the boys with the pharmacy bag or the drugstore buses are gonna walk around. But in any case, we have reached the point of liberalisation that we have unlimited freedom: if you want to live in the land, live as in the Stone Age, but if you don't want to live like this, move to the city. We also have the freedom in this sense that if you want to live in an Estonia like ours, you can live, but if you don't, you can move to a wide world, just like the people do. In all of this, slogans are placed on trash bins to be proud of achievements, and it has been found that the right place for this slogan is on the trash bin. The squirrel is also drawn there, it is a squirrel's cabin, it has such a round hole. I'm just surprised at decisions like that. But as far as this bill is concerned, I think permission is necessary. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's push the button and go to lunch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-04_U190	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. At the proposal of the commission, the first reading of the draft 400 has been completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 400 amendments. June 18th, 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of discussing the items on today's agenda. In the new session, we will proceed with the fifth item on the agenda. Have a nice day, everybody! Closure of the sitting at 1:01 p.m.
