ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the ninth Tuesday session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. I'm asking for Kalev Eagle.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, I am handing over the draft law amending the Land Tax Act. The purpose of the draft is to compensate local authorities for the land tax they have not received due to the land tax exemption from the land under nature conservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U3	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the members of the Alliance of Socialists and Democrats of the Riigikogu, I will report on the question of supporting children with special educational needs. In regular school, the number of children with special educational needs is increasing. On this basis, a number of questions have arisen during the processing of the basic school and upper secondary school law and the related draft law amending other laws. The main reasons why children are included in pupils with special needs are learning difficulties (difficulties in writing, reading and calculating) and behavioural disorders. The reasons for the problems of the students are difficult to identify, but it is clear that the sooner the problem is discovered, the easier it is to help the child and, most importantly, to find the cause of the problem. In comprehensive school, problems accumulate, reach the root cause, and then helping a child is much more difficult. Consequently, we have five questions for the Minister of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U5	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U6	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Reet Roos, Mart Meri and Igor Gräzin initiate a draft law amending one law. We are members of the National Library Council, and no more members of the Riigikogu are there. The content of the legislative amendment is that since the price of electricity was hit in the sky, the National Library budget was in deficit at EUR 55000. Our idea is that since the state raised this price, the country has the money to give it back with its other hand. All the more so because Eesti Energia doesn't know what to do with this money anyway, at least there's nothing sensible to hear from it. So there is money, but there is no legislative basis. Why are we only talking about the National Library? The point is, the National Library has its own law, and this law can make that change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U7	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U8	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, 17 Members of the Central Party Group will report an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. The inquiry concerns a reduction in home costs. So far, it has been said that the best measure to reduce home expenses is the insulation and renovation of homes. Unfortunately, the situation shows something else. If last year the funds for applying for loans to apartment buildings ran out in May, the loan applications will not even be accepted. The same is true of private house renovation grants. Last year, KredEx started receiving applications for reconstruction allowance for small houses on 30 April and ended in August. These applications are currently no longer accepted. How can this promise be fulfilled? According to Statistics Estonia, housing expenditure increased by 10.4% in February compared to the previous year. We have five questions about how the promises and how they are fulfilled. I hope the Minister will give us adequate answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U9	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Monetary Commission is launching a draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds aimed at supplementing the regulation on the liquidation of investment funds in order to avoid legal uncertainty in the liquidation of funds and to ensure adequate investor protection. The draft has been prepared in cooperation with the Economic Commission and the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U11	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three draft laws. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I have also accepted two inquiries on behalf of the Riigikogu's management board. If they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressees without delay. Now the messages. Wednesday, s. On 27 March, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 86 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 15 are missing. Let's clarify the agenda. At the discussion of item 3, the draft law amending § 22 of the Social Democratic Party Act on study grants and student loans at the first reading will be presented by the initiator, Helmen Kütt.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U12	We will address the items on today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Alar Karis Auditor General' presented by the President of the Republic of Estonia, Toomas Hendrik Ilves. I will present the procedure for dealing with the draft decision appointing the official. First of all, there is a presentation by the representative of the commission, which lasts up to 20 minutes. The official candidate's report shall last up to five minutes. Following questions for rapporteurs, a member of the Riigikogu may ask both rapporteurs an oral question. Subsequent negotiations involving only the representatives of the political groups. The final vote will then be held, which is secret in accordance with § 79 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, since the list of persons whose appointment is subject to a secret vote is also included by the Auditor General. We will discuss the item. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U13	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Pursuant to § 65 (7) and § 134 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the Auditor General is appointed by the Riigikogu on a proposal from the President of the Republic for a period of five years. The Riigikogu appointed the current Auditor General Mihkel Oviir as the Auditor General for the second time on 26 February 2008. He took an oath to the Riigikogu on 7 April 2008, so his mandate ends on 6 April 2013 and Estonia needs a new Auditor General. The President of the Republic made the Riigikogu on 27 February. a proposal to appoint Professor Alar Karis as Auditor General. Between 2003 and 2007, Mr Karis was the Rector of the Estonian University of Life Sciences and the University of Tartu in 2007-2012. At the moment, Mr Karis is headed by the Council of Rectors. In all these agencies, he has shown himself to be an authoritative, thorough, knowledgeable head of government and economy. As a naturalist, Mr Karis has a critical, analytical and objective way of thinking that will certainly benefit him in the job he is facing, as is his rich experience of international communication and working abroad. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs met with Mr Karis on 12 March 2013 and discussed his candidacy. We asked him many questions and received satisfying answers. As a result of this meeting, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs unanimously decided to support this proposal by the President of the Republic. I also call on you to support the President of the Republic's proposal, all the more so since it is today's birthday for Mr Karise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U14	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I ask the speaker for the presentation of the Auditor General's candidacy Alar Karis!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I thank you for the opportunity to make a brief speech in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. But above all, I would like to thank you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, for your meetings in political groups and committees, which gave you the opportunity to consider my suitability for the position of Auditor General and to discuss the place and future of the National Audit Office in our country without prejudice. Allow me to address some aspects and developments that I consider to be important at the moment. As we know, we are living at a time when both domestic and international cooperation are indispensable. The National Audit Office is no exception here. In turn, cooperation will start with dialogue with partners. By partners, I mean primarily all the institutions of the state, certainly the Riigikogu, but also the government. I am deeply convinced that the National Audit Office does not work for the media or merely for the opposition. I think Members of Parliament representing the departments of the government could show greater interest in the debate on the audits of the National Audit Office, because this is the policy of your government, which may be criticised. I consider it important to further develop cooperation with the Special Committee on State Budget Control established in the Riigikogu in 2004. The recent initiative of the committee to develop a so-called report to the Riigikogu deserves much discussion. This is one of the possible ways in which the results of the National Audit Office's audits can be made even better public, both in the Riigikogu and in the general public. The right of the Auditor General to participate in meetings of the Government of the Republic is not common in the world. In Estonia, this right is guaranteed by the Constitution and must be exercised in the best possible way if there are grounds for doing so. I am not talking about direct participation in politics here, but, above all, that it is possible to intervene and express its views and to argue against them in order to prevent possible conflicts. It is easy to blame the current government, the previous government or the subsequent governments for the fact that one or the other area is unsustainable, but it is unfair not to propose or propose solutions. I agree with the view that the National Audit Office should look at the past as far as is necessary for future-oriented decisions. It is therefore necessary to ensure that audits are competent, that proposals are not presented with eye flaps, but that it is considered whether they can be met at all. Non-life positions not only undermine cooperation with the audited, but they reduce the credibility of the National Audit Office as a whole. It is clear that, because of the limited possibilities, choices must be made and action must be focused primarily on areas with a higher level of risk, on priority issues in the country's life, which in turn does not mean that there is room for control in the use of public funds. Areas that have been overlooked or found uncomfortable (for example, the functioning of internal security has not been audited for ten years) should be brought back to focus. This, however, requires the development of competence in this direction. I know that the National Audit Office has recently proposed an increase in resources to the Special Committee on State Budget Control. The question has rightly been asked.• This issue also came up at meetings in the political groups, but what happens to the proposals of the National Audit Office, how many of them apply and why some of the views of the National Audit Office are left unexposed. I think it is important that the answers to these questions can reach both this hall and the public in the future. I'm gonna come back to work together for a second. I believe that the National Audit Office should also have international authority. In the same way as participating in international networks, I consider it important to have direct contacts with control organisations from different countries, especially with neighbouring organisations. For example, joint audits would make it possible to extend the expertise of the National Audit Office considerably. Finally. Which state does the National Audit Office need anyway? I believe that a functioning institution that affects the development of a country and is widely accepted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U16	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur, it's clear. Thank you very much, Alar Karis. Is there a desire to negotiate? There is no wish for political groups to negotiate; negotiations will not be opened. We are going to prepare the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Alar Karis Auditor General' presented by the President of the Republic of Estonia, Toomas Hendrik Ilves, 389. Please take a stand and vote. There were 76 members of the Riigikogu, 4 against and 3 abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision. [[Let's hear it.]] Congratulations, Auditor General Alar Karis! We would like to ask you here once more in front of us and congratulations on your appointment and on your birthday!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U17	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to work on the points on today's agenda. The second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Place Name Act and the Land Book Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like a presentation by Heimar Leng, member of the Rural Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U18	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law 362 at its meeting on Monday 18 March, i.e. a week ago. In addition to the members of the committee, Ms Mall Kivisalu, Legal Adviser to the Regional Development Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and Head of the Address Details Department of the Land Office, took part in the work. It must be said immediately that neither members of the Riigikogu, political groups nor other committees tabled amendments to the draft 362. While we were discussing amendments that had been drafted in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, the Land Administration and the Committee on Rural Affairs. Commission advisor Merle Kruusimägi and guests explained these amendments and answered the questions raised by the members of the Commission. However, there were not many questions either, as the amendments were purely of a precise, linguistic and technical nature and concerned formal issues. There were no substantive amendments to this draft law. The law should enter into force on 1 July 2013. The Commission decided on the draft procedure: to send a draft 362 to the plenary for a second reading today, 26 March 2013 (this was a consensual decision) and to propose that the second reading be terminated (this was also a consensual decision). That was the work of our committee on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U19	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U20	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I am interested in this draft law as to whether it regulates the place names in dialect. Is there still the right to keep certain place names that exist in Setumaa, for example, but which does not sound normal in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U21	They are left as the local government and the people want them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U22	Inara Luigas, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U23	Thank you. If, for example, the area covered by a single place name is divided so that some of it remains in Setumaa area and the other part is in Estonian territory, what happens to that place name?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U24	I did not understand well what it means that one part of the territory of Estonia and the other part of the area of Setumaa. I think this is all Estonia's territory, and everything goes according to the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U25	Thank you. Please, Urmas Glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U26	I can help. We are talking about Võõpsus, some of which are Mikitamäe and part of Räpina municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U27	Both are in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U28	Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you, Heimar Lenk! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Let us examine the amendments. There are seven of them, and all have been presented by the lead committee. Amendment 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. The amendments have been examined. The Governing Commission's proposal was that the second reading of Bill 362 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U29	Today's third item is the first reading of the draft amendment to § 22 of the Study Grants and Student Loan Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I would like to present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Hunt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U30	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending § 22 of the Study Grants and Student Loan Act 334 is before you. This draft has been initiated by the Social Democratic Party faction of the Riigikogu. The bill is very simple of itself. As you can see, this one-page bill would change the situation where people who care for their children with severe or deep disabilities and receive a very low fee (EUR 25 or a little more in some municipalities) will be forced to pay back the student loan they have taken. People have taken this student loan in good faith, wanting to be educated, to work and to benefit the state, but the birth of a disabled child to the family has deprived them of the opportunity to work and receive income, and this has put them in a very difficult position. According to the draft, these people would also be exempted from the payment of student loans, as is already the case under this law, for those who have a permanent incapacity for work of 80 to 100%. I would like very much to thank the Committee on Culture, which is the commission responsible for handling the draft, and the chairman of the committee, Urmas Klaas, as well as the members of the committee, who also referred this draft to the Committee on Social Affairs for discussion and listened to the views of this committee. The debate showed that there was, in fact, no division between the coalition and the opposition; the principle of the draft was supported. I very much hope that the Riigikogu will not simply put this bill on the shelf after the first reading has ended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U31	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Helmen Hunter! Kaia Iva, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair, for a co-report!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U32	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture discussed this draft essentially twice, for the first time. February 11th, when Helmen Kütt, the initiator's representative, Anneli Susi, adviser to the Ministry of Education and Research, and Kaur Kittus, lawyer at the Legal Department were also invited. The content of the draft was examined, the questions were answered and the position of the Government of the Republic was reviewed, but no procedural decisions were yet taken at this meeting and it was decided to continue the discussion. It was also decided that the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs would be sought. The Social Affairs Committee received a reply on 21 February describing the activities and plans of the Ministry of Social Affairs in this area. At the same time, the reply stated that the Committee on Social Affairs considered that this draft should continue to be dealt with, but added that it was necessary to specify the conditions under which the credit institution would waive the requirement for the borrower to fulfil its obligations. On 25 February a meeting of the Committee on Culture was held, again called Helmen Kütt as the initiator's representative, and Uku Torjus, Head of the Welfare Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Pille Vaiksaar, Chief Specialist, were also present. Following the debate, the Commission agreed that the procedure for this draft should be continued. Procedural decisions were also taken: to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 26 March, to propose that the first reading be closed and to set ten working days by which amendments should be tabled. All decisions were taken by consensus. The Committee on Culture has already requested the opinion of the Ministry of Social Affairs on improvements and improvements to specify the conditions under which recovery of the loan may be waived. The Committee on Culture hopes that this draft will move forward at a rapid pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U33	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U34	Thank you. By thanking your committee for its pleasant cooperation, I ask when a second reading could take place. Do you think it's April already?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U35	I don't know exactly what to say. I think there's hope for that. Let's wait for the Ministry to respond. We hope to get concrete suggestions for improvements from there, and then, by looking at the amendments received and the Ministry's response, we can continue to shape the draft in order to come to second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U36	No further questions. Thank you, Kaia Iva! I'm opening negotiations. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U37	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to use these five minutes to remind you of the Touch Points issue of the eighth issue of 2012. All of us 101 members of the Riigikogu receive this magazine. This issue describes the situation of a young mother. I have the consent of this mother, Kaire Parts, that I can read a few paragraphs to you in this article. Think about it. This bill, which the Social Democratic Party initiated and which, according to the idea, could enter into force on 1 January 2014, is no longer much help for this mother because she has paid back her student loan, but it would help many others. I quote: 'Kaire Parts is an ambitious young woman who has always thought that learning, working and family with children are things that fit together. Now, however, his family is trapped in the repayment of a student loan. It all started with the birth of a disabled child. 'You should have thought that you could have a child with severe or deep disability when taking a student loan,' said Minister of Social Affairs, Kaire, when he attended a meeting in the Ministry, which he himself had asked to explain as a young lawyer to the heads of state the mismatches in terms of repayment of the student loan. [- - -] 'So I graduated from three schools and sit at home and care for my sick child. I live in increasing poverty, although I could be useful to society. I live in the wrong place with my troubled family, in the land. The country doesn't need us. He doesn't need the skills and the stakes of our kind, he just needs to get back that loan. '' Kaire feels that this is not just a family problem, unfortunately: "I know a number of other families with similar concerns in my community. Fathers go to Finland in the last trouble, mothers stay alone with their children, and the situation at home gets worse. That is why we wrote 12 questions a year and a half ago, as well as a proposal for Hanno Pevkur's audience. ' The proposals that the Social Democratic Party has written in this bill are part of them. We very much hope, as I said before, that the bill will not stand on dusty shelves, but that we can adopt this bill as a law in May 2013 and that the situation of people whose family is a child with severe or deep disabilities who they care for and therefore cannot work will become easier from 2014 because they will not have to pay back the student loan. Thank you and I hope for a very pleasant cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-26_U38	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission's proposal was that the first reading of draft 334 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 334 amendments. a 10 April at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted. I wish everyone a beautiful day! See you later! Closure of the sitting at 10.36 a.m.
