ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government! Let's start the 24th April briefing. In today's Question Hour, Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu will participate in the duties of Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. First, we'll do a presence check. Currently 30 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 71 are missing. Please, Tarmo Lein Tamm, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U2	You have a beautiful blue sky above your head. Is it gonna stay that way till tonight? The top screen doesn't work.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U3	We are dealing with this technical issue. I hope you can view the information from the two screens next to you and from your remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U4	We're going to the first question. The first questioner is Inara Luigas, a member of the Riigikogu, and it is the task of the Prime Minister of the Minister of Defence, Urmas Reinsalu, and the subject is the construction of a radar station for the national nature reserve. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U5	Thank you. Dear Minister, My question, of course, is not the most burning today, but I am aware of it and I want to ask you about it. I read the article "Can't Be Silent - Again From the Radar Station" in the South Lehe of 11 April, where one of the community's residents has given the thoughts of the village community of Pilkus nicely. The Ministry of Defence intends to establish a radar station in Otepää Tõikamäe. This building is designed for a nature reserve, which has so far been subject to extreme restrictions. People have to coordinate, for example, the slope of the roof, the height of the foundation, etc. Such construction activities run counter to the existing nature conservation rules and the objectives of the Natura 2000 network. Please argue on the basis of which analyses it was found that the construction of the radar station in Tõikamägi is the best option!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U6	Thank you, Honourable Asker. First of all, this radar station is well-needed for our defense. In the interests of the security of our country, Estonia must have air surveillance capabilities. Air surveillance radar in Kelvere has been established for this purpose, a radar in Muhu has recently been opened, and the Ministry of Defence plans to establish such radar in Tõikamägi. This is how Estonia gets air surveillance capabilities. So we can say that we have an overview of our airspace, we're capable of producing this image. The Air Force did a very thorough analysis. There were nearly 20 objects to choose from. Due to the landscape relief of South Estonia, it is clear that the radar should be located not in the valley but on the hill. The basic criterion of assessment was, of course, linked to the capacity of this facility to produce radar images. Two places significantly better than the others were Kuutsemägi and Tõikamägi. Others had shortcomings that did not guarantee the desired quality and were not fully used as alternatives or could not be used without unreasonable negative effects. The Defence Forces ruled out Kuutsemäe because it is mainly privately owned land that is actively used and of great importance to the tourism industry in the region. I stress that like Tõikamägi, Kuutsemägi is located in Otepää Nature Park, but significantly more in open terrain. Building it would be more contrary to the conservation objective of the park. Undoubtedly, there was an important reason why we preferred Tõikamägi, as well as the need for security reasons to produce radar images from areas beyond our borders, and the location of Tõikamägi will help to achieve this goal better.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U7	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U8	Thank you for your answer. But I'm still going on with the subject that a military object is being built on a nature reserve. All those people who have acquired real estate there and who live there know that there are restrictions, people who have taken them into account. For example, a native wanted to build a 25 - metre - high wind generator near his home, but the municipal council asked him to carry out an environmental impact study and consequently the construction of that generator was excluded. It was said that such a building would aesthetically contaminate the entire natural environment. However, the Otepää Municipality Government does not consider a strategic environmental impact assessment necessary in the process of planning the establishment of the radar station. Shouldn't more in-depth analyses and impact assessments be carried out prior to the construction of such state-of-the-art buildings in order to avoid unequal treatment of the population there? Why hasn't this been done by county planning?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U9	Thank you. It is certainly important that a comprehensive analysis of environmental impacts has been carried out. On the plan of Tõikamäe, the Environmental Board has given its clear position and coordinated this plan. But this coordination did not go so easily. The Ministry of Defence and the Environmental Board analysed the submitted plan application for nearly two years. I would stress that it was precisely in the interests of conservation and the environment that significant changes were made. In the course of intense negotiations, the 15-hectare defence land initially applied for was reduced three times, the buildings were positioned as compactly as possible to reduce deforestation, the roads were built with an arc, hidden from sight, using as many existing pathways and targets as possible, and the habitats and oaks of the third category were preserved. As a result of the negotiations, the crew's home and heliport were moved out of the nature park. Environmental biologists did a very thorough analysis. They charted the habitats and valuable communities on Tõikamägi to avoid harming them. For the first time, a three-dimensional visualization, or landscape theatre, was developed at a rural university in nature park to get an overview of the nature of the facility. These assessments have been made. As far as the strategic environmental impact assessment is concerned, the preliminary assessments carried out by experts revealed that the object does not cause significant environmental impacts. In the course of the planning, activities have been concentrated and it has been confirmed that there is no significant impact. The Environmental Board therefore took the view that an assessment of this type of strategic environmental impact was not necessary, but that sufficient information was available to enable a prudent nature conservation approach to be drawn up that this facility would not conflict with the conservation restrictions imposed in that area.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U10	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U11	Thank you. Dear Minister, Many local people believe that an environmental impact assessment is very necessary and I suggest that you continue to address this issue. However, it can be concluded that if a state or ministry needs an object (I do not say that it is not necessary), in many cases the state will establish itself with a stronger law and get what it needs. I would draw a parallel here with the target protection zone of Tallikõõsu in Haanja Nature Park in Võrumaa. The restriction zone is intended to transform it into a special protection zone and to strengthen all economic activities in the area. Often, the South-Easters get the impression that if a country needs something, the state will introduce it, but very few concessions will be made when a citizen needs something. When the Prime Minister returns from his vacation, tell him that he should listen more to the opinion of the people. At other times, make concessions to people, because the people are the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U12	Thank you. What I'm saying is, you have to listen to people's opinions. The Ministry of Defence has held six public consultations on this issue. I would stress that the decision to approve a detailed plan is taken by the local community at municipal level. It is therefore very important for us to have this decision in dialogue. Certainly the state is not in a position of strength here, but is an applicant for a detailed plan, but it is undoubtedly an object of very strong public interest with very specific needs. However, I stress once again that there has been no damage to the interests of the environment or nature conservation, and the Environmental Board has made its assessment of this. As far as health requirements are concerned, the Health Board has also assessed that there are no problems. With regard to this facility, it is important that we have developed a good intentions agreement with the municipality government. This agreement would also benefit the local community. The Ministry is ready to reconstruct the access route to the radar post. Inevitably, we also need to place a new medium voltage earth cable, which is also in the interests of the local community. It is not even less important that at least 10 more jobs are created in the municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U13	Thank you very much. Let's go to the issues registered on the spot. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The appeal of the citizens of the village of ridicule, with more than 40 signatures, must be taken very seriously because they are concerned about their lives and the environment in which they carry out their daily activities. I am pleased that the Ministry has also been constantly working on this issue. You have highlighted some of the investments that are being made in connection with this radar station. There has been something done in Muhu, as far as I know, in the field of civil and military cooperation, and there has also been something done in Nursipalu. Is there anything else on that list you asked me when you answered the question about civil and military cooperation for the villagers or Otepää parishes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U15	Thank you. The representatives of the Ministry have drawn up this good intentions agreement with the representatives of the municipality and the Village Elder of Pilkus. Undoubtedly, the Ministry's proposals for investments are primarily due to the objective of establishing a defence object. However, we have clearly expressed our willingness to show our goodwill and spirit of cooperation on defence projects of public interest, and we are ready to further support where cooperation with the municipality can be agreed. We have also confirmed that it is certainly in our interest to support the activities of the local community, the local village society.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U16	Thank you very much. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U17	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! It is clear that defence objects are needed and will be built where they are best placed from the point of view of defence. On the other hand, we know that it is always the building of such objects for local residents, such as lightning from the clear sky. At the same time, we know that we have long-term defence plans. Can't these things be brought together so that the lightning doesn't come out of the blue? I think we should inform the public first, and it'll go a little softer. What is being done and how?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U18	Thank you. The long-term planning of the defence has been established with a new 10-year national defence development plan, which was approved by the government in January. Its sub-document is the Investment Plan for the next four years, which will enable us to provide clearer answers and negotiate with local authorities. Our interest is that it is understandable to all parties involved. But I want to stress that this radar station is not a unique project. The clock blood has been operating on radar that matches exactly the same parameters for ten years. A few weeks ago, Muhu's radar was opened, built in dialogue with the local community. The interest of the Ministry is that people can understand the matter, that questions can be answered, and that, in response to the possible hesitations of the people, there can be exhaustive explanations. Where necessary, clear guarantees must also be provided. The arguments put forward by the Ministry and submitted by other public authorities concerning safety and conservation must be guaranteed by the State, and the state must pay for the word. This is our clear starting point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U19	Thank you. Please, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U20	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good minister! I'm asking from the same sentence that the word of the state, the word of the ministry, must pay. Unfortunately, we have seen over time that civil and military cooperation, or CIMIC, has often not paid the state's word. The state has withdrawn from its promises on many occasions, and this has caused people perhaps to defy the Ministry, not the Estonian Defence Forces, defence or our state. If we see that there is a great deal of opposition from the people to the establishment of important defence objects, or people have a lot of questions, should we, for example, change the principles of civil and military cooperation, or the CIMIC, perhaps contribute significantly more to it? Is there a plan to change CIMIC's strategy, to do it from a different perspective, so that people would like more defence objects in their home area in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U21	Thank you. I had a conversation with Muhu's parish elder about setting up a radar station. He was delighted that more jobs had been created in Muhu and that roads had been repaired. This station had not caused any problems. I think that the basic starting point is that the Ministry and the State do have great public interests, but both the Ministry and the State are only one applicant for the plan. The local community, the parish, will definitely decide on the plan. It is in our interest that this should take place in partnership so that both parties can feel that it will benefit both national defence tasks and the local community. I think that our initiative to conclude an agreement on good intentions, which includes the guarantees that the country gives, where people understandably have inside, what positive changes are taking place in local life, when this facility is erected, can be called an additional dimension in the area of military and civil cooperation. Once again, this is a necessary facility for Estonia. It's safe. The local community will be built on infrastructure improvements. According to the Environmental Board, experts have considered these impacts and it has become apparent that this facility takes account of nature conservation and the environment. The local community makes a decision and local people have the right to express their feelings. The questions that local people are asking must be answered clearly. For this reason, the Ministry, as I was referring to, has held six public debates. We are ready to continue with the open approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U22	Thank you very much. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U23	Kadri Simson next asks the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas, about the pension. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U24	Thank you. Minister of Social Affairs! In April, it makes perfect sense to ask about pensions, as the pension index will be established on 1 April. Our old-age pensions have lost their purchasing power in three years, between 2010, 2011 and 2012 and either there has been no pension increase or it has been less than the price increase. I'm relying on data from Statistics. This year, too, pensions did not increase as much as indexation would have expected: 5% instead of 7%. Does the Ministry of Social Affairs have a plan or a timetable for restoring the purchasing power of pensions at the 2010 level?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U25	Thank you. Indeed, April is the month when the pension index is established in the literal language, but in the beautiful Estonian language, pensions rise. We can say with full confidence that pensions will grow faster this year than the cost of living and, according to current knowledge and all forecasts, they will grow faster in the coming years. The rise in pensions is well above the cost of living this year and in the coming years. If we look beyond the past, we can see that, for example, pensions have grown 2.65 times in Estonia compared to ten years ago. It's a pretty short period of time looking back. Exactly ten years ago, Juhan Parts sitting next to me became Prime Minister. We all remember it as if it had been quite recently. This 2.65-fold increase has been significantly greater than the increase in the cost of living over a comparable period. But we must certainly stand up for pensions to grow this year and in the years to come and grow faster than the cost of living. The main option, perhaps even the only one, is that Estonia will continue with a growth-friendly policy, because we know that the only sustainable source of pension growth is economic growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U26	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U27	Thank you. I don't want to go into memories ten years ago. I think we'd all be surprised to look at the house expenses bill ten years ago. But this year it has happened that a significant proportion of pensioners, especially those with a higher pension, for example because they have been repressed, have discovered themselves in a situation where their pension goes under income tax. Did the situation in which pensioners have to pay income tax from their pension come as a surprise to the Ministry of Social Affairs because the income tax-free minimum has not been raised for five years? Is there another, faster solution for those pensioners who have to pay income tax, or is it the only option to raise the tax-free minimum next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U28	Thank you. There are two different tax-free minimum rates in Estonia. One rate is general, it applies to everyone and is currently EUR 144. In addition, all pensioners are entitled to an additional tax exemption of EUR 192. These two amounts together amount to EUR 336, which is a few euros higher than the average pension now, after the increase in pension. That is why we can say this year that all pensioners receiving an average pension or below do not pay income tax on pensions. The pensioner will pay income tax if his pension exceeds 336 euros. Whether or not the average pension could be exempt from income tax in the coming years depends on the possibilities of the state. I'd really like it if that were the case. We have to take into account that it is not even possible to consider making all pensions exempt from income tax, just because we do not have much, but there are special pensions that exceed the so-called ordinary old-age pension several times. If we were to set such a high tax-free minimum, it would become impossible for the state to impose a burden, so to speak. The additional income tax-free minimum for pensioners will cost the Estonian state 126 million euros this year. If we want to raise this minimum, then we must certainly calculate the state's financial opportunities first.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U29	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U30	Thank you. Minister of Social Affairs! When we are talking about an average pension, it must be remembered that the pension gap is getting worse. There are people who receive quite a decent pension after retirement, but there are also those who have always worked in the Republic of Estonia for a very small salary, which means that their three years of work are equivalent to only one pension year. Is there a plan for helping people who are going to retire and discover that they are going to receive a very small pension?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U31	Thank you. I would point out that up to and including the 1990s, regardless of income, everyone's career was taken into account in the same way; this income component is the subject of the last 13 years. So for all those who have already retired or are about to retire, the majority, between two thirds and 100% of their working lives, is based on an old formula that does not take income into account. That's why in the late 1990s the income formula was made, I think, we all know pretty well here. At the same time, in order to significantly reduce the inequality in pensions, the basic pension component, which accounts for about 40% of the pension, has been increased over these years and also today, and which is growing faster than the part that depends on the person's working life and income. Thus, lower pensions will grow slightly faster than relatively higher pensions. This ensures that pensions are much, much more equal than people's incomes when they were still involved in working life.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U32	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U33	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Real pensions have fallen for several years in a row. It's been a pretty serious question. We've raised pensions less than we could have done by law. This year, when pensions were supposed to rise by 6.36%, they increased by 5%, if they could have risen by 5.4%, then 4%, if they had to rise by 14%, rose by 5%, and in one year, pensions were frozen altogether. As a result, the real pension has fallen. Last year the decline was relatively small, but in the year before and in the years before, the decline in real pensions was quite large. Don't you think you should increase pensions more now, at least as much as the law allows? Prices are rising, and you'll see home expenses roll up and up. These people don't have that much time to wait.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U34	Thank you. We raise pensions at the maximum rate that the state can afford. Your information, as if we were based on anything other than the law in force, is not true. Just as the law states, pensions in Estonia are growing. Much more than one minister or politicians' goodwill depends on how well our economy is doing. Growth contributes directly to pension growth through an increase in the income of social tax. In addition to economic growth, there are other factors that are directly or indirectly related to the state of the economy and have helped Estonia to raise pensions to this extent as one of the few European countries in recent years. This factor is, for example, a very rapid fall in unemployment. Compared to two and a half years ago, we have more than doubled unemployment. As a result, we have more people who pay social tax, and there is more money in the pension fund and we can pay higher pensions. All of this requires a consistent policy by the state that favours growth rather than curbing growth with all kinds of additional burdens or administrative barriers. It is therefore in the interests of the elderly in particular, but of the whole society, of course, that there should be a policy in Estonia that favours economic growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U35	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U36	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of Social Affairs! The availability of services, and in particular the availability of care home services, is also linked to the size of the pension. There are currently no nursing homes for the elderly in Estonia where the elderly can buy services for an average pension, whether the municipality or children need to contribute more. You have said in the media that there is no shortage of nursing homes, rather there is a lack of solvency. For the same reason, precisely because of the small amount of pensions, people are often unable to buy home care services. Municipalities have no obligation and often no ability to provide these services free of charge. You've put forward an idea like a real estate pension, but not everyone has real estate. In the Republic of Estonia, it would probably be possible to live with dignity as an elderly person if the government took certain measures and took certain steps. During your ministry, have you planned something to ensure that the Constitution is complied with and that the elderly can age with dignity?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U37	Thank you. This subject has been familiar to me for over seven years. I know quite precisely what the situation is in Estonian nursing homes. I know what it's like with queues and what the cost of one or the other nursing home service is. The truth is that if we look at Estonia as a whole, it is as if there is no problem because we have over 6500 nursing homes and there are just over 6,000 recipients. If you look at the whole picture, it looks like there's over 500 vacant seats and everything's kind of fine. At the same time, it is also worth monitoring that there are areas where the number of places is more limited or the demand is higher. Therefore, no generalisation can be made, concluding that there are no queues at all. I have also said that the actual bottleneck is a service payment. The 24-hour care service is, of course, expensive, that is understandable. These prices vary greatly, but the average pension in Estonia has covered 60.92% of the price of this service over the years. What are the possibilities to pay for this service? I have proposed solutions for public debate here. In addition to real estate pension, we need to discuss very seriously what solidarity between generations is in this regard. If we come to this question in the second half of Question Time, we can certainly talk more about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U38	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U39	Thank you. Good minister! There was news today that Latvia is planning a pension increase over several years. They do this only in the second half of the year and make it dependent on how taxes are collected in the first half of the year. How many countries in Europe with the current poor economic situation are there who can raise pensions, as we do?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U40	Thank you. That's a very good question. I must admit that I cannot say the exact number of countries by heart, but these countries are not too many. The reason is very simple. When Estonia faced an economic crisis, it reacted quickly and came out of the crisis very quickly. However, most other European countries are still in deep stagnation, or even recession, in economic terms. This, of course, limits their ability to raise pensions as well as all other public expenditure. Moreover, they are still under pressure to reduce public spending. The reduction of pensions is also an issue which, unfortunately, is at issue in a number of European countries very seriously. Estonia is unique in this sense, however, that despite the very great recession and the fact that we made cuts in almost every area of life, we decided to leave our pensions untouched by cuts, we decided not to lower pensions. The index at that time was negative, the pressure on society, one might say, was on both sides. There was also a great deal of pressure to reduce pensions in order to ensure the sustainability of public finances. The government decided not to cut pensions back then, and it did very well. As a result, we can talk about the fact that we have, in essence, an increase in pensions every year, both during the crisis and now, at least an increase in the average pension. In recent years, all pensions have grown. It's important. I think the decisions that were made at the time were correct. I regret that not all European countries can discuss how many percent of pensions will increase, but many countries will be forced to discuss how many percent will have to be cut.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U41	Thank you. Let us close the debate on this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U42	Let's go to the next question. Karel Rüütli has asked the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, about subsidies for renewable energy. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The Estonian state has set itself a goal and committed to the European Union to reducing environmental pollution and increasing the share of renewable energy. Several national development plans, such as the nature conservation development plan until 2020, the national energy economic development plan until 2020 and the Estonian environmental strategy until 2030, highlight the need to promote renewable energy. According to the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of the Environment (this is last week's information), the Estonian state does not intend to direct the European Union to the 2014-2020. A cent of the 2005 structural funds, or euro, to support micro- and micro-manufacture equipment for renewable energy (small windmills, solar panels, solar collectors, etc.). Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U44	Thank you. First of all, I am very pleased to inform you that last night the government reached principled agreements on three important issues. It was decided on the fundamental framework for the country's budgetary strategy up to 2017 to reach an agreement on the allocation of resources between sectors and to approve the principles for the use of European Union funds up to 2020. All of this together provides an opportunity to implement the sectoral development strategies, taking into account real resources. Among other things, these were forecasts up to 2020, how the potential revenues from the carbon quota market could be used for energy and climate policy purposes. On the basis of these agreements, I can say today that your argument is not true. Small renewable energy solutions certainly do not aim to achieve the overall objective of using renewable energy, because let us be honest, the proportion of these solutions is too low. Rather, the aim here is to better regulate final energy consumption. These opportunities certainly exist in agreements on the use of European Union funds. The renovation programme for apartment buildings continues, with a separate measure for the development of renewable energy. Using the revenues of carbon dioxide quotas, we also see the possibility of micro-solutions for small homes, the earliest in 2015. This depends very much on the debate taking place in the European Union on the reduction of CO2 quotas, which, as we know, had a slight setback in the European Parliament last week. In other words, the answer to your question is in the affirmative, these opportunities exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U45	Thank you. Please, Karel Rüütel, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U46	Thank you. From the point of view of private consumption, it is important that the micro-power plant allows the price of electricity to be fixed over a long period of time and thus to some extent reduce domestic costs. From the state's point of view, it is important that state support measures for micro-production equipment also enable private individuals and businesses to be involved in making the Estonian energy sector more sustainable. Can you tell me the extent to which the government intends to support, in the coming period, the production of small energy capacities in particular?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U47	Thank you. In fact, this depends on specific investment projects for apartment buildings, small houses or also public buildings. The programme for the renovation of apartment buildings will continue at least to EUR 102.4 million, which will come from the resources for the new period of use of the European Structural Funds. The renovation of each apartment building also includes the upgrading of the heating system, with the possibility of producing electricity even locally, all based on the renovation project. When we talk about small-scale solutions, solar panels, collectors and small windmills, the main issue is their price. I say, just in case, if we look at their price or investment price, compared to bigger windmills, not to mention conventional electrical or heat production equipment, their price per unit is 3 to 3.5 times higher. If I look at this project that we did a few years ago, I must repeat that, in terms of national renewable energy targets, this is a marginal activity. If such a small solution is appropriate, it will help regulate electricity consumption, but it will not have any public or wide-ranging effect. But don't get me wrong! If these solutions are suitable for one building or another, I think they should be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U48	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U49	Thank you. Investment prices fall from year to year, as equipment develops, becomes more sustainable, etc. In particular, the solutions you have mentioned are important for small consumers, households that are able to reduce home costs. But Estonian entrepreneurs have been extremely smart and innovative. Estonia produces solar panels, small windmills, small co-generation plants that use biomass, network inverters, etc. How do you think we would be able to develop all this innovatively in Estonia if we have a very modest and skeptical view of this whole area?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U50	I wouldn't say that. Our innovation or research programmes include an energy technology programme that has supported a number of such small projects. If we look at the programme of competence centres, the cluster development programme and the possible tools directed by the government, we can see that there was, in fact, contact with the development of small energy test solutions or innovative solutions in the past period. In these cases, however, the central problem is what their potential is to be able to compete with other solutions in the market, not only in the Estonian market, but in the global market. That's the biggest problem. We are making venture capital investments with public resources in the Development Fund; there are several projects in our portfolio. But once again, the key is whether we have enough people and capital if there is a good idea or a already ready product to compete in the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U51	Thank you. Now the questions registered on the spot. Please, Tiit Tammsaar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U52	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I'm glad to hear that they're still trying to do something, someday in the future, in 2015. The rural people are often older people, maybe they can wait, maybe they can't. But I still want to know more specifically. The only thing that's happened so far is that a couple or three windmills have been set up and a couple of enthusiasts have hit a couple of panels on the roof. Maybe you could still find out what these volumes are? You said that apartment buildings would receive more than 100 million euros. What could be the size of the allowance for private homes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U53	I can talk about volumes for you to get a better grip on the subject. By the way, 2015 is not far off. I don't know if you're living in time ten years ago, I just came up with an association like that. With the pilot project, we invested EUR 1 million in pilot renewable energy solutions. What did we get for this in Estonia? For 113 kilowatts of windmills and 165 kilowatts of solar panels. If we reduce them to the unit price, as I said earlier in answer to the question of Karel Rüütel, it turns out that they are 3 to 3.5 times more expensive than so-called conventional production or larger windmills. That's actually the problem. If these solutions were competitive, I think all the landlords and housing associations would use them. We must leave to owners the right to make their choices when using heat or energy and to see to what extent it makes economic sense to resolve it locally.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U54	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, there was a big demonstration in front of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications on Monday, where the former Minister of Economic Affairs, waving flags, demanded cheaper electricity and your resignation. In this Chamber, the Democrats and the Social Democrats have repeatedly tabled a draft which provides that the renewable energy fee could be offset by the proceeds from the sale of carbon quotas. Perhaps we have provided a helping hand twice to make the final price of electricity more than 10% cheaper for the consumer. Don't you think this idea deserves to be considered, or do you have another plan? Or are you just hoping that the previous Minister for Economic Affairs, along with the flags and the people, will get tired and run out of energy?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U56	Thank you. With your permission, I'm not going to comment on these third Reich-style events, but I'm essentially answering. We have looked at both you and the Social Democrats' drafts. I believe that you need real information about what opportunities and possible revenues the European carbon market offers to the Estonian state. I also believe that you will monitor this stock exchange price The price of carbon dioxide has fallen to around EUR 2.5 per tonne. If you look at the quotas that are still in Estonia's hands, you will see that what the consumer currently supports is 'clean electricity' or 'cleaner energy', the order of magnitude is more. Even if it were reasonable to organise it like this, it would not be financially possible. With regard to renewable energy subsidies, I'm still looking at this hall. The government bill is here, you have worked hard, and we very much hope that you will adopt this law. We are currently consulting the European Commission on the authorisation of state aid. I really hope that this relief is feasible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U57	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U58	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Although I am a slightly younger man than Tiit, I also think that 2015 may prove to be a long way off when we talk about the fact that it is only the beginning of 2013 and, if not earlier in 2015, new political parties will be responsible for what is happening in Estonia. However, when we are talking about small production, not energy saving, the European Union envisages that it should be developed, every country in the European Union should do so. What sources and what amounts do you see for this in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U59	Once again, the measure of EUR 10 million in KredEx for apartment buildings is open. If the building management company is doing its house reconstruction project, its basic part is a new solution to the heating system. Whether to use a small windmill, put a solar panel on the roof, or a solar collector to make warm water, that depends on the solution. We support the renovation of apartment buildings, depending on the energy savings to be achieved, which also means reducing home costs by 35%, 25% or 15% of the investment project. I said that next year, the programme to support the renovation of apartment buildings will continue on an unprecedented scale: more than EUR 102 million of European Union funds have been earmarked for this. In addition, we are talking about'micro-solutions' that should be designed for small homes. It is worth up to EUR 5 million. We are also talking about possible additional support for renewable energy. We are talking about supporting the warm economy. That the state is giving money out of a bag, saying go buy some sort of solar panel and walk around the Old Town of Tallinn with it, this government is not going to do it. Your next government in the dream will certainly do so, but then we will be bankrupt with the Estonian state quite quickly, and after that, normal life with a normal government will be able to start going on again.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U60	Thank you. Let's take another question registered on the spot. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U61	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Your speech gave the impression that the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act had somehow been entangled in the Riigikogu. However, your own ministry officials asked us to interrupt the second reading so that the European Commission could be clarified in the authorisation of State aid. What about whether we're misinformed or whether we're you?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U62	No way! I'm sorry if there was any way I could tell that I was performing with some reproach on this hall! It is none of my business and I have no mandate for it. I'm looking at this hall with great respect. I can talk about my subjective expectations. When the government came up with the draft electricity market law, my modest expectation was that this procedure would go faster. But I fully respect this rather complicated debate. We know the details of this debate, and I also respect this agreement. I understand that, on the advice of the lawyers, there is an agreement that before we go to third reading with this draft, we will have close consultations with the European Commission. These consultations are ongoing, we have spoken on this issue several times in the round of questions and answers. I would like to point out that this is not a complaint, but I believe it will be useful to inform you that one of the questions that the Commission has now put in an informal round of questions is whether the Riigikogu intends to change the bill in the course of the second reading and if it intends to change it, why do we go to them then. This is a new situation for us in that sense. But I really hope that these agreements will persist, and we will be able to do so in the next few months, I do not dare to say that in the coming weeks, because it is up to the European Commission to decide, it is their independent process, the principle response, that the proposed scheme is acceptable. Then there's a way to get on with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U63	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U64	We can also discuss the fourth issue. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul, a question for Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U65	Thank you. My question concerns people with special needs. We know that about 65000 applications for disability are submitted annually to the Social Insurance Board. These requests are a stack of stacks, and they are extremely hard to deal with; it takes enormous hours to work, and thousands of euros are also spent on the salaries of committee members. Most people are already applying for disability for several times, for the fourth or fifth time, some have applied for more. Why, for example, do you think that the same physician who prescribes treatment for a person with severe disabilities could not personally assess whether a person has a special need or not? We could save money and heal more people. Why is an expert doctor who actually decides by paperwork better than a doctor who comes into contact with a person himself?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U66	Thank you. We have talked quite a lot recently in this Chamber about the fact that we are going to cut red tape when it comes to assigning trees. But we have much bigger plans in this area. Indeed, as the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications has already said, just before midnight yesterday, we reached an agreement on how to allocate funds for the new budget period of the European Union. As a result of this agreement, we will also be able to take a major step towards helping people with special needs who want to be active in working life so that they do not feel excluded from working life. To do so, we are going to appreciate not so much man's inability to work as his or her ability to work. We want to see what this tool or service is, with the help of a person, of course, provided that he/she very much wants to be active in society and in working life and involved in working but also elsewhere. This requires a huge amount of investment. We have foreseen very large sums of money from the European Union for this purpose. If we do this, I think it will answer your question much more than specifically what is involved in the process of determining disability. It helps solve these people's problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U67	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, the first point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U68	Thank you. I'm afraid maybe the patient is losing it. I've been talking to social workers, and they're really scared of this new system. But let's see. Yet, all these years have been wasted huge amounts of money. Counsellor of the Patient Representative Society Iiv Kallaste has pointed out that there are people who have some serious brain damage since birth, some inborn genetic defect, a lifelong condition, but they still have to go somewhere every two years and show themselves. Huge bureaucracy! Why can't we do, for example, in Finland, where a parent goes to a doctor with a child, the doctor determines the degree of disability and directs the child to a counsellor who prescribes the treatment? But we're getting tens of thousands of rehabilitation plans, and we're never gonna be able to heal, because we're just gonna run out of money first. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U69	Thank you. If you have concrete proposals in this area, I would be happy to get to know them. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that far from all the trees are unchanged in time. There are certain disabilities that, unfortunately, are getting worse, and that is why a person needs either a different treatment plan or greater support from the state, but there are also those that may disappear in part or in part. I would not start simplifying this issue as you did in your own question, but I understand that the time for questioning is limited. If you have concrete proposals on how to better regulate the determination of trees in Estonia, send them to us and we will discuss them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U70	Thank you. Marika Tuus-Laul, second question. We can hear a very short point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U71	Let me ask you a little bit about the other side. There is also a major problem for those who care for bedridden. Peeter Mardna, a health expert, has suggested that more support for home care could be paid at 50% of the amount needed to provide the same service in the hospital, currently at around 10%. We are building new nursing homes and hospitals, but if the state could provide more support for a sick person at home, so that pensionable periods are taken into account for this work, the situation would be much better.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U72	Thank you. It is true that we have built a lot of care hospitals and that we also need to build nursing homes, especially in special care. I wouldn't oppose these two issues. But in welfare, we have very big plans. We want to significantly reduce the maintenance burden on our own people. It was an interesting coincidence that in the same week as I began working as Minister of Social Affairs, the Riigikogu discussed personal care as a matter of national importance. In their little more than four months, we prepared and agreed on the allocation of European Union funds just before midnight yesterday. We can contribute to special care infrastructure and ensure that municipalities can help their own in home care much more than they have done so far. They can provide services that reduce people's care burden and help these people participate in employment. As I said, we have very big plans in this area. Thanks to the agreement we reached yesterday on the distribution of European Union funds in the government, we can take a very long step forward in informal care.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U73	Thank you very much. Question Time's over. Thank you very much to all the members of the government who were responding!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U74	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 12th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Aivar Rahno, representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U75	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today initiating a draft law amending the Aliens Act and the Identity Documents Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the government is represented by Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U76	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U77	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, It is my honour, on behalf of the Central Party Group, to hand over the draft law amending the advertising law, which we would like to restrict the advertising of energy drinks. I'm sure you all remember that we discussed this matter almost a year ago when we tried to limit the sale of energy drinks to minors. At the time, we barely had a picture of the votes missing so the bill would have gone through. Obviously, everyone understands from both the opposition and the coalition that the energy drinks that children drink are evil, and during this debate, the realisation emerged that, at least in sports events and programmes aimed at children, advertising should be restricted, as well as outdoor advertising, etc. I hope this bill will also receive the support of this hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U78	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two draft laws. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 84 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present; no 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U79	We're gonna get on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft Industrial Emissions Act 345 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We shall proceed to the final vote on this draft. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft Industrial Emissions Act 345 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U80	The second item is the second reading of the draft Act 384 on the ratification of the Paris Protocol to the Paris Protocol between the Supreme Headquarters of the Republic of Estonia and NATO's European Forces and the High Commander's Headquarters for NATO development. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the National Defence Committee member Tõnu July!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U81	Honourable Vice President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The National Defence Committee discussed the draft Act ratifying the Paris Protocol Supplementary Agreement between the Supreme Headquarters of the Republic of Estonia and NATO's European Forces and the headquarters of the Supreme Commander for NATO development before submitting to second reading at the meeting on 16 April. The National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft law be included on the Riigikogu agenda for the second reading on 24 April. No amendments were tabled by the deadline for amendments, 4 April. In linguistic and technical terms, the text of the draft text at first reading was correct, so the text of the draft text at second reading is identical to the text at first reading. The draft also involves a meeting of the National Defence Commission on 8 April at the NATO Cyber Defence Cooperation Centre. The Centre is the only institution with military headquarters status in Estonia so far. The status of this authority is governed by the Paris Protocol and, when this Supplementary Agreement is ratified, amended and the Additional Agreement enters into force, the Agreement can also be extended to staff of the NATO Centre for Cyber Defence Cooperation. According to representatives of the Cyber Defence Cooperation Centre, an additional agreement to the Paris Protocol is necessary and will allow for a better selection of staff from the NATO countries participating in the Cyber Defence Centre. All NATO Member States are parties to the Paris Protocol. The conclusion of an additional agreement to the Paris Protocol will create an important legal environment in order to increase NATO's presence in Estonia if necessary. An additional agreement has been concluded between those NATO countries on whose territory NATO has institutions with military headquarters status, such as Belgium, Italy and Germany. In addition to Estonia, Lithuania is also entering into this additional agreement from the Baltic States. On 9 February 2012, the Management Board of the Riigikogu approved guidelines for shaping good practice in the processing of draft laws in the Riigikogu. Point 2 of the Guidelines states that where a draft law pending by the commission of directors proposes amendments of fundamental importance to another law falling within the field of the Commission, the commission shall seek the opinion of the other committee. On the basis of the draft, the National Defence Committee sought the opinion of the Committee on Finance, Culture and Constitutional Affairs on the draft law 384 and 385. These committees supported the draft law 384 and also presented their views on the draft law 385. At its meeting on 16 April, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to approve the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum to the second reading. On the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu that the draft law be put to a final vote at the second reading and adopted as a law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U82	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Tõnu Juul! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. No amendments to this draft were tabled. The proposal of the Steering Committee is to adopt draft 384. Let's get ready for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act 384 on the ratification of the Paris Protocol Supplementary Agreement between the High Headquarters of the Republic of Estonia and NATO's European Forces and the High Commander's Headquarters for NATO development. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U83	The third item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Paris Protocol between the Republic of Estonia and the High Headquarters of the NATO European Forces and the High Commander of NATO Development, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, in connection with the ratification of the Supplementary Agreement on the Law Amendment Act 385. I would like to ask Tõnu July, member of the National Defence Commission for a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U84	Honourable Vice President! Dear Riigikogu! The National Defence Committee discussed the draft law amending the Paris Protocol on ratification of the Supplementary Agreement between the High Headquarters of the Republic of Estonia and NATO's European Force and the High Commander for Development, before submitting to second reading at its meeting on 16 and 22 April, and proposed that it be included on the agenda for the second reading by 24 April. In connection with this bill, we also addressed the Riigikogu Committee on Finance, Culture and Constitutional Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. The proposals received from them were finalised by the National Defence Committee at its meeting on 22 April as amendments to the National Defence Committee. Further on the amendments. The first amendment clarifies the law on state fees and, in the cases provided for in the foreign treaty, provides the basis for the exemption from the payment of the state fee. According to the original text of the draft law, in the case of foreign contracts, the law on state fees should have been amended each time in order to exempt State fees from payment. The other amendments were of a specification, technical nature and did not create new bases for taxation and tax exemption. At the meeting of 16 April, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the second reading of the draft. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U85	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Tõnu Juul! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The Steering Committee has tabled three amendments to this draft. Let's go through them. The first amendment, the second amendment and the third amendment. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 385. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U86	The fourth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I ask for a presentation of Urve Tiidus, member of the Chair of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! As the representative of the Monetary Commission, I will review the procedure for amending the Law on Investment Funds between the first and second readings. First of all, I recall very briefly the content of the draft law 408. The existing regulation has proved inadequate for closed-ended investment funds whose units are offered to professional investors. These funds are characterised by investors being able to redeem their shares on expiry of a certain longer period, i.e. they will not be redeemed earlier than one year from the date of submission of the claim. The draft aims to eliminate the legal uncertainty that may arise in the liquidation of the fund described above. The amendment must ensure that, where necessary, the Financial Supervision Authority can intervene, which, in the event of a lack of cooperation in the general meeting, will decide on the liquidation of the Fund itself and will also appoint the competent liquidators to take over the management of the Fund. No amendments were received by the deadline for their submission. The Commission forwarded the draft opinion to the Estonian Banking Association and the Estonian Fund Managers' Association. The Ministry of Finance and the Association of Estonian Fund Managers sent their proposals to clarify the draft. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft again on 16 April and unanimously made three related amendments to the draft, which have been included in the list of amendments as a single amendment with clarifications. Thomas Honourable, Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, was present in the Commission to explain the details made. According to the Ministry's specifications, enforcement of the law is waived in favour of the general entry into force of the law. In order to keep pace, it was considered sufficient to carry out the second and third readings of the draft in the same week, as shown by the Riigikogu's agenda this week. That will be the case if the second reading is completed today. In essence, the draft explains when the Financial Supervision Authority may decide to terminate a closed fund. According to the draft, the unit-holders will be given two months to take a liquidation decision. If the unit-holders have not found a new management company for the fund within two months of the end of the management company's management power or have decided to terminate the fund, the Financial Supervision Authority shall have the right to decide whether the fund is to be wound up. The Commission was asked to specify the actions or events that will run for two months. Let these important points also be mentioned here. The right of governance ends: 1) if the management company's authorisation is revoked, 2) if the management company is compulsorily wound up, 3) if the bankruptcy of the management company or the bankruptcy proceedings against the management company decline to cover the costs of bankruptcy proceedings due to the lack of assets. The Commission decided to make an amendment to the draft, as I mentioned above, three amendments to the list of amendments included as one amendment, to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 24 April, i.e. today, to propose that the second reading be discontinued, and, if the second reading is completed, to send the draft to the third reading by 25 April. All Commission decisions were taken unanimously. On 22 April, the Commission was informed of the government's opinion, which was supportive of the draft, and the third reading of the draft was also discussed. The Commission again proposed unanimously that the draft be put to the final vote tomorrow. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U88	Thank you. Please, any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Urve Tiidus. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission has tabled one amendment, we will review it. The amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The amendment has been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 408. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U89	Our fifth item today is the second reading of the draft Hunting Act 351 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation by Mr Kalle Palling, Member of the Committee on the Environment of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft Hunting Act was completed in s. 23 January 2004 and the deadline for tabling amendments was set in s. 11 February at 4 p.m. Amendments were tabled as follows: member of the Riigikogu Rait Marusekuse; member of the Riigikogu Kalev Kotkas - seven amendments; member of the Riigikogu Tõnu Juul - seven amendments; group of the Centre Party - two amendments. The Committee on the Environment finalised 17 amendments. Between first and second readings, the draft has been dealt with nine times at Commission meetings. Representatives of the Estonian Private Forest Association, the Estonian Hunters' Society, the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, the Estonian Owners' Confederation and the Estonian Farmers' Confederation took part in the extraordinary public session of the Environment Committee on 4 February, who expressed the interests of landowners and hunters and gave their opinion on the draft. At this meeting, representatives of associations such as the Hunters' think tank, the Estonian Society for Animal Welfare, the Estonian Ornithological Society, the Estonian Association of Bird Interesters and the Mountains of the Archery Club also presented their views to the members of the committee. All Commission meetings on the draft Hunting Act have been attended and explained by representatives of the Ministry of the Environment. At its meeting on 16 April, the Committee on the Environment decided to propose to the Riigikogu that the second reading of draft 351 be terminated and, if the second reading of the draft is completed, that the draft be sent to the third reading. Now, with your kind permission, I would like to give a very thorough overview of the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 is intended to complement the provision of the draft, according to which hunting arrangements in the smaller islands with permanent settlement must be coordinated with the council of the island municipality or the General Assembly of the smaller islands. The content of Amendment 36 is to supplement § 5 (1) of the Small Islands Act, which regulates the competence of the General Assembly in the provision of coordination, with the organisation of hunting. The Committee on the Environment rejected these amendments, as such an extension of the draft is not appropriate. In the smaller islands, it is possible to intervene in the management of hunting both through landowners and local government bodies. For example, the interests of the inhabitants of the smaller islands are protected by § 3 (2) (1) of the draft, according to which the municipality can prohibit hunting by planning, § 9 on the establishment of a hunting council and its competence, and § 24 (in the second reading, § 25) (1) of the draft, according to which a contract must be concluded with the owners of immovable property for hunting purposes. Amendment 3 adds the provision for setting up a hunting council to the sentence: 'The working area of the hunting council must not exceed the county. 'The earlier wording was that the hunting council would be formed regionally. Hunters were afraid that maybe the decision will go very far from the county level, which is why we decided to change the wording of the draft. This amendment, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, has been drafted on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of the Environment. Amendment 4 amends § 9 (3) (2) of the draft and replaces the word 'decision' with 'conciliation'. This amendment is due to the need to clarify the nature of the YC. The Hunting Council is primarily an institution where agreements are concluded between the various parties. Amendment 13 amends § 21 (in the second reading, § 22) (1) of the draft and replaces the words 'the hunting capacity and structure of reindeer, red deer, wild boar and wild boars shall be decided each year by the hunting council' with the words 'the hunting capacity and structure of reindeer, red deer, wild boar and wild boars shall be agreed each hunting year in the hunting council'. This amendment is due to the need to clarify the basis for the agreement to be concluded in the hunting council in order to determine the volume of hunting of cloven-hoofed animals. This amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment has also been drafted on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of the Environment. Amendments 5 and 6. Amendment 5 amends the authorisation of the right to use the hunting area for an unlimited period of time. At several meetings of the Commission, problems related to the limitation period of the right to use the hunting area were discussed (unlimited permission does not motivate the users of the hunting area to take sufficient account of landowners, etc.), including inconsistency with the Constitution, and it was considered that an open-ended authorisation should be converted into a fixed-term period. According to this amendment, the right to use the hunting zone is granted for a period of 10 years and the validity of the permit is renewed on the basis of the relevant position of the hunting council. The amendment of the Committee on the Environment has been drafted on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of the Environment. Amendment 6 amends § 14 (4) of the draft text and reads as follows: 'The right to use a hunting area is granted for a limited period and conditionally. ' As a result of Amendment 5, the Committee on the Environment took this proposal into account in substance. Amendment 8 proposes to delete the words 'and the public interest in changing the right to use a hunting area' from the wording of the second sentence (point 2) of § 18 (in the second reading) of the draft. The Environment Committee heard the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment and decided not to accept the amendment because § 18 of the draft Hunting Act (in the second reading, § 19) (2) states that the right to use the hunting area will be changed if the legislation on the basis of the authorisation requirements for the right to use the hunting area has changed and the public interest in changing the right to use the hunting area outweighs the person's trust. Amendments 9 to 12 Amendment 9 amends one of the grounds for the withdrawal of the right to use a hunting area. According to § 19 (2) (2) of the draft (in the second reading § 20) the right to use the hunting area is withdrawn if landowners holding two thirds of the area of the hunting area have submitted a joint application for the revocation of the right to use the hunting area. This amendment amends the wording of the provision so that the right to use the hunting area can be withdrawn if landowners holding at least 51% of hunting area immovable property and at least 51% of hunting area have submitted a joint application for this purpose. The amendment is a consensual position of the interest groups and the political groups and members of the Riigikogu, according to which both the area occupied by the landowners and the number of immovable property on the hunting grounds will be taken into account when replacing the user of the hunting area. The amendment was drafted on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of the Environment. Following Amendment 9, the Committee on the Environment has taken account of Amendments 10 and 11 in substance and has disregarded Amendment 12. Amendment 16 complements the provisions governing the archery of the draft. First of all, a new § 26 (in the second reading, § 27) is added to the draft, according to which, within the meaning of the Hunting Act, a sports bow with a pull force of 20 to 45 kilograms, which is used for hunting and is weather-proofly marked with the hunting certificate number of the hunter. For hunting with a hunting rod, it is permitted to use a bowbolt weighing not less than 20 grams, equipped with a cut-crotch weighing not less than 6,4 grams and a cutting diameter of not less than 24 millimetres, with a weather-proof serial number of the hunter's certificate. The hunter is allowed to be used in small game hunting. As a result of the above, the draft is amended as follows: § 23 (1) is supplemented by a new point fixing a hunting boat as a permitted hunting gear; § 23 (4) is added to point 12, which prohibits hunting with a bow that is not a hunting bow; § 22 is supplemented by a new point 5, according to which hunting grounds are not considered to be hunting with a yacht in a bow bag or suitcase. In order to ensure analogy with the grand game attempt, subsection 33 of the draft (§ 35 of the second reading) is supplemented by paragraph 5, according to which the certificate of the archery test is also evidence of the right to hunt. The chapter on the liability of the draft is then supplemented by a new misdemeanour provision, which is to hunt without a certificate of archery test, and further specifying the hunting with a bow. Amendment 7 follows from § 14 (5) of the draft, according to which the right to use a hunting area is granted on condition that the applicant has an immovable property in the same hunting area or has a written agreement with at least one landowner holding immovable property in the same hunting area to organise hunting activities on his immovable property. Therefore, Paragraph 15 (2) of the draft has been amended and supplemented by the text of the provision requiring that the application be accompanied by information on the applicant's immovable property in that hunting area. Amendment 14 clarifies § 21 (§ 22 in the second reading) (4) of the draft text and obliges the Environmental Board to inform the user of the hunting area of the restrictions and conditions imposed, either directly, by post or electronically. How much time do I have left?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U91	It's seven minutes now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U92	Okay, then I'll make some more important changes. You can draw attention to what remains to be said after the questions. The following important amendment is No 25, which seeks to supplement § 29 (2) of the draft by the fact that the hunter must hold a valid certificate as a hunter. The Committee on the Environment has rejected the amendment because all hunters must have knowledge of the safety techniques and organisation of the hunt. The requirement for a separate mention of a hunter is impractical and often difficult to do, for example in a joint hunt with the participation of two hunters, the requirement for special training for a hunter is not justified. Hunters, together with many participants, choose a person who knows the local conditions and has authority among hunters to lead the hunt. Amendment 29 has been amended by the text of § 42 of the draft (in the second reading, § 44) in view of the fact that the damage caused by wild cloven-hoofed animals must be compensated for in respect of all crops, not only cereals, potatoes and vegetables. On the basis of this amendment, in addition to those mentioned above, a number of crops have been added to compensate for the damage. Now probably the most important amendment, which has also attracted the most attention and raised debates in the Commission. This is Amendment 30, which supplements the draft with the new § 43 (in the second reading § 45) on the establishment of a reserve fund and on the recovery of sums paid out of the fund. In accordance with paragraph 1 of that section, the users of the hunting area or their organisations shall constitute a reserve fund for compensating the landowner for claims arising from damage caused by game, the funds of which shall be the payments, subsidies and other income collected from members. In order to compensate for havoc losses, landowners must inform the hunter of the likely places of game damage before the start of the vegetation period. In this context, hunters can not only control game at potential damage sites but also plan the scope of possible damages claims and collect funds from the reserve fund. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of this section, the State shall support the partial coverage of claims paid from the Reserve Fund through the Environmental Investment Centre, which shall be a minimum of 10% and a maximum of 30% of the annual payments made to the Reserve Fund and shall not exceed the annual amount of the hunting right fee for the year preceding the year of application. As a result, the amount of the State contribution cannot be higher than the amount of the right to hunt paid by hunters to the state budget. In accordance with subsection 3 of this section, the Environmental Investment Centre primarily supports the partial coverage of the requirements described in § 42 of the draft text (§ 44 of the second reading). Amendment 31 amends § 43 of the draft so that paragraph 1 is supplemented by points 3 and 4 and a new paragraph 2 is added. These changes are due to the fact that most of Estonia's hunting grounds have been issued to hunting areas, but there are areas of strict protection where people are banned and therefore there is no possibility of hunting. Wild game concentrated in such areas may cause game damage in adjacent areas. According to the amendment, the State partially reimburses the claims of potential landowners if the damage has occurred within a radius of one kilometre from the border with such areas (as set out in Paragraph 46 (1) (3)). As, in general, very strictly protected areas are surrounded by restricted zones where there is no active agricultural activity, it is unlikely that claims will be made to the State. The same regulation extends to hunting grounds that have for some reason not been issued to hunting areas or to areas within a radius of one kilometre from the unjoined border of hunting grounds. Amendment 35 amends § 64 (in the second reading § 68) 4 of the draft, which supplements the Environmental Charges Act with § 121 on the right to hunt. The proposed amendments raise the ceiling of hunting rights fees to EUR 25 per year. This amendment follows from Amendment 30, which introduces a provision for setting up a reserve fund in the draft. The initially planned rate of the right to hunt is not enough to cover this. The amendment has been finalised by the Committee on the Environment. Amendment 37. The amendments made to § 68 of the draft law (Article 72 of the second reading text) relate to the new deadline for enforcement of the draft law, i.e. s. a June 1st. This amendment has been finalised by the Committee on the Environment on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of the Environment. Technical and linguistic changes have been made to the draft, which in no case alter the content of the draft. Next, I will also give you a list of amendments which, in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, are not to be voted in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu: Amendments 8, 12, 18, 21, 24, 28 and 34. All these amendments have also been rejected by the Committee on the Environment at its meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U93	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U94	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Since the time was really short, we will try to come to the aid of questions and to bring a little more clarity to the hunting law. According to the Hunting Act, hunters must compensate the landowner for the damage caused by the game. Do you think such regulation is constitutional? Take, for example, the moose. The moose causes damage for 12 months a year, but the moose can only hunt for three months a year. Wild friends also know the fact that the moose is a relatively large traveler, that in summer it lives in one place, in another place during winter. Hunting societies have to pay for the damage, even if they have the capacity to hunt.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U95	Thank you. Indeed, this is an issue which also attracted a great deal of attention in the Commission and which has been discussed a lot. However, I would point out that the creation of this law, not of the old amendment, but of the new Hunting Act, was due to the fact that the Chancellor of Justice pointed out a number of factors that are not in accordance with the Constitution in the hunting or hunting arrangements of Estonia. The same right of landowners to participate in hunting is, after all, virtually impossible under the current Hunting Act. The main right currently enjoyed by a private owner living in a hunting area is to bear 100% of the damage caused by wild animals on the land he owns. Another right he has is the right to prohibit hunting on his land, and it has been used by landowners. That is what I personally consider to be a bad practice and not a very good solution, because these damage is still occurring there. I think that the partial compensation that landowners can require of a hunter in the absence of a contract between the hunter and the landlord is the compromise reached during the drafting of the draft which started in 2008. In the Committee on the Environment, however, we have come up with an even better solution, according to which 30% of the losses incurred will be borne by the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U96	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U97	Thank you. Good colleague! The first hunters' organisations were established in Estonia 145 years ago and during these years there has been no hunter on the list of hunting equipment. With this law, we let the genie out of the bottle and allow the hunter to be used. In committee, you voted in favour, and I voted against. Could you comment on your position or your opinion as to why we are now giving a green light to the yachtbu in 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U98	Representatives of the archery club Mountains also attended the extraordinary meeting of the Environment Committee in February, and then we decided that if there is a broad consensus among the members of the Riigikogu, we will discuss whether the Estonian hunting team is prepared to add the bow to the list of hunting tools. As a result of the discussions, it became clear that if all the rules and the law were to be complied with and the law was to be written rather harshly on this issue, then it is also possible to hunt safely with a bow. Archery is exactly the same hunting as hunting with a traditional hunting weapon today. All the requirements imposed on a hunter who hunts with a hunting weapon apply to a hunter who hunts with a bow. He's got to have a test report, and he's gonna have to take a young hunter class. Consequently, I think there was no reason to oppose the archery. All the more so as, for example, in Finland and Latvia, and in many other countries of the European Union, bow hunting is permitted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U99	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U100	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. The rapporteur from the Commission. My question concerns the hunting certificate. I quote from Paragraph 36 (6) in order to better understand what the question is: 'On the basis of a valid hunting certificate issued in a foreign country, the person who receives it shall be granted a hunting certificate of validity of up to one year within 10 days of the application being submitted to the person who receives it without passing the hunting training and passing the hunting theoretical examination... ' There are some Member States of the European Union, such as England, where the law does not provide for the requirement of a hunting certificate. Will the hunters of England, when they come to Estonia for hunting, also have to pass the hunter's test and pass everything they have to do in order to gain this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U101	In order for hunters from abroad to be able to hunt in Estonia, they must have carried out a large game test and accompanied by a valid big game test certificate. This requirement applies to Estonian hunters and the Committee on the Environment did not support the proposal to grant exemptions to those hunters who come from outside, either from another European Union country or elsewhere. We did not support this because it would be discrimination against our own Estonian hunters. The shooting attempt can also be carried out by a foreign national who is to be hunted here, and the hunt can be organised accordingly. In particular, it is still a tourist hunt. I don't think anyone's gonna think overnight that you'll see that I'm coming hunting in Estonia now. It needs to be planned a little more, and to be planned for the launch test if there is no valid test report. If we do not have the opportunity to carry out the shooting test in Estonia, I believe that the Environmental Investment Centre of the Foundation is certainly prepared to consider financing the creation of these opportunities. As we know, there are few shooting ranges in which shooting attempts can be made all year round. Perhaps they simply need to be added to the Tallinn region and a reasoned request must be submitted to the KIK, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U102	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This draft Hunting Act has been pending in Parliament for several months. We know that in the ministry it was in the process for five or even six years. Many do not know why it has been dealt with so long and thoroughly. In fact, IRL wanted a 'patriotic solution', but the Reform Party wanted a'reform', a 'business-as-usual solution'. Now you've got a business solution. Tell me, how did it work, did you use your mind or your power? I think you used force. Am I right?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U104	Thank you. This issue has nothing to do with the debate that took place in the Committee on the Environment. However, I would point out that this bill has indeed been prepared since 2008. It has been prepared by two environmental ministers: one of them, Jaanus Tamkivi, is sitting in this hall today, and Keit Pentus-Rosimannus has continued this difficult work. I do appreciate this process by seeking a compromise, and as a result of years of work, a compromise was reached. I think that this bill has not been in the process in the Riigikogu for too long. In January we took the draft to first reading, today, April it will be at second reading, and hopefully we will adopt it tomorrow at third reading. It's not like you're using some kind of force. I think this is still the result of a broad-based compromise.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U105	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! How does such a law allow new applicants who fulfil the conditions and requirements laid down in § 14 to apply for permission to use a hunting area?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U107	According to this draft law, existing rights of use for hunting areas are extended for 10 years in all hunting areas. There are 384 of them in Estonia. The country has a certain number of hunters which have not yet been issued for hunting and which actually expect this draft to become a law, so that they can be issued on the basis of a new law. That's one way. Another option is that if any user in the hunting area fails to carry out his tasks and landowners have decided to replace the user in the hunting area, which I personally consider improbable, then new users will be able to form their own hunting area. There are other ways. It is possible to make the current hunting areas, which are sometimes quite large, smaller. This is done on a proposal from landowners and the decision must also be supported by the Hunting Council. The fourth option is to wait ten years and take part in a competition in which some regions decide to award to new tenants. Rather, the most important problem in my opinion is that we are training hundreds of new hunters a year who are often not expected to be in existing hunting societies. It is estimated that there are 3,000 hunters who do not belong to any hunting company, and that is, in my opinion, a major problem. In essence, these men currently do not have the opportunity to hunt for large game in Estonia. And in case they don't have land, they can't hunt small game.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U108	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'll start with simple questions. As we know, Estonia has committed itself to the European Union to ensuring the population of about 200 wolves, 600 lynxes and bears. Whether we want or not, landowners want or don't, these animals tend to eat. They eat mainly cloven-hoofed animals, not by one or two, but by tens of thousands. And now, in the light of the law that you passed, it turns out that game predators' bait is essentially paid by hunters. At the same time, we are happy to compensate from the state budget for the damage caused by the large predators and birds. Why should the same compensation not be applied to cloven-hoofed animals?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U110	This bill and the philosophy that passes through it are built on the fact that the user and landlord of the hunting area agree on the rules of hunting on the land of the landowner. If a contract is concluded, the contract does not necessarily have to provide for compensation for damages, but rather the landowner is still interested in preventing these losses. If we look at the mechanism that is in this bill, it is a partial compensation for damage. As a large land owner and probably also a forest owner, the honourable questioner probably knows how much it costs to renew one crop or forest crop per hectare. However, this Act provides an opportunity to pay compensation of only EUR 100 per hectare. But I would point out that this is still an exceptional case in which no agreement has been reached between the landlord and the user of the hunting area. I would add that, after all, the State, through the Environmental Investment Centre, will help to compensate for losses incurred in exceptional circumstances if the hunting organisation makes a request to the KIC through its set-up reserve fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U111	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U112	Thank you. Good friends, first the opinion, then the question. On a hard farm, a forest pig takes at least half a ton of potatoes from the field each year, which is already the 100 euros. So I am really sorry about the hunters in the Rõuge area, who, for example, in order to compensate only for the damage to my farm, would have to pay their own EUR 10,000 a year. That is why it is justified to believe that the state, by contributing to the reserve fund of only 10 to 30%, has taken a bit of a stand-off and should contribute more. But my particular question is how to ease the cost of the hunters a little bit. Is there a kilometer of the state border where the state compensates for the damage? Large herds are coming across the Latvian border, which is quite a problem for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U113	Personally, as a leading judge, I think that the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of our Riigikogu would have referred to such a contradiction if it had actually existed. It seems to me, rather, that there is a certain violation of the principle of equal treatment when we allow foreign citizens to hunt without a shooting attempt and without a certificate, but we demand it from our hunters. If there really is such a barrage and this House of the Riigikogu has not been able to detect it, I consider it very small because I value the competence of the Legal and Analytical Department of our House very high, perhaps the Office of the President of the Republic will pay attention to it. I think that, rather than requiring a shooting test to be carried out and a certificate to that effect from foreign citizens, we should not require this testimony from the hunters of the Estonian state either.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U114	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In paragraph 20, the terms of the withdrawal of the right to use the hunting area have been amended in accordance with the proposal. Point 2 of paragraph 2 states that the authorisation shall be withdrawn if the application is submitted by landowners holding at least 51% of the properties of the hunting grounds and at least 51% of the area of the hunting grounds. In itself, the change makes sense, except that the fact that 51% of the area was still retained means essentially that RMK can decide who hunts and how to hunt, whether the hunter is replaced or not. The impact of RMK actually increased by 51%. Is it intentional, which is the aim that RMK will be given such a large role?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U116	Thank you. Honourable questioner! I do not understand in any way the fear that RMK would now somehow direct the course of hunting in the hunting grounds that are currently in the hands of other hunting organisations, not RMK, so that RMK would organise something there. I really don't get it. But your question was very good. Partly because of the same fear that RMK or some of the great landowners, who own two thirds of the area of the hunting grounds, could essentially decide alone who is hunting on their land, and because of the amendment and attention given by Riigikogu member Rait Marust, we decided to bring in 51% of the property claim to replace the tenant of the hunting grounds. The editing of RMK, as you described here, is completely excluded by this amendment. If some major landowners wish to divide their land into small properties and thereby acquire a specific hunting area, then such a solution is indeed possible, although the probability of this wish I consider to be extremely small, rather unlikely, but in this case it must also have a total of 51% of the area of the hunting grounds. Rather, this amendment made it much more difficult to replace a hunter compared to the original content and idea of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U117	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You mentioned in your report that the Committee on the Environment amended the compensation for game damage in respect of crops with Amendment 29. Two fundamental changes have been made: first, the list of crops to be reimbursed has been significantly extended, and second, the right to claim compensation is granted not only to the landowner but also to the owner of the crops if they are different. In the interests of the verbatim report, can you specifically state what are the crops in which the Committee on the Environment considers that the damage must be compensated?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U119	Thank you. The original text of the bill contained crops for which damage to the hunter should have been compensated, cereals, legumes, buffalo crops, oil and fibre crops, vegetables, herbs and herbs. Following a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture, it was decided to add more cultures. Ultimately, this list will include legumes, technical crops, outdoor vegetables and berries, flowers and ornamental plants, green fodder plants, other crops and fallow land, as well as permanent grassland, fruit plantations and nurseries. The Ministry of Agriculture also proposed to establish the relevant draft crop list in the implementing act to be established pursuant to § 43 (3). Indeed, this list was significantly strengthened for the user of the hunting area and improved for the landowner. Crop growers, for example, are in a much better position than forest farmers. In the case of forest crops, we only talk about conifers, we talk about trees, we talk about trees, we talk about trees, we talk about pine, we talk about spruces, we talk about howl and weemouth. In fact, it is the damage in the field that is probably the cause of much more headaches for landowners, and it is known that the damage in the field is largely caused by the said log of our colleague Kalvi Tõutsi. The second point you mentioned is that in the future the owner of the crop will also be able to submit to the user of the hunting area both a loss prevention notice and a claim for damages. I personally consider this change to be extremely logical. The proposal was submitted by the representatives of the landowners. After all, a very large number of farmers use the land to rent, and why should the owner of the land submit an application for compensation for the damage for the owner of a particular crop? After all, the damage is caused to the crop, not to the particular land. In this sense, the proposal makes perfect sense and I am pleased that it has been incorporated into the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U120	Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U121	Thank you. The Environmental Inspectorate did not give any specific position on the authorisation of the archery. And it's not like somebody walks in the woods with a bow and says they're gonna shoot a badge. Then a walker with a gun in the woods could say the same thing, he's just gonna shoot a badge. In fact, the bill before us describes very precisely what is considered to be hunting, both in the case of firearms and in the case of bows. If a person is accompanied in the forest by a bow corresponding to the characteristics of a hunter as defined by law, but does not carry a valid hunter's certificate or a bow-hunting test certificate, it is entitled to impose sanctions in accordance with the provisions of this Act. It's as simple as that. Walk in the woods with a bow and say I'm gonna shoot a badge, it's not possible. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that I think poaching is an extremely serious problem, even now. This certainly needs to be addressed, either by increasing the ability of the Environmental Inspectorate to supervise or by improving the information between hunters. If part of the hunters are poaching, it will cast a shadow on all hunters throughout Estonia. Personally, as a future young hunter, it would not be a pleasure for me to be in the company of some of whom are consciously poaching. Indeed, it is deplorable! However, it is already being done, and I personally do not believe that poaching with a bow would increase poaching. I also point out that only small wild game can be hunted by a bow.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U122	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U123	Thank you. First of all, our biggest landowner, RMK, plays a crucial role in shaping the price of hunting lands. Let's just say that at the last auction, the average rental price was EUR 2 per hectare. Do you think that Helenius, who has 1,000 hectares of land in Kaiu parish, will not ask for two euros per hectare if he starts signing a contract with me? Do you think he's an idiot or who do you think he is? In any case, he asks for two, maybe three euros. To claim RMK doesn't create a trend here, you can't. Or how was it meant for you?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U124	This is absolutely not about the debate in the committee, but if there are concrete proposals on how RMK should better organise hunting in its hunting grounds, then as a member of your Riigikogu, you could freely present them. However, I admit that such an approach can indeed give some kind of identity. As far as I know, RMK still issues the hunters with one-year leases. This is a somewhat different approach if there are other hunters where the contract is made for 10 years. However, just as all users in the hunting area are subject to the same monitoring, hunting capacity and overall hunting organisation requirements for RMK. If they do something wrong, they must be subject to sanctions in exactly the same way as any other hunter in the area. However, the fact that they are doing something wrong is arbitrary in assessing the hall of this Riigikogu in one way or the other. In this respect, impacts should still be analysed more specifically if they are both positive and negative.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U125	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U126	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, This bill clearly bears signs of sloppyness from haste. The main hunting season in Estonia is still in autumn and winter. Now, if I'm not mistaken, I'm not a hunter, then in the summer, I think we're only allowed to hunt wild boars and socks, and at this point the hunter has nothing to do with the gun in the woods. The desire of the Commission to adopt this law as soon as possible has all the more impressed the hunting circles. What were the Commission's arguments for such a rush?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U127	Your argument, Mr. Peter Võsa, is rushed. The Commission was working on its usual rhythm, it can be said that the initial thought was even a little slower, but in greater depth. We followed the proposals that had been received by the Committee on the Environment and the speed of their proceedings, and we had no reason simply to expect any other time. The procedure for the draft law in the Committee on the Environment has been thorough and has now been completed. But one important fact is that hunters will have to pay the right to hunt to the state budget by 25 April. By that time, the bill did not enter into force as a law. Those in the hunting area are billed by two months and we wanted users in the hunting area to know in advance how much hunting costs them as a reward for their hunting rights. That is why it was not pushed into the autumn of the bill, which is a small reason. The focus is on the argument that I gave you at the beginning of my answer, i.e. there were no questions that would have been left unsolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U128	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U129	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, After all, RMK organises auctions for unhosted property and therefore earns money from the sale of the property. For what purposes is the money from the sale of hunting rights used in auctions, and why does RMK have the right to sell hunting rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U130	The right to hunt on the lands of RMK is the right of the land owner. Everything else you asked for should be asked by one of the members of the Supervisory Board of RMK or, in the course of an inquiry, by the Minister for the Environment. Indeed, the procedure of this draft law in the Commission does not affect in any way how much RMK collects money and what it uses it for. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U131	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U132	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The Commission did not support my amendment whereby hunting arrangements in the small islands with permanent settlement should be coordinated with the council of the island municipality or with the general assembly of the small islands. How, then, should the small island community, or at least the island guard, who has been appointed by the state, be informed that tomorrow, for example, 15 Italian hunters will come to bird hunting and the small island will be figuratively turned into a shooting range for two days?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question comes about the hunting council, § 9. The Hunting Council has been given competence to agree on the volume and structure of hunting. A little of this relates to the question of Mr Eagle, who asked that if there is no man in the hunting council from a small island, how will the hunting capacity be agreed? It is likely that someone will have to be given a warrant, and I think the agreement can only be annulled in court. What happens if someone who is not represented in the Council is not satisfied with the agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U134	The Act stipulates that the Hunting Council shall be composed of representatives of the Environmental Board as a representative of the State and representatives of landowners and hunters. The number of landowners and the number of hunters belonging to it has not been regulated in any way. I cannot quite imagine a situation in which a representative of a small island wishes to be a member of the hunting council and participate in its work, but it is not allowed to do so. I don't think there's ever gonna be a situation like this in practical life.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U135	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U136	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! A little while ago, you announced what consensus exists between stakeholders on this draft law. However, the management board of the Estonian Hunters Society has stated in its address that they do not support the wording of the draft sent to second reading. Not only do they think that such wording and regulation pose a serious threat to the sustainable development of our national hunting. How do you comment as a waitress?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U137	I would comment on it the way I replied to Rein Randver. In our committee, and already in the drafting phase of this draft, maximum effort has been made to take account of the proposals made by all parties involved. In my opinion, this is indeed a compromise between them. The effects to which the management of the Hunters' Association refers can be assessed, evaluated, and all these effects considered. As I said before, the preparation of the draft law started already in 2008. The Minister of the Environment has called this law a master of inclusion. Let us take, for example, the debate in the Committee on the Environment. Nine sessions, one of which was extraordinary, were also invited by all the relevant organisations, and I dare say that most of the proposals were taken into account, if not entirely, in part. In fact, both the Ministry as the preparatory body of the draft and the Commission as the person dealing with the draft in the Riigikogu have tried to take maximum account of all the parties involved and the amendments to this effect, if deemed necessary, have been included in the draft as amendments. However, I would like to get rid of one point that has been referred to in the same address that you mentioned. It has been pointed out that we do not have implementing acts and that there are no parties involved in the drafting of implementing acts. Of the eight legislative acts accompanying the new Hunting Act, only two are new. The first of these is the amount of the right to hunt, the procedure for checking its payment and payment. It lays down the annual fee for the hunter. And since this is the money from the KIK hunting programme that will be returned to hunting, the amount of this fee will be agreed with the Estonian Hunters' Association. This is, according to my memory, Amendment 35, which increased the ceiling for the right to hunt by EUR 5. The second implementing act, which is new, is the basis and methodology for the assessment of damage caused to crops and conifers growing on forest land, the requirements for the assessment report, the specified scope of compensation and the compensation arrangements and the list of conifers to be compensated. This regulation has been dealt with by the Ministry of the Environment in parallel with the draft Hunting Act. The draft regulation has been prepared on the basis of proposals from the Estonian Hunters' Association and the Estonian Landowners' Association, an important input has also come from the Ministry of Agriculture. No fundamental changes to the hunting rules will be introduced. So, in fact, there are implementing acts and the parties have been informed of them. So this argument is not quite correct, and that is why the bill does not have to interrupt the second reading, just as the Hunters' Association wanted it to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U138	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U139	Good manager! Good Kalle, do you think which party, landowners or hunters, is more satisfied with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U140	I think, and that is purely my personal opinion, because it does not concern the Commission's debate, that there are dissatisfactions on both sides, and that there are also satisfactions on both sides. The compromise itself means that a golden middleway was found. There are certainly those on the other side who did not achieve the maximum and are not quite satisfied. However, looking back at the discussions and recalling what this bill was like when it arrived in Parliament, I do think that good work has been done in these four months and that the draft law has become significantly better. I personally thank the Members of the Commission, first of all, for their active participation in this work and, of course, all the authors of the amendments whose good proposals we have been able to take into account when processing this draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U141	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Lembit Kaljuvee, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U142	Yes, you have indeed tabled an amendment which also raised this problem. The Commission discussed this amendment and, together with the Ministry of the Environment, considered that the amendment was not justified, because there is neither a logic error nor any understanding. In fact, it is possible to organise hunting exactly as provided for in § 25 and § 23. Your wording 'to transfer to a property that does not have a contract with a hunter' is somewhat arbitrary. Why would someone else's property have to have some kind of hunting product? If it's transferred to a property that doesn't have a contract, it's the land of a person who's a part of a particular yacht. I can't quite imagine how this could happen in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U143	Thank you. Good waitress! A lot has been said about the archery that it increases poaching because the bow doesn't make a bang and it's hard to control. At the same time, any person can easily go into the woods and say that he simply shoots a sign there and that's it. What is the position of the Environmental Inspectorate on authorising the archery?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U144	The answer is no. The areas within a km radius in which the State compensates for the damage suffered are protected protected areas and the surrounding areas, which are hunting grounds, but have not been issued by the State for hunting purposes. However, as I mentioned earlier, these latter countries are just waiting for the adoption of the new Hunting Act. But my opinion on your opinion is that these same potato-eating losses of loggers can, as we know, be significantly reduced if they are being prevented. That's what professional hunters have told me. I'm not trying to claim from this chair that all damage can always be prevented. But I believe that if there is mutual understanding between the hunter, the hunting organisation and the landowner, if cooperation between the landowner and the user of the hunting area goes otherwise, and the hunter really tries to delve into the content of the matter and to prevent damage to the maximum extent, then in certain exceptional cases, if these losses really occur, the landowner is prepared to bear the costs himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U145	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U146	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Paragraph 25 (2) of the draft law states that without a contract, hunting may be carried out on immovable property from sunrise to sunset but not less than 200 metres from the building. At the same time, § 23 (2) of the draft decree states that hunting is also treated as a product of hunting in nature. In the light of these two provisions, how can hunting crops be brought to a household in white time for which no hunting contract has been concluded for the property? Is there a slight error of logic here, or is this an informed choice of the initiator of the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U147	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! As is known, the owner of the land or his authorised person must submit to the user of the hunting area a notice for the prevention of game damage, which should fix all the property that may be affected. Who will monitor compliance with this requirement and what legal situation will arise if the notification has not been submitted in the planned amount or within the time limit? Who's really gonna control it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U148	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U149	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for a good overview of the Commission's debate. But I also have a question. In the last session, we proposed that one of the founders of the reserve fund should be a state, not just hunters. Since he is already participating with his own resources, it would be both practical and right. This was not acceptable to the coalition's representatives, but there was no argument as to why. What are these arguments and why can the State not participate in the establishment of the Fund if it already puts its funds there?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U150	Yes, indeed, you answered half the question yourself. The State is currently involved in covering losses, both for large predators and for losses caused by birds, and in the future the Environmental Investment Centre will contribute 30% to covering losses. The reason why the Commission did not support a 'limited responsibility' or a solidarity-based model where all hunters would pay a centrally set-up fund was that not everyone in 324 hunting areas needs such a fund. This was the argument of both the Ministry of the Environment and many members of the Committee on the Environment. Many of the yacht areas, I firmly dare say that there are more than half of them, but in my personal opinion, there are even more of them, both in terms of compensating for damage and in terms of preventing them, can do perfectly. Some of them have already set up a reserve fund, which we are legitimizing with this bill. There is no practical need for such a solidarity fund. I admit that there are different concepts of how damage can or should be compensated, but this understanding, contained in the draft law, is one of those that found the greatest support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U151	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U152	It's an agreement between the parties. The law sets the frame. If the loss prevention notice is submitted by 2 May, it will be an agreement between the two parties. If the user of the hunting area accepts the notification, it shall be accompanied by a contract to that effect. If it does not accept this, the landowner's own concern is that he did not submit this loss prevention notice by 1 May. There is still an agreement between the parties here, and if there are disputes, the parties will, of course, be able to appeal to the courts to defend their rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U153	Tõnu Juul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U154	Honourable Vice President! Dear waitress, I have the impression, in § 42 (4) concerning the attempt on the part of foreign citizens, that with this requirement we are seriously violating the principle of equal treatment in the European Union, because in many countries the attempt on shooting does not exist in this form and those men who have hunting rights papers can go into the forest on their own land with the right. Did the Commission discuss that perhaps drivers in southern areas, such as Italians, should first be required to pass a slippery exam in the Republic of Estonia and only then should they be able to drive in Estonia? This observation is also addressed to our board, because it is still a fierce contradiction. What does the waitress think about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U155	This question is absolutely not about the debate in the Commission, but I will respond very briefly: the argument that it is a law that has been put on commercial grounds is completely arbitrary and no one has done any calculations because there is no need for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U156	Thank you. I see this place is a hunting council. In the case of a county with small islands, a representative of a small island should also be involved in the work of the hunting council, or the movement of information should be clearer. I don't know if in everyday life such problems are very common, that some hunters come from somewhere that nobody knows anything about. I admit that if such situations occur in real life, information should be better. The best way to do this is if an island representative can participate and participate in the hunting council. And, as I said before, the movement of information should be better if it is not good enough now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U157	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your courage. The draft has changed quite a bit since its original version, and new principles have been introduced. How exactly do you feel now that this bill, when it is adopted, will function as a law? What are the social impacts of the community? Landowners and hunters are known to live in the community and communicate, socialize. Secondly, what are the economic effects of this law? And thirdly, what's the administrative capacity you're assessing it for now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U159	Thank you for your question. I have repeatedly said from this chair that this bill was prepared as a result of a compromise between both the owners' representatives and the hunters' association representing the hunters. All the aspects you refer to in your question were also discussed during the drafting of this draft and the procedure with extreme thoroughness. No one has the goal of turning Estonian hunting upside down. As I said here before, they will preserve the 324 hunting grounds in the form they are. Regional hunting councils will be established to better exchange information and enhance cooperation. While the rights of use of the hunting area will be limited to a fixed period, all 324 hunting areas will have a ten-year term of access following the entry into force of the law. In addition to the surface area requirement, the number of properties that Neeme Suur asked about has also been introduced. After all, all these are changes that favour the continuation of the current hunting arrangements, but the philosophy that already operates in many hunting areas is that the owner of private property has the right to participate in the organisation of his hunting on the ground. When these negotiations take place and agreements take place, I see no reason why there should be some social impact. Indeed, I myself come from a very small place, born there, and spend all my time out of work there. I know those weekend days when hunters gather to go hunting together. I know these people and, in part, their economic situation. However, the landowner has the right to know what is going on on his land and to expect a partnership from the user of the hunting area, I think that would be the right word. In Raplamaa, where Tiidu and I both come from, there is a good potato grower whose land extends to the areas of three hunting societies. With two of them, he's really good at getting along, and with the other one, there's no getting along. I assume that in the light of the new draft law, everything will continue exactly as it has been so far. So cooperation works. But hunters estimate that less than 10% of these 324 hunting grounds really are such somewhat problematic areas. It is certainly not the hunters who are the only cause of the problems there, far from what I want to say, it is the regions where the agreement is somewhat complicated. If we look at the entry into force of the law in this light, the circumstances are not as bad as we have been tried to claim and impress here in the course of the legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U160	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U161	Thank you, Mr President. We go to § 24 (4), or prohibited hunting equipment and methods. Point 4 of paragraph 4 states that hunting is prohibited by the pursuit of game by motor vehicles, motor vehicles and off-road vehicles. The vehicles are divided into motor vehicles and off-road vehicles. It turns out that we also have vehicles, which are off-road vehicles, but are not motor vehicles. It is likely to be a off-road bicycle, which should not be chased by game. But I don't see any reference to a horse. Does this mean that the rider hunt is allowed in Estonia? Archery hunt we brought in. Since we don't pay attention to chasing game with horse and shooting game from horse, are we allowed not only to hunt the archery but also to ride a horse? Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U162	That is indeed a very good question, which does not concern the Commission's debate. Let me be clear: did you ask about § 24 or § 25? For paragraph 24. I've figured out that if there's no engine, you're allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U163	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U164	Thank you. My question concerns those foreign hunters and hunters who come to the Estonian forests to hunt, whether on horse or without, that is not important in this case. If we compare our hunting law with the hunting laws of other countries of the European Union, what position do you think we are in? We'll take the same for many of us who liked hunting with a bow. If the archer comes here from the woods of Sherwood, does he know everything, and does his country's hunting law contain the same provisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U165	As far as I am concerned about hunting and such outside this bill and trying to understand, hunting and hunting are regulated by unwritten hunting ethics all over the world. That's one. I think that we have a very good hunting in Estonia, and therefore the draft law we are discussing is intended to preserve as much as possible the so-called traditional hunting, as I have long answered Rein Randver's question. Thus, the changes that could result from the adoption of this bill are not so much. As far as archery is concerned, I think that allowing archery in Estonia will make hunting more diverse. Some small birds, such as a cobra, are certainly much easier to catch with a bow. You can also attach a rope to the bow arrow, and once you hit the cobra, you can use the rope to pull the beaver out of the water. I think we're good with hunting in Estonia. This is also borne out by the fact that Estonia is also visited and hunted here by some 3,000 hunters from outside the year. We have rare species, the same great predators that we have undertaken under the Treaty of Accession to the European Union to drive wolves, bears, lynxes in Estonia. With regard to the final part of your question, whether there are similar rules elsewhere, I think that certain similarities and cross-cutting features can be found in the hunting laws of all countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U166	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U167	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Commission waitress! My question concerns compensation by the State for damage caused by game. Paragraph 46 states that in certain cases the Environmental Board partially compensates for the damage, for example in the territory of a protected natural object, in the area where the Environmental Board has prohibited hunting, in the territory within a radius of one kilometre from the border of the area where such hunting is prohibited, or in an area not included in the hunting grounds. Plus compensation for damage caused by big predators, goose and goose under the Nature Conservation Act. All in all, we're dealing with tens of thousands of hectares. Has the Ministry of the Environment also made calculations or has there been an idea of the burden on the state budget if these territories are to start compensating for losses through the Environmental Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U168	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U169	Thank you. This specific amount, which should be borne by the State in the future, did not come to the Commission's discussion because, according to that section, only, firstly, the damage caused by the hunting grounds within a radius of one kilometre of the area's boundary and, secondly, the damage caused by the hunting area in the unjoined hunting area or in an area within a radius of one kilometre of the hunting area's unjoined border. All the other cases you listed are already set out in the current Hunting Act, and I can check these figures for you, even as soon as I leave this remote control. However, I would like to stress once again that this particular issue does not concern the debate that was in the Commission, nor does it concern this draft act, because these compensation rates and procedures have already been established in the past. When we talk about unjoined hunting grounds, as I said before, these land are intended to be issued as soon as possible to new users of the hunting area, these land are waiting for this law to enter into force. When it comes to areas within a one-kilometer radius of the border of an area where hunting is prohibited under the Nature Conservation Act or the Protection Code, the information provided by the Ministry of the Environment indicates that these are areas where economic activity is somewhat smaller than in other areas. These losses are considered unlikely to occur, but a specific amount we will know if this law has worked for one year in real life.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U170	Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U171	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! On the basis of this draft law, the State will cover losses in areas within a radius of one kilometre from the border of the area where hunting is prohibited under the Nature Conservation Act or the Protection Code. My question: why a mile away, was there any other options discussed in the Commission? People with knowledge of animal biology claim that the smallest movement of the areal, 1.5 kilometers, is on the goat, but on the large game, pigs, the elk, it extends ten times further. Why one kilometer?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U172	This is a proposal that has also been agreed with animal biologists and the Ministry of the Environment. Some schools of animal biologists estimate that 400 meters would actually be enough. I think one kilometer, which also became the law, is the middle course. As I said in doing this review, this amendment has been formulated on the basis of an amendment proposed by the Ministry of the Environment and they probably had an in-depth analysis of this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U173	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question is based on the assumption that not all landowners have followed the process of handling the draft Hunting Act in such depth and depth. Can you briefly summarise what will change for landowners if this hunting law is passed? Maybe you'll say more important principles.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U175	Thank you. I don't think I can sum it up with two sentences. In my review, I mentioned that the main difference between the law in force and the bill before us is that the landowner will have a greater right to participate in the hunting that takes place in his country. This is one fundamental starting point that passes through the entire bill. As I said before, under the law in force, the landowner, unless he can agree with the user of the hunting area, has very narrow possibilities to either replace or claim damages from the user of the hunting area, they are essentially non-existent. As I also said before, his only right is to cover 100% of the damage he has suffered on the ground. Before my colleague, Tiit Tammsaare, I saw a head shake on this claim. Perhaps I was a little inaccurate before, of course this right will only apply if there is no agreement between the user of the hunting area and the landlord. As Tiit himself knows as a passionate hunter, 90% of Estonia's hunting areas have the possibility to enter into agreements and these agreements have been concluded. In general, getting along between landowners and hunters in Estonia is very friendly. I think the main thing is what I have already told you: the owner will be subject to the owner's rights, which have long been valid in other areas in the Estonian country. I would like to point out here that, when preparing this draft law, maximum effort has been made to take account of the proposals made by both hunters and landowners. This whole bill is, in fact, a compromise between the two parties. In this sense, there are no major changes for the users of the hunting area that continue to hunt in all existing hunting areas, just on some other grounds. No one will be deprived of their right to hunt if this law enters into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U176	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Hunting permits and hunting rights will not be taken away from anyone when the new hunting law comes into force, but the hunt will become expensive and many people with smaller and medium wallets will no longer be able to hunt in Estonia in the future. Have you calculated how much hunting turnover will increase in Estonia next year? What will it be like when this law enters into force in Estonia, how much money will come into the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U178	The country has committed itself to Europe for large predators, who feed on wild cloven-hoofed animals, who harm forest and crops. We have protected territories where game lives and where hunting is partly prohibited or restricted. The wildebeest move out into the surrounding territory and do damage. The participation of the State shall ensure procedures and stability for the compensation of game damage and shall avoid any possible inconsistencies between owners and users of hunting areas. I would like to thank the members of the Committee on the Environment, who were in agreement to discuss the draft amendment to the Hunting Act, initiated by five members of the Riigikogu 328, which aimed at preventing confusion in hunting. The result: the first reading was completed, the Commission's forces were slowed down and the draft went to the shelf. However, the reality is that several hunting societies have already lodged a complaint with the court and an initial application for legal protection. So the mess continues. In processing this bill, I have had the feeling that we are processing it quickly, even very quickly. On the one hand, I understand that the tasks set out in the current law have been completed for ten years, the deadlines have passed. Officials wrote to the Commission that the deadlines for the validity of the rights of use for the hunting area are approaching and it is essential that the draft Hunting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic be dealt with quickly. However, there is no match between quick processing and good practice in dealing with drafts. Unfortunately, we have two readings of the bill scheduled for one week. As we have said, there are, in principle, new regulations in the draft, so more time should be allowed for discussions and amendments. Between publication and entry into force, there should be a sufficient period of time. At the moment, the draft states that the law will enter into force on 1 June. I recall that it took 11 months for the current Hunting Act to be passed, and the draft we are debating today is intended to be legalised in one month. I ask emotionally this question: are we now ten times more administratively able in Estonia? The draft has not reached compromises that satisfy all parties and opinions, including in the Commission, that we will adopt the draft as a law and then we will begin to make corrections immediately. Do we really have to do this? Ladies and gentlemen, this year is the year of a peaceful hunting culture in hunting. I wish everyone this was a success! The Social Democratic Party Group proposes to suspend the second reading of Bill 351. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U179	Eldar Efendiev, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U180	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Am I generally pleased to participate in the second reading of the draft Hunting Act in this Chamber today? On the one hand, it can be said that the proposals made by the Centre Party Group raised a number of issues. I'm taking advantage of the opportunity right now, and I'm going to go over it. For example, we proposed to clarify the provisions of the draft law on the participation of the tenant and his powers. As you will remember, at first reading, the initiators rejected it, but during the proceedings, the position changed and now this issue has been resolved in general. We also proposed to set up a fund to compensate for the damage caused to landowners. At first reading, this proposal did not find the support of the initiators either, but during the proceedings their position changed and they came up with their vision of the creation and existence of a reserve fund. We also proposed that decisions be taken not only by large landowners, but also by small ones. This approach also found its place in the draft, as the initiators again changed their position. I would like to take this opportunity, and in particular to thank my colleague, Mr Marust, for his proposals, which took up a number of high-level areas and contributed to the procedure of the draft law. The draft became better and some of the acute issues were partially resolved. A lot of questions, though. For example, today I also asked the Commission's rapporteur, which is why the state does not want to be the founder of the reserve fund when it is already participating in the activities with own resources. Why the activities of this fund were placed only on the hunters' shoulders could not be convincingly argued. It's not right. Also, is hunting with a bow well regulated and can we be sure that there will be no question about it in the future? I'm not sure about that. Nor has the differences between large and small landowners and between landowners and hunters been finally resolved. However, the previous speakers have already enlightened it from different sides, and I will not repeat it. Finally, I would like to read you a few sentences about the address of Margus Puust, the President of the Estonian Hunters' Association, to the hunters. First quote: 'The decision of the Environment Committee last week to send the draft to second reading already this week has shattered our hopes. " I will continue: " Do we really need to start using extreme means to protect the rights of game and hunters by slogans to Toompea? We also discussed this option at an emergency meeting. The decision was that it was not, and the members of the Bureau expressed their hope that the ambassadors would respond to our Bureau statement to take time off and deal with the necessary seriousness of the draft Hunting Act and to good legislative practice, together with implementing legislation. " After such a statement, can we talk about partnership in this area? I mean, there's no partnership in this bill if you can give examples like this. There are, of course, many other issues which have not been resolved or rejected. We believe that the draft Hunting Act should continue to be dealt with in the future. The Centre Party Group proposes to suspend the second reading of the draft Hunting Act 351. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U181	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U182	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable few interested in hunting law! I would just like to answer some of the raised questions and reduce my fears. One of the main statements that has been made today is that the draft Hunting Act has been dealt with very quickly. This certainly is not right and certainly the procedure has not been superficial. The government sent the draft Hunting Act to the Riigikogu at the beginning of December. It's the end of April. Therefore, there is no reason to claim that the rules of the ordinary procedure have been infringed. Moreover, many criticisms have come from hunters that many things have not been taken into account. But I, as chairman of the commission, have, for example, received 74 support letters from the societies of different countries recommending that hawk hunting be allowed in Estonia as well. If we had taken into account the proposals of all the birds, ornithological society and animal welfare societies, hunting societies would have been much more evil to us. Now a little honey on the pancake. I think it is positive that if the law is passed, the right to use the hunting area will be extended to ten years. I believe this is a very big response to the hunters. Moreover, changing the hunting area is much more difficult than it was initially proposed by the drafter. One of the main issues that has led to intrigue has been the creation of a reserve fund. The IRL was accused in this Chamber, but the compromise that has been reached in the last three months is, in my opinion, a positive one. The issue of the number of areas covered by the Nature Conservation Act in the country where hunting is prohibited gave rise to a great deal of controversy and speculation. There was also a compromise solution: if the damage caused by game occurs in an area within a radius of one kilometre from the border of the area where hunting is prohibited, then the Environmental Board will compensate for it. As strange as it may seem, perhaps one of the greatest changes in the hunting law is the authorisation of the archery. Yeah, there are little fears involved, but those who take the bow and arrows into the woods have to have completed courses of qualification as hunters. All conditions, examinations and archery shooting tests must be met. Tiit Tammsaare's small comment that the new hunting law is certainly not the reason why people leave the country, rather because hunters do not make their wives happy and families are too small. That's why schools have to be shut down. Finally, so much that it is up to the opposition to argue. But I hope that those who squeal with the sound of a boar here will read the law of hunting and see that the fear they sow is not justified. There are certainly legal dissatisfactions with both hunters and land and forest owners, but I am convinced that this is a very good compromise that helps to promote hunting in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U183	Thank you very much, Mr Erki Arrow. Mr Kalev Eagle, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U184	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, we have little, and on the other, enough, to realize that these small islands cannot be put together with all others. In these islands where there is a municipality, it is more than normal for the municipality to know how hunting is organised on their plot of land. In small islands where there is no municipality, the decision to hunt or at least the coordination of hunting plans must be given to the local community. The current Hunting Act does not consider this necessary and regrettably the Coalition does not agree to sign it into the new Law. The arguments against this have been sought, to put it mildly. We have more than ten permanent small islands and it would be naive to expect all their representatives to be represented as landowners in future hunting councils. Thus the situation continues where even an island guard appointed by the state can surprise the ten-to-five-language hunter on his island at a time, who turn the seaside into a shooting range, shooting bullets without counting everything that flies. Since hunting rights are sold at auction, buyers are often foreigners or local'money bag hunters'. As the right to use the yacht area is sold for one year, the winner of the auction has no motivation and no need to keep, develop and maintain the hunting area, and is delivered as one-day masters. Abruka's people still have painful memories of 11 deer coming in a few years ago, being shot and taken off the island in two days. A month ago, news came through the media that RMK Kuressaare's hunting area in the Abruka hunting area was won by an Italian tourist operator in order to preempt hunting permits for 2013 and 2014. He plans to hunt foreign tourists there. Information about similar problems has come from other small islands. The Hunting Act would be one way for the Riigikogu to demonstrate its respectful and caring attitude towards the small islands with permanent settlements, so please support Amendments 1 and 36. These amendments have been formulated by the members of the Estonian Association of Islands and express unambiguously the expectations of the inhabitants of the smaller islands for the Hunting Act. In addition, there are certain logic problems in the draft Hunting Act. Paragraph 25 (2) of the draft law states that without a contract, an immovable property may be hunted without limitation or marking from sunrise to sunset, but no closer than 200 metres from the building. At the same time, § 23 (2) states that hunting has also been treated as a product of hunting in nature. Therefore, it is not possible to move the hunting crop to a household situated on a property that the owner has not signed a hunting contract at white time. For example, if as a hunter I want to take my mother a duck and tell her it's okay to bake it, then I can't do it in white. I have to wait until it gets dark because my mother hasn't signed a hunting contract on her property. If I were a proponent of conspiracy theory, I'd say that hunters can get a good reason to come home from this yacht always in the dark §§ 23 and 25 of the law require it. In order to protect the interests of the spouses of hunters, I ask the Commission to review the paragraphs referred to. Since the draft does not take into account the specificities of the smaller islands and contains logic errors, I am left to say that the draft law on hunting is crude and that tomorrow the third reading is an early one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U185	Thank you very much, Mr Kalev Eagle. I would now like to ask my colleague Liisa-Ly Pakosta. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U186	Good friends! A series of poison darts have been sent towards the State Forest Management Centre, and since this has been done completely wrong, I will only stand before you in order to correct the most important factual errors that have occurred in this Chamber. I start with the fact that part of Estonia's non-disclosure of private hunting companies was laid down in the First Hunting Act of the Republic of Estonia already in 1993. At that time, a requirement was introduced that at least 9% of the country's hunting areas should be reserved for potential research, training and other public tasks of the country. The legal successor of these hunting areas is the State Forest Management Centre, which has abandoned most of the hunting areas and has retained the right to hunt only 3% of all Estonian hunting countries. I repeat: only 3% of all Estonia's hunting grounds, mostly on state-owned land. The aim remains to carry out public tasks. For example, in the Kilingi-Nõmme hunting area, most of the territory is prohibited from hunting large predators to explore the dynamics of their population and draw appropriate conclusions. Another task is to offer hunting opportunities to hunters outside hunting connections. This will be organised by a public auction for the third year as decided by the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. The interest in it has been great in all years, which proves that there are many hunters who cannot hunt. Lauri Laas's question was therefore ten. Indeed, new young people often have nowhere else to turn to than the State Forest Management Centre. Having hunting areas does not give the country much information about what it actually costs to hunt. I am referring here to the question put by Mr Kaljuvee. On average, this year's auction was worth 2.17 euros per hectare for the possibility of hunting. Dear friends, this is less than a pack of cigarettes! The State Forest Management Centre is the country's largest landowner in Estonia, for whom it is not so important to earn income by organising hunting as a valuable forest. These are two different tasks. Therefore, the State Forest Management Centre has no desire to hunt itself in the hunting areas issued to users. At the same time, the State Forest Management Centre, as a forest grower, assumes that, in agreement with the users of the hunting grounds, the compensation for game ovens will be distributed among themselves. Let's look at the facts. In 2012, the State Forest Management Centre assessed extensive game damage on 222 hectares. The total area of forests managed by RMK is approximately 850000 hectares. The total loss was EUR 145000, which is about 17 cents per hectare. Dear friends, comparing these two figures shows that the ability to compensate for damage is about 12 times greater than the damage. Remember €2.17 and €0.17? Therefore, there is no reason to fear that compensation will be too much for hunters in the future. Nor is it true that the RMK Council is constantly gathering to bully hunters. Its views were shaped in 2010 and informed both the representative organisations of hunters and the general public. According to the general principle, RMK does not seek to generate revenue from the rental of hunting grounds and therefore the user in the hunting area, who can control the game ovens, may in future take into account the possibility of hunting on state-owned land, paying zero euros per hectare of hunting land. Obviously, this fact also needs to be repeated: zero euros per hectare of hunting grounds. The talk has been about poor hunters and wealthy foreign businessmen carrying Estonian primal traditions. Hopefully, the men behind the gun will not be accounted for on the basis of nationality in any of the Estonian hunting areas and RMK has not done so either. It is estimated that less than 10% of the participants in the competitions are foreign nationals. If we put aside Heiki Hepner, a forest expert, who thinks that a whole third of the hunters shot will be shot by foreign guests, then we will also come to the conclusion that the accusation of RMK against the Estonian peasant population is what it was? just about enslavement is completely unwarranted. Dear friends! Finally, I hope that all of you who have spoken so passionately today on the subject of the Hunting Act will show at least the same passion as we are talking about the preservation of the human population in the Republic of Estonia. I would like to see just as much deepening and as inflammatory speeches as we are going to discuss, for example, the compensation for parents of the harm that children cause with their diet. I wish you fruitful discussions, but please rely on facts, concrete figures and other facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U187	Thank you very much, Mr Liisa-Ly Pakosta. I would now like to ask my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin of the speaker's desk. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U188	Ladies and gentlemen, I happen to be among those who think that killing a bear in the Estonian forest is equivalent to killing an elephant in an African savanna. I'm gonna take your discussion here, like, between the two interest groups, but I have the right to say the word. There were 15,000 hunters in Estonia and 60000 guns registered. 15,000 people out of our population are a clear minority. I have a pleasant opportunity to perform for the majority. I must say at the beginning that, if there were no Article 27 in this bill, I would probably smile somewhere in the smoke room and not participate in your debate here. And one more thing: this is deeply my personal position. Well, hunting. From a hunting point of view, if you look at the attitude, there are four groups of people. The first group is very well characterised by a dialogue about a great American film. The man his boss invited to the hunt comes home in this movie and asks his wife to listen, see if it's okay to go hunting with those pants tomorrow. The man's never been hunting. She looks at him with contempt and says, "Hey, imagine that you're a little deer, you're such a graceful, you have big watery eyes, you're so great, you're walking in your home, there's fresh grass in the woods, sweet water, and suddenly one bullet comes hopping, and your brains and bones are flying several metres away. What the hell difference does it make to the man who killed you in the pants?! " About this way, I am listening to this dialogue. That means there are people who don't want to hear more about hunting than the one I'm gonna talk about a little later. I am the great enemy of hunting. I don't think we can kill our younger brothers. But there are three more groups. The other group is people who agree that yes should clean the forest, kill a number of bears and elk, so that others would be better. If you ask them how they regulated this thing before the appearance of a man, or more specifically a hunter, then the answer is, uh, it just came out of them. The third group is the ones who are in favour of hunting, but they'd like it to be a little fairer. If you can run as fast as our colleague's Arrow, for example, put an arrow at the speed of the wolf, then smack him with a fist and hit him with your teeth, but be a man and go up against him without that technical device that you can kill him half a mile away. And the fourth group is specifically those hunters who can't live without killing someone and then gut him. This is how we split up and take it easy for us to know if it wasn't § 27. People, what are you doing?! You want to allow a bow hunt! Of course, it is said that in civilised countries, such as Finland and Latvia, this is allowed, everything is okay. Colleagues, the progressive income tax is in 23 countries of the European Union. If you follow your logic, we should have progressive income tax tomorrow. This logic doesn't play, it plays another logic. The gun doesn't make a joke at home, but open the internet, you have enough of them on the notebook tables. Find out how to make a bow. I got 27,000 sites explaining how this weapon can be manufactured. People don't read that law. The only thing they're gonna hear is that the archery is allowed. And I can make a bow in one night. If 40 years ago I was able to complete a bow in half an hour in Puurman's pioneer camp, which sent an arrow across the football field, in length, not width, then everyone can do the same. And what do you hunters say when wild game comes out of the woods, who die in the fields, near the houses, and whose neck, back, butt can be plucked out of the bowbolt? Do you really think that the attitude towards hunting will improve then? Experiment! There are quite a few small birds at hand here. In Kadriorg Park, I saw three squirrels this morning. Colleagues, let's arrange, please, an event called Killed Squirrel Day in Kadriorg Park! We call in people with bows and let them show us how it works and how many wounded squirrels run away. Listen, you're gonna solve these land issues with quotas, or what you've got there. You can solve it, but why are you letting this madman have bows? Do you really believe that people who get a bow ready at home in half an hour will apply for these permits? The bow is taken apart, put in their pockets, and it goes into the woods, and no one can control it. If you hunters shoot with a gun, you'll kill a bear or moose humanely, with an optical target of 99%. It's disgusting to me, but at least it's happening in an instant. And I think you're gonna bang it too. Or do you use dampers? No, I'm not. A colleague who deals with this is saying he doesn't. But the bow is a rifle with a silencer. You don't give other game a chance to get away with it. It's a weapon with a silencer, and the animals don't feel the danger of being ambushed in this part of the forest. And the bastard with the bow walking in the woods can hurt dozens of animals before he gets one. Colleagues, let's be people, let's take out § 27! It's against human nature, it's unhumane. This could be fucking bullshit. I hope that you will preserve the human face and continue to deal with this bill and take everything that concerns the archery out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U189	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. Please, Mr Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U190	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this bill has created a great deal of emotion. We also saw this in this Chamber today, when the debate reached partial coverage of the losses caused by children by the state, as well as the question of the archery raised by a good colleague, Mr Stalnukhin. I'm gonna start with the archery. You should not be so afraid of it, as a good colleague has just demonstrated here. In fact, the arrows must be marked with a specific hunter's number. If someone's wounded an animal, the number will tell who let the arrow fly. And in the case of beavers, for example, the probability of being caught with an arrow and getting an animal is higher. So that's not how things are gonna happen, like a good colleague painting a picture on the remote. However, against the background of all these emotions, the question of why a new hunting law is still needed. I think it is reasonable to come back to the fact that the Chancellor of Justice had made it very clear that the constitutional rights of the landowner had been violated in the current law. That was the reason the law was taken up. I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not a draft drawn up on the basis of agreements. In fact, if there were agreements, they were not based on basic school and upper secondary school law. There were other agreements, and here I want to remember them. When the draft came to the Riigikogu, there was no state involvement in covering the damage caused by the game. Now it's inside, as you heard. The fund was not mandatory, but it is now clearly stated in the law. The ten-year extension of the current lease definitely favours hunters, not so-called "big businessmen." There is also compensation for damage caused when it comes to land bordering nature reserves, as well as the archery I have just touched. So, in fact, there were quite a lot of agreements and I would like to confirm that the draft has been born on the basis of a broad consensus. A few words about why these negotiations were going so hard. If we can generally say that there is no business hunting in Estonia, then in real life we have started to do so. Yachts have emerged in several parts of Estonia, where they operate on a business basis. The carousing permit costs EUR 3500, the deer residence permit costs more or less the same amount, and if the landlord knows this, that is how the problems have arisen. At the same time, I would like to confirm that the Estonian Hunters' Society has done very good work against these so-called closed hunting areas. But we still have about 3,000 hunters who don't have a yacht to belong to. I'm sure what I'm saying is that I don't find people leaving the country because of this law. Quite the opposite. It must also be acknowledged that the wishes of the well-known hunting scientist Nikolai Laanetu have not been included in the bill. I recall his very correct point that the primary objective of hunting law must be to protect and use game populations in a rational way. But I'm convinced that...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U191	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U192	... if this future law is applied reasonably, the thoughts of Nikolai Laanetu can be put into practice. And this can be done by the same county hunting councils, if they are indeed formed on a community-based basis and given them decision-making power. In my opinion, the ministry officials have confirmed that this will be the case. Yes, it must be acknowledged that not all parties like the draft law, but it is acceptable. Now for the treatment of claims, which is the most emotional subject. I daresay in real life it's not gonna be as big a problem as it's been in this hall. Most hunters are landowners, most hunters go hunting with the men in their area, and if they have not yet claimed compensation for these losses, believe me, they will not do so in the future. Some people will probably start, but it won't be overwhelming. People want to belong to a community, to work with others, to exist together. I don't think this is gonna be a big problem. Have a good debate for all of you, and have a good day!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U193	Thank you very much, Mr Tulik. Now please, colleague of the speaker, Tõnu July!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U194	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, please. My great-grandfather was a hunter, and my grandfather, who fought in the War of Independence, was also a hunter. My father was a hunter, and I am a hunter, and my sons are hunters. So compared to Mikhail Stalnukhin, I'm his opposite. I certainly don't think hunting is a wild passion to kill. That's also true of today's archery. I can't imagine a hunter who, as Stalnukhin said, wants to go into the woods with a bow and shoot some animals there so that an animal would suffer for a few days before he dies. Of course, that is not the case. Hunting is one of mankind's oldest and most authoritative hobbies. Hunting has existed on the face of the earth for thousands of years, and as a result, Mr Stalnukhin is here among us, because his forefathers were able to guarantee such a table that they could give life to their offspring. Listening to all these speeches here today, I felt very warm about Lembit Kaljuvee's speech. If Lembit comes here on the remote, he will always represent the state-manship of partyhood and propaganda policy will remain in the background. In the case of such men, it seems to me that they want to leave Estonia behind after the end of their parliamentary work, better than when we came to Parliament. Here there were a number of philosophic truths, including that earning wages, going to work is a part of life. The richer the country, the less important it is. I will, for example, bring the welfare-Mecca surveys in Scandinavia. The people there clearly answer that they work so that they can then become more dedicated to their hobbies, family, and friends. I had the opportunity to go to Finland as a doctor as early as 1989, because I worked there several times as a replacement doctor. But I have never really wanted to go for the simple reason that Estonia is a whole for me. And one part of this whole is hunting alongside the job. That's what keeps me here. Why has today's discussion in this Chamber been so hot, and why is there a great interest in this law outside the Riigikogu? But because the Hunting Act regulates much more in Estonia than some ignorant speakers think. I will, for example, take the cultural field aside. Would Laine and Imre like to have a band song party instead of choirs? How would that work out for them? Or do they want to protect the country with 4,000 men instead of 20,000? With our new law, we can initiate a process that can lead to the quiet decay and decay of hunting culture. One half of the owners of the private forest reach something in importance of property, while the other half, or hunting, fades. That's not what we really need. Men should fit into the forest in Estonia. We need to find a compromise, given the interests of property and hunting as a part of public culture. For me, hunting is no less important part of culture than, for example, choir songs or theaters. Most people who have chosen to do so enjoy nature and devote much of their free time to it. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U195	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Black and white drafts have sometimes been discussed in this Chamber and we are adopting similar laws. The law of hunting is certainly not the law of black and white. On my question to the rapporteur, I argued that this bill had been pending in the government, or rather in the ministry, for five years and a little more. Indeed, there are several reasons for this. Even it is wrong to say that there are many of them. What happened in the five years? The Ministry, or rather the Reform Party, had the desire to make hunting a landowner. Indeed, the current hunting law is inclined toward the hunter. I think IRL had the right position in this whole Estonian hunting ideology. They fought for it for quite a long time and achieved little success. But I would stress that this success has been small and today I would have had reason to congratulate the reformers who pushed their way and, unfortunately, the current draft Hunting Act is leaning towards the other side: it is on the owner's side. Of course, nothing will happen tomorrow, but only when this law is passed. Then the situation gradually changes in the direction that the number of hunters in Estonia is decreasing. This is because hunting is much more expensive and people with small and medium wallets cannot hunt in Estonia. Our Estonian environment actually loses this law with its entry into force. It's not a blow, tomorrow, but we're gonna start this law on the trend that a rich man can go hunting for the forest, it's a local landlord, a local rich man, or we're gonna lure people here from elsewhere to pay for it. Today, the rapporteur rightly stated several times that this was not the Commission's subject and that we did not discuss it. What questions did he actually answer? We can talk about some legal nuances in one section or another, but unfortunately the content of the draft was not hit in the Commission, although the matter was discussed nine times. We're talking about one area of life. I had the impression that this law would change the direction of one area of life in our country. We often talk little about how one or the other law helps to promote life in Estonia, whether people stay in Estonia or why they go away. I think not thousands for such a solution to the Hunting Act, but some young families leave Estonia. What else do I want to say? The opposition did a good job, the IRL fought mightyly for its treasures, but unfortunately it was defeated. The Reformers, who are businessmen fighting for businessmen, won. Businessmen in this law win both hunters and others who earn from hunting. These others are catering, accommodation and transport companies. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U196	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U197	Although both the waitress and the minister here claimed that this is not a business approach, we have unfortunately gone down the road that we have sold like a piece of Estonia, made a trade. So we take away the opportunity of many people to deal with this primordial hobby in the future. I would stress, precisely with a primordial hobby. And I am deeply sorry that the IRL, who should fight to get as wide a group as possible to deal with something patriotic and primitive in Estonia, did not achieve this in the process of processing the draft Hunting Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U198	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Tiit Tammsaare! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U199	I am a member of the management board of the Fourth Composition of the Estonian Hunters' Association, and I am sad to say that our search for a compromise lasting nearly five years has failed. And it's probably that way in this house. The multi-annual intensive process of coordinating the new hunting law and smoothing the differences of opinion will be over today and tomorrow, with a fatal solution for the future of hunting. It is a pity that the compromise that was negotiated outside this house was turned on its head right here on Toompea. No compromise could be found in the search for harmony between hunters, nature keepers and the Apologists of the ultraliberal market economy, the mammon men. The reputation of Estonia as one of the richest and most magnificent countries of the European Union will only become a nostalgic memory by adopting this law. These values and the principles of diversity and balance of nature, which Estonian hunters have held firmly for centuries, regardless of the regime, are becoming a thing of the past, only as a result of the skilful and Jesuit lobby of a small number of the beneficiaries. Most rural and foresters, including me, do not win a cent of the law and can only dream of the benefits of the alleged new hunting law and the realisation of ownership rights, because a handful of large landowners have made their new order. A few acres of men have to accept the status of a small shareholder. From the point of view of the diversity of species and the survival of the population, the new law does not have any function. In fact, everything has been done to eliminate such as minor values. The more hunting and hunting for tourism, the better, because wild game that devastates the sacred property of large owners is becoming increasingly scarce. The state, as such, does not control one of our greatest natural riches almost in any way. We're not gonna complain about the fate of the hunting clubs. Thanks to compensation for the costs imposed, such annoying NPOs will soon be largely lost or taken over smoothly. 'So what? " you ask, " who are not hunters, who are not concerned in the best sense of the matter? ' It's not that bad, compared to the world revolution! It has long been known that the cheapest meat is in Selver and fish in the Maximarket, or it was the other way around. The harvest from the forest is much more expensive than that offered in the most expensive chain of merchandise. To the ignorant in the best sense of the word, I owe a small explanation. We all know what is happening to our rural areas as a whole. The drastic reduction in agricultural labour intensity has now brought about irreversible changes in the country. Shops are closed, banks and post offices are not mentioned in the country, schools are closing doors with stoic consistency, cultural events and opportunities to deal with areas of interest. However, some signs of life can be observed here and there in spite of everything. Active villagers are defence allies and relief policemen and free-willed sprayers, and in addition to all this, they have been hunting in the forest at a free time. They have been loyal citizens of their own country, but now, unfortunately, it is over. At best, these villagers are allowed to shoot the guts of animals hunted by new Germans in the forest. A rhetorical question can and must be asked: did we want a country like this? Does the state's commitment to the European Union to provide about 200 wolves, 600 bears and also the population of lynxes here in Mary's Land have to stain this poor villager from his beer pocket? Is this another socio-economic shock still needed for our village? Whose interests will this quarrel be raised? Something's wrong with this picture! Once again, I call on everyone to refrain from adopting such a hateful law in haste. We still have time, but not too much. And if they do, believe me, those 15,000 so far state-faithful hunters, and in addition, their relatives can't forget that. They will not forget their 'benefactors' either in elections or volunteering to help the country. Personally, I am ashamed of the agreement created by this coalition's cow trade, one of which is the reformists who got their own hunting law, and there are rumors that the IRL will get its own basic school and high school law or God knows what else. If there's any way to understand the reformists, I'm particularly embarrassed about the IRL for abandoning the hunters. I would remind you that, before the previous elections, the Estonian first hunter and the guardian angel Jaak Aaviksoo were himself. You can see this by browsing the first issue of 2011 of the magazine Estonian Hunter, Jaak Aaviksoo promises to stand up for the hunters' aspirations until their death. What we've come to today is known to everyone. Finally, despite the adoption of the law, and this is why hunters and simple villagers do not abandon their holy fight. Even the worst law can and must be amended, and who knows whether we should at last say that Pentus-Rosimannus is the Sand-Annus of Estonian hunting. Happy to enjoy the great Estonian nature and, above all, the diversity of our game until they have been slaughtered! But just because it's done, I'm dead sure today. It's all in the coalition's hands, so think before you press the button. All of Estonia's natural balance and the preservation of game are in your hands. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U200	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U201	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, When it comes to the nature of hunting, we know that there are hunters and hunters in Estonia in the circle of 15,000 to 16,000 people who use more than 80% of the country's land area for hunting purposes. We have approximately 30,000 weapons permit holders, more than 60,000 firearms in civil circulation, and most of them are in the hands of hunters. I am not talking about attacks here, I am talking about all this great hunting community, plus the tens of thousands of landowners affected by this bill. We want to achieve very fundamental changes with draft 351, make a heel turn in the hunting process and put the area on a new footing. On the other hand, we also want to resolve the concerns of landowners and hunters so that there is as little conflict and conflict as possible. Is that true? Paragraph 5 of our Constitution states that natural resources are national wealth, which must be used sustainably. Accordingly, in this Chamber too, we must decide on the main lines of national hunting policy in hunting, game monitoring, hunting and surveillance. We have a duty to ensure that the stock of wild game is restored to as many persons as possible. Today, many hunters are hunted and do not have a chance to hunt. This draft does not solve this problem either. Do we continue to overlook the fact that everyone is not guaranteed the right to free self - fulfillment? I have heard the claims that the Soviet regime still applies in hunting. Ladies and gentlemen, Our colleagues in Riigikogu's IX composition still dealt with the draft Hunting Act in the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic. The legal relationship between the landlord and the organisers of hunting and the landowner and hunter has been rewritten in several current chapters. It's for officials, organisers and those responsible. We can ask why it hasn't been done. And when it comes to the continuation of the Soviet era, it must be said that, as the rapporteur appointed by the Commission stressed, the draft takes over the existing provisions governing the relationship between hunters and the principles of the establishment of a hunting area. No changes are made to Norm 5000 hectares and limits and the right to use the hunting area remains the same. Once there were hunting councils, which now exist in the draft, and there are still attempts at large game shootings. This was a small list of what has been written beautifully in this bill. A number of commendable proposals were received to amend the draft and many meetings of the interested parties took place in the Commission. More heated disputes were about the principles of game damage. Compensation for damage has been left to the majority of hunters by the bill, with landowners, of course, taking part within the limits of their ownership. I think it is right that the State also participates in compensation for the damage. And for what reason? Our country's constitutional task is to ensure the survival and biodiversity of viable wildlife communities also for future generations. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U202	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U203	Hunters are just distracted by ignorance right now. They don't know what happens to this foundation, for example. Last year, forest owners have used only 8% of the European Union's funding for forest damage prevention and forest damage management. Consequently, there is little interest in this. But maybe it's an artificial interest, too?! For example, to get an even more radical version of today's bill on the table and put hunters in a different position of compulsion. Don't forget that! And what the overall cost of a yacht may be, you don't know that. There are no implementing acts with the bill on our tables. Perhaps the new law cannot be effectively implemented in practice. I am not talking at all about these dubious requirements that guest hunters from the countries of the European Union should carry out a shooting test. The Office of the President may challenge this requirement and refer the law back to the Riigikogu. The biggest concern, however, is that for years now, it seems to me that ministers are like carriers of such a rocket, where the drivers are quite different. And the third parties represent as if they were officials. Unfortunately, the Riigikogu is no longer a legislator, but indeed a rubber stamp with a compulsion. Finally, I assure you that I am not opposed to the fact that property is sacred and inviolable. But in the Constitution, gentlemen and ladies in the Chamber, there is also a point that talks about national wealth, the use of which is agreed in society. That's why we're in this hall to put this very necessary deal in place. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U204	Thank you very much, Mr Juul. Dear colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin, your reply, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U205	According to § 70 of our Home and Working Procedures Act, this is actually a reception, not a reply. But yes, two things I would like to say to my esteemed colleague, Tõnu July. I would even withdraw my proposal to remove section 27 of the draft on the archery hunt if my colleague Tõnu would swear here that his grandfather and great-grandfather went hunting in the woods with a bow, not a gun. There hasn't been such a culture to go hunting with a bow in Estonia. The introduction of this provision could lead to vibuturism and even to mass growth. So you may regret that you allowed it. And the other thing is, you called me a representative of the other side. I'm not the other half! The forest, along with everything there, belongs to the Estonian people, and I once again say that you, registered hunters, are 15,000, and we, all the rest of us, are not the other half of us, we are the absolute majority! And we have the right to demand normal regulation regarding the animals that live in the forest. Nobody's saying they're going there to torture animals, but shooting with an arrow is clearly not as lethal as shooting a gun, and it can lead to a lot of bad. Come on, people, get Section 27 out of the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U206	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to examine the amendments, there are 37 of them. Amendment 1 is tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kotkas, and the commission has rejected it. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U207	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U208	I'd love to! Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that there will be no comment during the vote. I shall put to the vote the first amendment tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kotkas, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. A second amendment has been tabled by the Central Party Group, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U209	The Group of the Estonian Centre Party is asking for a second amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U210	All right! Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to vote? I shall put to the vote the second amendment tabled by the Central Party Group, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please vote! 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3 is proposed and fully taken into account by the Committee on the Environment. Proposal No 4 is presented and fully taken into account by the Committee on the Environment. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and has also been fully taken into account. Proposal No 6 is Mait Rajuste, member of the Riigikogu, presented and taken into account in substance. [[The screams and the smiling room.]] What? I'm sorry! Ladies and gentlemen, I just haven't slept all night, and the tongue tends to go to the knot. I'm sorry again! Amendment 7 is from the Committee on the Environment, which has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment No 8 is tabled by Riigikogu member Rait Maruste, the commission has rejected it and, in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, it is not to be voted on. The ninth proposal is from the Committee on the Environment, which has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Proposal No 10 is from the Centre Party Group, which has been taken into account in substance by the Steering Committee. Amendment 11 has been tabled by Riigikogu member Rait Maruste, which has been taken into account in substance by the commission. Proposal No 12 has been made by the member of the Riigikogu Kalev Kotkas, the commission has rejected it and it is not to be voted on either. Proposals No 13 and No 14 have been made by the Committee on the Environment; they have been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Proposal No 15 has been made by Tõnu Juul, Member of the Riigikogu, the commission has taken full account of this. Amendment 16 has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, which has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U211	The Group of the Estonian Centre Party is asking for the vote on Amendment 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U212	I'd love to! Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 16, which has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and has been fully taken into account. Please vote! 44 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 23 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was supported. Amendment 17 has been tabled by a member of the Riigikogu Tõnu Juul, the commission has partially taken into account. Proposal No 18, author Kalev Kotkas, member of the Riigikogu, the commission has failed and it is not to be voted on. Proposal No 19, author of the Riigikogu member Tõnu Juul, is considered in substance. Proposal No 20, author Tõnu Juul, member of the Riigikogu, the commission has taken full account of it. Proposal No 21, author Kalev Kotkas, member of the Riigikogu, the commission has failed and this is not to be voted on. Number 22 is a proposal from the Committee on the Environment and has been fully taken into account. Proposal No 23, author Tõnu Juul, member of the Riigikogu, the commission has taken this into account in part. Proposal No 24, author of Riigikogu member Kalev Kotkas, the commission has failed and it is not to be voted on. Proposal No 25, author of Riigikogu member Kalev Kotkas, the commission has failed. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U213	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U214	Please! I shall put to the vote Amendment 29, which has been tabled and taken fully into account by the Committee on the Environment. Please vote! 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 32 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendments 30, 31, 32 and 33 have been tabled and taken fully into account by the Committee on the Environment. Proposal No 34 is from Rait Marust, member of the Riigikogu, and the commission has rejected it and it is not to be voted on either. Proposal No 35 is presented and taken fully into account by the Committee on the Environment. The author of proposal No 36 is Kalev Kotkas, member of the Riigikogu, and the commission has disregarded this. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U215	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U216	Please! I shall put to the vote Amendment 36, which is tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kotkas, and which has been disregarded by the commission. Please vote! 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 41 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. And last amendment, No 37, tabled by the Committee on the Environment. The Governing Commission has taken full account of this. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all the amendments. Since both the Social Democratic Party Group and the Centre Party Group have proposed that the second reading of draft Hunting Act 351 be interrupted, we must vote on it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group and the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of bill 351 of the Hunting Act. Please vote! 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 42 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Second reading of Bill 351 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U217	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U218	All right! Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 25, which is tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kotkas, and which has been disregarded by the commission. Please vote! 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 43 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 26 is submitted by a member of the Riigikogu Tõnu July, the commission has partially taken into account. Proposal No 27, by the Committee on the Environment, has been fully taken into account. Proposal No 28 is made by a member of the Riigikogu Tõnu July, the commission has rejected it and it is not to be voted on. Proposal No 29 is made by the Committee on the Environment, which has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. My colleague Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U219	I would like to vote on Amendment 29.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U220	The next item is the first reading of the Bill 421 of Amendment to § 131 of the Waste Act initiated by the Committee on the Environment. For a presentation, I would like to ask Tõnis Kõiv, Member of the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U221	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment decided to present the draft regulation 421 after discussion at its meeting on 8 April. This discussion was based on two letters received from us: one from Horizon Tsellulose and Paper AS and the other from the City Government of Sillamäe. Both letters stated that landfills closed by them needed to be covered. The activities necessary for this purpose are, as is claimed by Horizon Tsellulose and Paper AS, mainly done, but it will take some time to carry out the landscaping work of the industrial waste storage area. It makes sense to do so in a less environmentally effective way, i.e. by using the same very suitable materials that the plant will be left over from production. It wouldn't be right to move from somewhere else to the surface and thereby harm the environment more. It turned out from the letter from the Municipality of Sillamäe that they have a problem analogous to that: they will not reach their landfill by 16 July 2013 properly organized. Their main problem is that the Environmental Investment Centre received a positive response to the request for money to close the landfill, but the subsequent steps in preparing and running the procurement were much more expensive than planned. For this reason, one procurement procedure had to be closed and the following procedure had to be started, which unfortunately led to the fact that the landfill could not be properly repaired by this summer. The Committee on the Environment examined both letters and heard the opinion of the representative of the Ministry of the Environment. The latter has clearly told us that the current legal regulation requires non-compliant landfills to be cleaned up by 16 July 2013. If this has not been done by then and some work is not completed, then it will no longer be possible to use the structural support funds after this deadline, but the parties concerned will have to find the necessary funds themselves. The representative of the Ministry of the Environment proposed to shift the deadline for the disposal of landfills until 31 December 2015. On 8 April, the Committee on the Environment decided to initiate a draft amendment to § 131 of the Waste Act. It was a consensual decision. If the whole issue of the draft is to be repeated briefly, I would remind you that, in accordance with the Council of the European Union Directive since 1999, the requirements for the construction, use and closure of landfills were transposed into Estonian law, according to which the decree of the Minister for the Environment stipulated that all landfills remaining operational after 31 December 2001 must comply with the requirements of this regulation by 16 July 2009 or be closed by the same time. Paragraph 2 of that regulation provided that landfills closed in 2009 should be cleaned up in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Regulation by 16 July 2013 at the latest. Those landfills closed for storage must be repaired in order to avoid any adverse environmental impact. The extent of the environmental impact depends, of course, on the size, volume, nature and natural circumstances of the landfill. Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 laying down common provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund I also note that if we had a clear obligation under the European Union Directive to close non-compliant landfills by 16 July 2009 at the latest, then we can determine the deadline for cleaning closed landfills in Estonia on our own merits and needs. As a result, the draft for the extension of the deadline drawn up by the Committee on the Environment is not contrary to European Union law. The impact of the law on the environment is positive as it aims to properly organise all landfills closed for the disposal of waste by extending the term of work to the date until which structural support for this purpose can be used. At its meeting on 9 April, the Committee on the Environment made the following organisational decisions: first, to appoint Tõnis Kõiv as rapporteur for the commission, to propose to the Management Board of the Riigikogu that the first reading be placed on the agenda on Wednesday 24 April, to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the first reading be completed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be ten working days, i.e. 9 May 2013. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U222	Thank you very much, Mr Kõiv. Question from my colleague Andre Sepa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U223	Good waitress! Are the only two landfills in Estonia that need this extension known to the Commission? Can we call this document the two Landfill Bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U224	Yes, as far as we know, there are no problems with other landfills that are closed and need to be repaired. We have made our change on the basis of the specific letters that have come to us. It is quite certain that one landfill would have a smaller impact on the environment, the other would have the use of the money earmarked for this purpose, rather than having Sillamäe's budget looking for these amounts at the expense of other funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U225	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Kõiv. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 421 amendments. 9 May at 5.15 p.m. First reading of Bill 421 is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U226	We will begin the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on organic farming and state fees initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the honourable Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder, to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U227	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear organic politicians, The amendment of the Organic Farming Act and the State Fees Act is particularly relevant to the need to facilitate the introduction of organic products and to encourage the indication of organic origin for food provided in catering establishments. According to the Organic Farming Register, as of 31 December 2012, Estonia had a total of 1478 persons engaged in organic plant and livestock farming and 159 persons involved in the preparation and placing on the market of organic products. However, at the end of 2012, only eight persons were registered for organic food in the catering business. At meetings with representatives of organic organisations, it has become clear that such products are used in food production in many schools, kindergartens and catering establishments, but without reference to them. The complexity of the requirements and the time intensity of the identification process were highlighted as a hindrance. The development plan for Estonian organic farming for 2007-2013 sets the strategic objective of increasing the market share of local organic products and ensuring that consumers have access to local organic food. According to a survey carried out by TNS Emor in 2012, organic products sold in Estonia for a total of 6.01 million euros in 2011 and organic products produced in Estonia accounted for 0.47% of the retail turnover of food products. Simplifying the requirements for the provision of organic food in catering establishments will contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the development plan. The draft proposes replacing the obligation to recognise mass caterers using organic ingredients with an obligation to notify, where organic food may be offered immediately after the notification has been submitted. This will reduce the administrative burden for both the company and the Food and Veterinary Office, as the volume of documents to be submitted will be reduced. An application for notification shall be sufficient for legislative amendments to enter into force. Checks on catering establishments will be carried out on a risk-based basis, i.e. not every year. Catering establishments shall not be provided with a supporting document and their particulars shall not be entered in the organic register. The Food and Veterinary Office shall make public on its website a list of the catering establishments involved in the preparation of organic products. In order to facilitate the supply of organic food in catering establishments, the draft plans to exempt catering companies from paying the state fee. Given the growing popularity of organic products, it can be expected that a number of new fooders specialising in organic products will enter the market and that organic products will be more widely used in the catering business. In addition, it is planned to clarify the competence of the authorities in the area of governance in the supervision of persons involved in the production of feed and to update the organic farming law and the state fee law to the needs identified in the implementation of the legislation. The amendments to the State Fees Act align the terminology used in it with that used in the Organic Farming Act. The implementation of the Act does not entail any additional costs for the state budget, nor does it entail any new revenue. The Act amending the Law on Organic Agriculture and the Law on State Fees is intended to enter into force on 1 July 2013, if it is approved by the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U228	Thank you very much, Minister. Any questions? Please, my colleague Andre Sepp!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U229	Good minister! What else can we do for the country? What are the issues of legislation that prevent not only organic food from being produced but also provide it in schools and kindergartens, for example? What major obstacles do you see that organic food is currently used little in our educational establishments?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U230	It will certainly be possible to simplify bureaucracy, i.e. the requirements for the production, processing, marketing and also catering of organic food. There are still reserves here, and I believe that today we are taking one step in this direction. We have analysed in the ministry how bureaucracy can be simplified, and it is quite possible that we will come up with a few more proposals. But certainly bureaucracy or legislation is not the main obstacle. The main obstacle in the whole chain is the processing industry. The processing industry is not very interested in organic products, as the quantities of organic products are very small and security of supply remains to be desired. The quantities come at different times and there is no permanent consistency. Constantly firm quantities of organic producers are generally not able to deliver to industries and this is a serious problem. So our first step is towards increasing the quantities produced. The second step is to ensure that the processing industry is interested and secure supply. From there on, a lot depends on people's awareness and people's wallets. As a rule, organic food is somewhat more expensive than ordinary food and its popularity is also determined by the consumer's wallet. So there are many obstacles that are not linked to bureaucracy, and these are what we are dealing with in the framework of the rural development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U231	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Kalev Kotkas, Member of the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Speaker's Committee, please be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U232	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Commission discussed the draft law amending the Law on organic farming and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 405 at its regular meetings on 9 and 15 April. The initiator was represented and explained by Mrs Evelin Hillep, Head of the Plant Protection Office of the Department of Plant Health of the Ministry of Agriculture, and by Marika Ruberg, Head of the Office for organic farming. The Commission fully shared the view that it would be reasonable to impose an obligation to inform mass caterers wishing to offer organic food instead of the obligation to recognise it so far. We were pleased that this would reduce the administrative burden. The debate also discussed whether it would be reasonable to round the rates of state fees to full euros. We dissected the concept of'mixed feed for the company'. We were wondering whether there would be additional functions and financial burden for the Agricultural Office, who had been involved in the debate on the draft by the social partners and what the feedback from stakeholders was. At its meeting on 9 April, a rapporteur was appointed by the Commission and it was decided to propose that the first reading be closed. At its meeting on 15 April, it was decided to send the draft to the Plenary Session for first reading on 24 April and to set the deadline for amendments at 6 May at 16 a.m. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U233	Thank you very much, Mr Kalev Eagle. No questions for the waitress. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. tho 6 May at 4 p.m. First reading of Bill 405 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U234	The last item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance of the speaker's desk, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U235	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The purpose of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws is to promote electronic administration between the tax authorities and the taxpayer. The tax authority shall have the right, according to the draft, to send the taxpayer an e-mail or a short message reminder that the tax liability has not been paid and any other tax information concerning the person. The tax authority shall make the document available to the taxpayer in the e-Tax Administration environment by e-mail or by means of a short message. The document shall be deemed to have been delivered if the taxable person sends a confirmation of receipt or opens a notice at the e-Tax Office. There is also the possibility to deliver documents by post. The provisions on the determination of the tax and the limitation of the collection of the amount of the tax will be amended. The limitation period for determining the amount of the tax shall be reduced from six to five years in the event of a deliberate non-payment or non-detention of the tax. The limitation period for recovery will be reduced from seven to five years. The percentage of tax debts over five years of age is very low. In addition to the amount of the tax debt, the tax authority will now have the right to publish the time when the tax debt was incurred without the consent of the person. The draft also repeals the Estonian SSR Farming Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U236	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Any questions? No, it's not. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau will take a three-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U237	Ladies and gentlemen, the President's break is over. I call on Mrs Vassilyev, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to act as rapporteur. I would also like to make a comment to you that I would like to ask you to be in the Chamber when your bill is being discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U238	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm so sorry! Since the previous debate took place so quickly, I simply did not get to the hall so quickly in this large Riigikogu building. It must be acknowledged that there was a very exciting and substantive debate on this draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. With your permission, I'll give you a brief overview. The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws at its meeting on 15 April. Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Tanel Ruusmaa, Chief Specialist, took part in the session. Various questions were asked and problems raised, and the most important ones I will introduce to you. It asked what the overall benefits of this draft would be for the taxpayer and whether bureaucracy could increase or decrease as a result of these changes. The promotion of electronic procedures is one of the key elements of this draft, and the possibility of electronic service of documents is broadened. However, where it is not possible for persons to receive documents electronically, this is done in an old way by post. Of course, it can be assumed that for a large part of taxable persons, electronic delivery of information means more rapid notification of their rights and obligations. That was the answer to the question. The draft repeals the Estonian SSR Farming Act, which is still in force. In this context, the initiators were asked how many more laws we still have that date from the Estonian SSR. The exact number could not be stated, but the laws adopted by the Supreme Council, which are still in force, could be withdrawn from the State's Official Journal. In relation to the draft, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has addressed the Monetary Affairs Committee, which pointed out that the coordination circle has now been amended by § 99 (3) of the Tax Administration Act compared to the draft. The Chamber proposes to put it back there, i.e. to amend this section as it was in the original version of the draft, to which coordination was also taken. In essence, the limitation period for determining the amount of the tax will not be suspended for the duration of the liability decision procedure. According to the explanations provided by the Ministry of Finance, the provision was excluded from the draft for technical reasons. In the near future, it is planned to improve the regulation of the liability decision further, and it was therefore decided to consolidate the amendments on one subject in a single draft. The whole point of this paragraph is to rule out a possible legal vacuum as to whether or not the limitation period for determining the amount of the tax will be suspended during the course of the proceedings for a liability decision. It is not directly regulated by the current law. In fact, the Ministry of Finance believes that, in essence, this option, which was in the original version of the draft, could be maintained, but that it should be further regulated in the future. The procedural decisions were as follows: propose that the first reading of draft 414 be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 2 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-24_U239	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. There are no questions for you. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 414 amendments. a 2 May at 5 p.m. First reading of Bill 414 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, our agenda has been exhausted. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.49 p.m.
