ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U1	Dear Riigikogu, Prime Minister and good guests, good morning! We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. No drafts or requests for information are recommended. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. The following members of government will attend Question Time on 6 November: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder. The Board of the Riigikogu has registered a member of the Urbo Vaarmanni Estonian Central Party. The Board of the Riigikogu has confirmed the membership of the Riigikogu member Urbo Vaarmanni as a member of the Cultural Commission. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 75 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 26 are missing. Let's clarify the agenda. In today's debate on the sixth item, the draft law amending the Parental Compensation Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group at first reading 486, the Chairman of the Social Committee, Margus Tsahkna, will present a presentation on behalf of the leading committee instead of the member of the Riigikogu Yana Toomi.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U2	We are going to address the items on today's agenda. Firstly, we have on the agenda an overview of the activities of the Government of the Republic in implementing European Union policy. I will present to you the procedure for dealing with this item. First of all, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip's presentation will last up to 30 minutes. Secondly, the President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Arto Asa, is a presentation that lasts up to 20 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. After answering the questions, there are negotiations involving political group representatives. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. I would like to present the speech chair to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Excellencys! I am pleased to be again before you to give an overview of the implementation of the policy of the European Union of the Government of the Republic. As an optimist, I have reason to be happy because both the downfall of the countries of the evening and those who contributed to the destruction of the euro were able to reap a great deal again last year. I am sure the skeptics will continue to be disappointed. I am convinced, above all, that the European Union remains the world's largest exporter and importer, the largest recipient of foreign investment, but also the largest foreign investor. Europe accounts for 22% of total world trade and for 75% of European exports. The trade surplus from European industry is EUR 365 billion per year. That's a billion euros a day. Above all, it is provided by European flagships in the aviation and automotive industry, mechanical engineering, pharmaceuticals and chemicals industries. For example, the global aviation market is essentially divided between two companies, one of which is from Europe (of course, Airbus). 43% of chemical exports come from Europe, 35% of global shipping equipment comes from Europe. There are 12 French companies among the 100 most innovative companies in the world that have just been published by Thomson Reuters. Estonian export peaks Ericsson and ABB are also on the same list. There are also places where Europe needs to pull itself together if it wants to be taken into account in the 21st century. Above all, Europe must make an effort to create a digital internal market. After all, the internal market is fragmented into 28 markets. Without a harmonised regulatory environment, business transaction costs will remain high, no economies of scale or the depth needed for European businesses to compete globally. Europe as a whole therefore needs to invest both in the basic infrastructure of the information society and in the relevant legal environment. We need, among other things, common data protection rules, common intellectual property and copyright and sales law, cross-border telecommunications and e-commerce, as well as laws facilitating innovation. There are already many very good solutions here and there in Europe that need to be accelerated in the spread and operation of cross-border borders. For example, the Danes have an enviable system of e-invoicing and the principle of "digital first." Lithuanians already have most of the public procurement online. However, the British are doing impressive work on e-commerce. Estonia also has its own working solutions for Europe. I am primarily convinced that we should introduce digital signatures in Europe. Its use in Estonia has resulted in savings of an estimated one week of work per employed person per year. This is 2% of GDP as a whole. When people learn to use e-services, they want to consume more of these convenient services. The country can set an example here. If digital signatures were introduced in Europe, the effect would be equivalent to two EU budgets. The European Union must also work to ensure that the "one time, last time" principle and the principle of the re-use of personal data are introduced both in the development of services provided by a Member State and across borders. It is true that there are areas where this principle in Estonia must only become customary. The principle of asking only once the data introduced in Estonia since 2007 received a letter in the text of the conclusions of the European Council. This must also be reflected in the Personal Data Protection Directive, which is currently being negotiated. We have decided to create a single European Union digital internal market by 2015. The economic impact of this creation has been estimated at 4% of GDP. I hope this is rather a modest assessment. Honourable Riigikogu! In the first half of 2013, the European economy as a whole again came out of stagnation and shows signs of recovery from the crisis. This is undoubtedly good news, and it has been achieved thanks to decisive action. I am therefore not surprised that the outlook for the IMF's global economy, published in October, was already far more positive than the rest of the world in assessing Europe's ability to act and pointing to risks. Tip links and glances have been replaced with recognition; it is no longer possible to distract attention from other problems when talking about Europe. My Finnish colleague, Jyrki Katainen, has said that if the new mechanisms for the euro area were fully implemented, the country rating of all euro area countries could be AAA in three years' time. Strengthening coordination of euro area national budgets and steps to restore confidence and health in the financial sector have already started to have a positive impact. The European Union must keep the pace of reforms fast and thus prevent future crises. Looking to the future, it will not be less important that the new EU budget is better linked to reforms and economic health. For example, instruments similar to the partnership agreements known to Estonia from the use of structural funds could help all countries implement reforms. The new budget will also provide much broader possibilities for freezing funds once the economy is out of balance. I am pleased to note that the stability mechanisms of Europe, which also fueled passion in Estonia, also show the expected results. At the end of this year, Ireland and Spain will be able to exit these programmes. Portugal is making significant progress and Greece is expected to strike a structural balance with its budget for the first time. For the most part, Latvia, which has only left the programme last year, will join the euro area in 2014. Honourable Riigikogu! Last year, I said that it would be reasonable and practical for us to strengthen the legitimacy of our European policy and the practices that support it. At government level, we have therefore permanently involved officials of the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs, the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice, Eesti Pank and the National Audit Office at the meetings of the European Union Coordination Council. I do not know of any other Member State in which there is such thorough national cooperation in European Union matters. The developments in legal policy approved by the Riigikogu until 2018 provide for Estonia's views on the draft legislation of the European Union to be dealt with as if it were Estonian laws. This principle provides the basis for decisions that are considered and in line with Estonia's interests. The negotiating mandate of the government is formed here in the Riigikogu. This year, the Riigikogu used for the first time the opportunity given to national parliaments by the Treaty of Lisbon to carry out a subsidiarity check on the suitability of the solution proposed in Europe. The audited draft directive on corporate accountability and accounting does not serve the objectives that have been requested in Estonia. The directive aims to reduce the administrative burden on businesses and increase transparency. Unfortunately, the result in Estonia is the opposite. In our circumstances, administrative burdens will increase, transparency will decrease and credit costs will increase. The opinions of the Riigikogu and the government overlap on this issue. I think that such checks could be carried out more frequently, but our own home procedures may be overly complicated. However, the Treaty of Lisbon sets a time limit for the publication of the opinion required for formal intervention. This limit is exactly eight weeks. Without wishing to interfere with the internal affairs of the Riigikogu, I suggest that the Riigikogu should have more trust in the European Union Affairs Committee when carrying out its subsidiarity control. The Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs has been up to its tasks and has shown good judgment. Honourable Riigikogu! To address Europe's problems, the most important thing to do is to have a long-term budget adopted soon. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the Riigikogu and the European Parliament as well as the good officials for the successful negotiations on the budget of the European Union for Estonia. With this agreement, we harmonised the competitive conditions of Estonian farmers and together we managed to secure investments for Estonia, which, by cleverly placing and combining with reforms, will give impetus to Estonia's development. Knowledge, innovation and productivity growth are crucial to ensuring Europe's well-being and creating new jobs. The available broadband internet, the diverse energy market and transport connections, among other things Rail Baltic, help our companies to push up value chains faster. The development of transport and logistics infrastructure and communications are also key factors for foreign investment in Europe. Honourable Riigikogu! The long-term budget will certainly add foreign policy weight to the European Union as the world's largest donor of development aid, as well as to the world's largest trader. I share the view of those who say that the success of European foreign policy is primarily determined by relations with its neighbours. That is why we are not getting over or around the Eastern Partnership of the European Union. The summit in Vilnius will soon be at the door. Today, only five years ago, the idea has been put forward, and it has become a very short time in the European Union, a dense network of links, contracts, formats, as well as hopes and expectations. The forthcoming summit is therefore certainly not like every other one. The countries of the Eastern Partnership of the European Union are once again at an important crossroads. They want to make a choice between a former economy and society and a European economy based on the rule of law and society. Estonia has already managed to make a similar turn of heels. Now our fellow fates also have the opportunity to choose a better future, above all by creating new opportunities for prosperity and guaranteeing European freedoms for their citizens. Association agreements and deep free trade agreements serve these objectives. The European Union itself has also started trade agreements, which have helped to keep peace in our continent for more than half a century. We should look even further than the Eastern Partnership already. The European Union should make at least the same effort in the future towards Central Asia. This is a strategically important region for Europe and Estonia has its own opportunities here. I quote to you the opinion that has been sincerely expressed recently by a high European diplomat: 'You will be trusted in the Central Asia region, because you have a historic common ground. Your advice is therefore more trusted than that of Western Europeans. ' My own immediate experience confirms the same. If all Member States contribute more to areas where they have a sense of fingertips through shared stories, experience and trust credit, it will benefit the whole of Europe. Honourable Riigikogu! In 2014, our first decade will come true as a member of the European Union. We have more opportunities to realize our interests than ever before. Herman Van Rompuy, speaking in the Riigikogu, said that Europe is first and foremost a place for Europeans where their ideas sound stronger and farther and meet with other ideas. Let us believe in ourselves and that Estonia too has much to offer Europe from its experience in order to make Europe even stronger and more operational. The recent Council also listened attentively and took into account Estonia's proposals to facilitate the organisation of European citizens' lives. In five years' time, in the year of the centenary of our country, Estonia will be the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. This means that Estonia is responsible for organising the work of a legislative chamber of the European Union for the first time. Estonia is undoubtedly doing so well, being a reliable and innovative partner of new digital solutions, among other things. A strong European Union is in our interest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U4	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Urmas Glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U5	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister, thank you for this review. President Gauck of the Federal Republic of Germany stressed in his speech on 3 October that Germany should take a more leading role in foreign policy in the European Union. It is nice to note that you also believe that Estonia should try to establish itself more in the foreign policy of the European Union as a whole. Do you consider the current institutions and forms of cooperation of the European Union to be up-to-date and responsive to needs, or should decision-making processes be made more effective in order to better meet the expectations and wishes of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U6	In my speech, I referred to the need for a change within the Estonian state. If we want to carry out more frequent subsidiarity control in the future, as it is called in Brussels, the current regulations within the Riigikogu are not flexible enough to do so. According to the Treaty of Lisbon, there are eight weeks for subsidiarity control, but this is a very short time. After all, the government must first shape its own positions, and then the Commission on European Union Affairs will discuss the matter. Subsidiarity checks and discussions in the Riigikogu hall will have a wonderful time. Perhaps it would be reasonable to limit ourselves to the European Union Affairs Commission, then there would probably be much more response possibilities and the scope of the response would also be greater, not limited to decisions taken under very high time pressure in the Riigikogu Chamber. But it is, of course, up to the Riigikogu itself. Changing the Treaties on the European Union is, as we know, not an easy matter. In my opinion, the amendments to the Treaties must not be proposed very easily, and they must immediately be eager to organise referendums and to amend the Treaties in the national parliaments. There must be a very justified need for this. The great value of the constitutions of the Member States is that they are permanent, not being changed easily, and so should the Treaties on the Functioning of the European Union. At the same time, if, due to crises, the fact that the Treaties need to be clarified makes it possible to introduce new regulations to enhance the stability of both the European Union and the euro area, we should not be afraid to make such justified changes. However, we must certainly take into account the fact that there is a great deal of explaining to do. Public opinion in different Member States can be very different in terms of making changes. Therefore, the changes that we would like to make in the Treaties must be very justified. But philosophically speaking, we will definitely need to change these agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U7	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U8	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister, first of all, thank you for your presentation. At the end of October, a conference of European Union Affairs Committees was held in Vilnius where we talked about digital applications: digital signature, one-off questioning of data, etc. Of course, we found a very positive reception until then that it was said that if there is something to be done in this area in some European countries, then everything has already been done in Estonia, all you have to do is come here and see. It wasn't us who said it, it was us who told it. However, there was also a reaction that data protection, in particular the protection of personal data, remains a problem. How do you feel about whether the development of the European Digital Single Market and the processing of the Personal Data Protection Directive can go in parallel or whether one has to wait until the other one is finished?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U9	Not all possible digital solutions have already been developed and introduced in Estonia. We have room for improvement, and yes. In our country's example, we can say that data protection has also not achieved such a level of security that we can say calmly that this has been done and that we are going to develop even more digital services. Of course, these things must go hand in hand. When there is a lack of trust in personal data protection issues, when people have a reasonable feeling that someone has invaded their private sphere without their permission, it naturally only feeds distrust. Everything needs to be addressed: protecting people's privacy, ensuring cyberspace security, as well as providing new digital services.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U10	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U11	Thank you very much. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your presentation. I listened very carefully and tried to find keywords that are quite much under discussion in the European media, in the European Parliament, as well as in the national parliaments. One of them has been the Youth Guarantee this year. I didn't hear that keyword in your presentation. Why did you keep this subject quiet? Aren't young people important to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U12	Of course, young people are important to us. Young people are even so important to us that we belong to those countries of the European Union where youth unemployment is considerably lower than the average in the European Union. We have dealt with increasing youth employment, regardless of common EU policies. When it comes to Eurostat data, this work has also produced clear results. Indirectly, I also referred to measures to increase youth employment in my speech. I have noted that at European Union level, the most important decision at present is the adoption of the European Union budget, which is the result of a very large number of initiatives. We have, of course, approved the budget at the Council meeting a long time ago. As I said in my speech, it is a good budget for Estonia and the entire European Union, but unfortunately it has not yet been approved by the European Parliament. The actual implementation of the Youth Guarantee is also primarily behind the approval of the EU's next multi-annual budget plan. I hope that these inherent problems will soon be resolved and that the multiannual budgetary plan for 2014 to 2020 will be approved by the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U13	Thank you very much. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U14	Thank you! Prime Minister! Several ambassadors have signalled that Estonian ministers could play a more vocal role in European processes, using Estonia's positive example in shaping a more responsible fiscal policy. That doesn't just apply to the Minister of Finance. I'm sure they'll do it to some extent. You yourself referred to your proposals in the Council meeting. But should Estonia speak more strongly in Europe, or are we too small and we will not be heard anyway? Do we have room for improvement here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U15	I am pretty sure that there is no one among the finance ministers of the European Union who does not know the main indicators of Estonian finances. I am also convinced that there is no one among the heads of government of my colleagues who would not know what the main indicators characterising Estonian finances are. The fact that the debt burden of the Estonian government is the smallest in the European Union is certainly known to all colleagues. The fact that there is still as much money in our government reserves as Estonia has been owed is well known. It is also well known that our budget has been in surplus long enough in good years, and even in bad times, we have almost never fallen below the 3% limit allowed by our deficit in the Stability and Growth Pact. Only once, in 1999, was the deficit 3.5%. Later, even in those years when Estonia has been a country of the European Union, we have complied with all the important rules governing finance. To be aware of what everyone already knows and to do it even more vocally than before would be inappropriate. I am quite convinced that even when there was a deep crisis in the European Union, all my colleagues knew what should be done. But there are very different situations in countries. The question is how to do what needs to be done. In some countries this has been successful, in some countries it is not very good. Now we can say that, in the end, all countries, including those who have been in a very deep crisis, are either coming out of the crisis or are already coming out of the crisis, and the future of the European economy can be viewed with a more optimistic eye.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U16	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U17	Thanks for the presentation. In your presentation, you mentioned the forthcoming Estonian Presidency in 2018. How do you assess the preparation so far? Is Estonia ambitious enough? Are targets set? Perhaps you can introduce the preparations for the Presidency in a few words.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U18	It is a little early to talk about the very specific objectives of the Presidency of the European Union. It is well known that many of the questions before the Presidency have come from the desk of the previous presidencies. Today, predicting what initiatives will be achieved by 2018 so far that Estonia will have the honour of adopting directives is a beautiful challenge. But, of course, we are already dealing quite intensively with the future Presidency of Estonia in the European Union. In particular, this means analysing the various obligations. We know how much more people we have to hire during the Presidency, we know how to train these people. Part of this, of course, has already started. We're gonna find out who these people are. We know what the meetings are like, which Estonia must lead during the Presidency. Of course, if we know how many of these meetings take place in different formats, we can already plan what premises could hold these meetings, etc. Of course, we also take into account that, in order to carry out the tasks of the Presidency of the European Union, money must be allocated from the state budget. So this job is big enough. We will deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U19	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U20	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! On the one hand, it was very nice to hear your speech full of optimism. No doubt you have a great deal of experience thanks to these almost ten years in the European Union. However, in the Commission and here in the Riigikogu, I often think that directives come from one, the other and the third in the European Union. Most of them are restrictive. Has it not occurred to you that, with its directives and direction, the European Union is making us a bureaucratic institution where almost nothing can be done, especially in business? There are just so many restrictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U21	I don't want to agree with your assessment in any way. If we are talking about the same single digital market that has been dealt with quite thoroughly today, then we all feel that the current situation is not satisfying us. The European Union has 28 Member States and each has excellent legislation in the field of IT. At the same time, we know very well that, in fact, these 28 excellent regulations actually build barriers between the countries of the European Union. I have probably already given an example of the Estonian people who work in Finland. Every year, these 20000 people must take a paper certificate from the Estonian Social Insurance Board and take it to Finland, where a proper state official carefully inserts it into the computer. This is no longer acceptable in the 21st century! In our country, the X-Road, which the citizen may need to explain as the principle of asking data once, has been implemented since 2007. If the state has asked its own citizens or residents for information once, then another time asking for the same information should in principle be prohibited. We ourselves are wrong about this principle, but the implementation of this principle has led to the exchange of data between different databases. The X-Road in Estonia works. A person no longer has to walk between public authorities and ask for any papers from each office, put them together in a file, or bring a whole package of paper to someone to make sure that their application is granted. Finland is actually the same. I say that in Finland, public e-services, online e-services are better developed than in Estonia, perhaps one of the Estonian IT men is offended by my assessment, but I feel that way, and yet I have to print data in one country when dealing with cross-border matters, buy a ship ticket or plane ticket again and deliver it 80 kilometres away, to another country. At the initiative of Finland, we have started to harmonise the exchange of information between certain databases in two countries and to create conditions, a common data exchange layer, so that this can be done. The first step is to exchange tax data in this way. Of course, security, the privacy of individuals, even when it comes to cross-border data exchange, must certainly be guaranteed. Go on. If we can use the services digitally in Estonia, if we can start a business in 15 minutes, then the question arises as to why an Estonian person in other countries could not start a business in the same way in 15 minutes. Why, for example, can Finns start a business in Estonia in the same way as Estonians? Why can the residents of Portugal start a business in Estonia the way the Estonians establish it, but why, for example, can't the Germans? We need uniform regulation for the whole of the European Union. This common regulation, of course, also means setting very clear limits, which are and are not allowed. If there is no such regulation, there will be no single digital market. If there are no common rules across the European Union, then there is no point in talking about mutually acceptable digital signatures. However, as I said in my speech, it has been said in Estonia that the introduction of digital signatures in our circumstances has, in financial terms, produced an effect comparable to 2% of GDP. While it is a little more cumbersome to give a digital signature than to sign a piece of paper, it is understandable to everyone that digital signature is much more effective than the normal signature given on the site. The same shall apply to documents signed by the Prime Minister. One might say, yes, that it takes more time than signing with a pen, but let us add to it the fact that documents signed in this way in the government reach the addressee in almost a moment's time, there is no need for secretarial assistance in transporting them and there is no need for postal pigeons. This, however, is a huge saving. The question now is why we still have not been able to harmonise the rules in the European Union to the extent that it is possible to talk about cross-border digital services, a single European Union digital market. I think that the vast majority of the rules of the European Union serve the interests of all the people of the Union. Yes, from time to time, some strange rules have come into the act, but have they not come from this very Riigikogu? What's bad, it has to be done again.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U22	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I do not share your joy at youth unemployment below the average in Estonia. That's for two reasons. This figure is lower mainly because very many young people who did not find work in Estonia have left. You may also know that in 2012 nearly 80,000 people received their income outside Estonia, including a large number of young people. Another fact is that young people do not want to be officially unemployed, but rather live on their parents'wallets. However, I consider it very important that the Estonian state fights youth unemployment much more actively so that young people can have their first work experience here and that they can continue their working life here, so that they do not have to leave. That is why I ask you very specifically: what has the Estonian state done or is planning to do to help young people get a job?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U24	I admire, of course, your ability to look to the future pessimisticly and also to find perspectives in statistics that allow the present to be well portrayed as black. I prefer to look at things the way they are. First of all, the statement that the people of Estonia, including young people, do not want to register as unemployed and are ashamed of it, and therefore Estonian statistics on unemployment, including youth unemployment, do not match those of the European Union. I do not agree with this argument. To some extent, of course, there may be people for whom your claim is true, but the trend is certainly the opposite. Compared to boomtime and pre-booming years, we have significantly reduced the share of people who are currently inactive. Our employment is at the boom-time level, while unemployment is still almost twice as high as it was at the time of the economic boom. This means that people have started to register more as unemployed. Why are they doing this? The reasons are not to be looked for in an internal struggle, whether they are ashamed of unemployment or not ashamed. Registration is just economic for them. Our unemployment fund is currently working effectively, which is not comparable to the times of the previous crisis in Russia and Asia. The Unemployment Insurance Fund provides practical and important assistance to a large number of unemployed people. A lot of people, including young people, have found work because of the good work done by the unemployment fund. People are not ashamed that they have become unemployed. I'm talking about the bigger picture again, not some individuals. The system's working. The system can always be improved, and that is what we are doing, but we still have no reason for black depression. We are the sixth or seventh highest rate of youth unemployment in the European Union. If we should become blackhearted about youth unemployment and lose our practical sense, what should others who are 27 or 28 should do?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U25	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U26	Honourable waitress! I would like to hear a small overview of Estonia's good ideas, ideas and initiatives in the field of immigration policy in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U27	All the Member States of the European Union and the European Union as a whole expect young and talented people. The hunt to attract more talent has been going on for a long time. Estonia has also taken certain steps to this end. The Honourable Riigikogu has softened the relevant law and thanks to this it is now easier for young talented foreigners who have come to study at the University of Estonia to stay and work here. The processing of work permits is now much easier in Estonia than in the old law. So we have made some progress. This is the positive side of immigration, the highly educated specialists that all countries want to have. In Estonia, even more attention should be paid to the fact that young people who have graduated from this university would also like to stay here to defend their degree. World practice shows that higher education can be a service in its own right, which brings money to the country, but much more benefits come from young people who have received higher education and wish to apply the knowledge they have acquired in the same country. Immigration also has the other half involved in illegal immigration. The subject is relevant especially now, when very tragic boat accidents have occurred near Lampedusa and hundreds of people have drowned. Unfortunately, when we talk about what happened, we have to use plural. This is not an exceptional case, but boat crashes near Lampedusa have become commonplace. The European Union must certainly increase its common border guard capabilities, but this is probably not enough. We should do more with the countries of origin of immigration, the main countries from which illegal immigrants want to come to Europe. This is already a policy at European Union level. For example, there are plenty of illegal immigrants coming to the island of Malta from Somalia, but it is very difficult for Malta to find effective contacts, essentially in a war zone. For the European Union, this should be an appropriate task, while for a small Member State it is a relatively difficult undertaking. These were just two examples, but there are more and more. I repeat that the European Union should deal much more with the countries of origin of illegal immigration than it has done so far. Certainly, the European Union should also be more concerned with criminal structures that mediate illegal immigration. The examples that Estonia has taken from illegal immigration have been organised crime. Trafficking in human beings has been a criminal activity, organised for some time. It is common knowledge that illegal immigrants pay for groups to become a European Union. To get somewhere near the coast, every person has to go out for $4,000. This type of crime must certainly be dealt with much more seriously by the European Union. It seems to me that we should look at our migration policy more broadly and find solutions to certain specific cases. Recently, a colleague of mine told a story about a Syrian family. It was a neurosurgeon and his wife and two children. A neurosurgeon decided to flee Syria by car because he was convinced that he and his family would die in their homeland. He managed to get to Turkey. From Turkey he flew to Egypt. In Egypt, he turned to a representative of a country of the European Union and applied for asylum. He was said no. Next, the neurosurgeon and his family went to Libya, paid $4,000 for each member of the family and got a boat. Boats are usually old vessels that are stuffed with people. With a boat like this, he got near the coast of Lampedusa, but his boat was sunk. The neurosurgeon escaped, he is now in the European Union, but his family drowned. However, we know that there is a huge shortage of specialist doctors in a large number of countries in the European Union. Why are our regulations like this? Illegal immigrants become legal immigrants as soon as they have to be picked up from the sea, but they are not welcome and are illegal when they complain about their concerns at a European Union mission. Obviously, we have not done everything at European Union level to treat humanely people who are at risk of death at home. There is probably room for improvement in other countries of the European Union, but also in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U28	Thank you. Please, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U29	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good Prime Minister! When we held the same debate here a year ago, the big question was how much money we will receive from Europe in the coming period for agricultural direct payments and how much for the rural development plan. These fights have been fought today. We also know that the European Commission has made it possible, in a very flexible way, to move money within the country from one pillar to another, i.e. to reduce direct payments and increase the amounts for the rural development plan. Indeed, with the help of the rural development plan, we can determine our own wishes and outputs from within the country, all in order to ensure that our rural and agricultural affairs do well. We know that this rural development plan is being made for Estonia at the Ministry of Agriculture. Do you think that we have given sufficient thought to innovation and science in this development plan so that, when the money from Europe ends, we are sustainable in agriculture and in the rural sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U30	Thank you. Rural development funds from the rural development plan as well as direct payments per hectare of agriculture support. The negotiations on direct payments were particularly intense. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania were, of course, intended to be treated unequally from our point of view in comparison with other Member States of the European Union. Therefore, increasing direct payments to agriculture was one of our country's priorities. These negotiations were concluded relatively successfully for Estonia; we will receive twice as much sum of the amount of direct payments per hectare as we received in the previous budget period. However, until the last round of negotiations at the Council, the absolute value of Estonia's direct payments in agriculture remained unexploited in 2014 and 2015. By 2020, there will be some harmonisation and quite a good pace; Estonia did not have any problems with this period, but in the next year and the next year, the solution that doubled subsidies and was already a better solution for Estonia would still be relatively unacceptable. We've been met. We needed an additional EUR 15 million to 2014. Direct aid for 2008 would not decrease in absolute values. However, we received EUR 50 million instead of EUR 15. It is quite common in the negotiations that in the very last rounds there is no more talk of equal treatment, because very many have some specific issues. In this case, a single overall amount is simply given and it is said that if it is not satisfied, an agreement will not be reached. Of course, no one wants to take that responsibility for not reaching an agreement. In our case, the lump sum was relatively pleasant. There's always a certain dissatisfaction, but then you look at your neighbors and you feel that we've been treated equally. So there was no thorn. However, in the case of the EUR 50 million added to rural development, this was also foreseen, not only for these EUR 50 million, but for the rural development plan in general, that 15% of these funds could be converted into direct payments for agriculture and that the funds for direct payments for agriculture could also be used for rural development. Whether we want to move these funds or not, we will decide for ourselves. The rural development plan is currently being prepared, with a large number of interested parties involved. I hope that the development plan that is being prepared will satisfy most of them. It certainly does not satisfy everyone, because conflicts are relatively specific. They relate, for example, to organic production. The question is whether organic production is where the land is simply fed, or whether in the case of organic production production production, production must also be indicated in order to benefit from the common budget of the European Union. This is a very important debate and I believe that there will probably be a consensus agreement on this issue in Estonia. However, in the context of Europe, I dare say that we have almost reached the maximum possible level. Of course, more could have been achieved, but what Estonia achieved was already a good result. I would very much like Estonian farmers and non-farmers who receive funds from the rural development plan to reach a friendly agreement with each other so that it does not happen that it is generally a good thing, but everyone is fighting and nobody is happy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U31	Thank you. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U32	Thank you. Prime Minister! One of the fundamental principles of the European Union is the free movement of goods, i.e. a functioning internal market. However, entrepreneurs often complain that countries tend to favour national companies through administrative measures. What is your understanding of how the European internal market could work better?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U33	Thank you. I would not complain very much about the obstacles to the free movement of goods; rather, there are still problems with the free movement of services. We can say that in Europe, capital moves almost without hindrance and, in most cases, people can also move freely. While protectionism does not exist to a considerable extent for goods within the European Union, the case for services is much more complicated. In a very large number of countries, there is a very long list of occupations that can only be held by a national of a Member State. Of course, we are interested in allowing both services and goods to move freely within the European Union. Obstacles to the free movement of services and goods must be removed. I was talking about administrative obstacles, but it is equally important to build connections. For goods and services to move freely within the European Single Market, there must be links. Estonia is not in the best position in terms of connectivity compared to other Member States of the European Union. As we know, Estonia's energy market, as well as Latvia and Lithuania's energy market, has been an isolated island in the European Union for a long time. We have not had enough connections with the energy markets of other Member States of the European Union in order to say that Estonia is connected to other markets. So far, we have EstLink 1. When EstLink 2 starts working in 2014, we already have a 1000-megawatt connection with Finland. A cable is being built between Lithuania and Sweden (it is only 700 megawatts, but it is still a considerable change), with an energy connection between Lithuania and Poland being planned. We are also planning to build a third high-voltage line between Estonia and Latvia with money from the new European Union budget. This means that we can say very soon that the Estonian energy market is connected to the European Union's single energy market. In comparison, if the capacity of the cables connecting us to Finland is 1000 megawatts, the minimum consumption of electricity in Estonia on a warm summer night is 400 megawatts and the maximum consumption on a cold winter day does not reach more than 1600 megawatts. In terms of energy security, very important steps have been taken in recent years. Once again, I would like to stress that we have been able to take these steps thanks to the help of the European Union. We have received considerable resources from the European Union to build energy links with other countries. Now I'm talking about Rail Baltic. Many Estonian entrepreneurs are able to compete very successfully on distant markets in Central Asia (they are not very many, but some are). For example, Repo Factories sell a record that makes furniture, and they are completely competitive. They are also successful in the Finnish and Swedish markets, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. But the competitiveness of companies that produce bulk goods disappears around the German border. It disappears because we need to transport goods by car to Europe, while road transport is more expensive than rail transport. Railways ensure the competitiveness of Estonian bulk goods even in Central Asia, but the impact of road transport can also be seen in the fact that the prices of many goods in Tallinn are higher than they are in Berlin or Paris, for example. Of course, greedy merchants can always be blamed, but I think the main reason is not the specific nature of our merchants (I think this is not really the case) nor the small size of the market, but the high transport costs. Therefore, Rail Baltic is not only an important political project for us, but also an important economic project. If during the last 20 years the Estonian state has been integrated with various international organisations and institutions, it is now time to pay more attention to the physical interconnection of our infrastructure with that of Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U34	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U35	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister, first of all, thank you very much for your review. Optimism is a good quality that will certainly speed up the resolution of many problems, but it is worth being realistic in matters of state life. Realism means that young people leave Estonia, with many of them not coming back. If they only went to study, they would come back and contribute to the country of Estonia, of course it would be nice. You quoted your colleague, the Prime Minister of Finland. Although Finland does not receive money from the European Union for the Youth Guarantee, they have found funds from their national budget to implement the Youth Guarantee. If a child falls out of school and doesn't go to work or study there, the state will find him himself. The issue is not that our unemployment fund is not working well. He really works well, but people turn there themselves. Don't you think that Estonia should change it and start looking for these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U36	Why do you give me such views? I really don't understand that. From this same speaker, too, I have previously confirmed that we too are working on the Youth Guarantee. We reached the Youth Guarantee long before it became a European policy, and it was thanks to Jyrki Katais. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U37	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U38	Thank you. I have a simple question. The Government of the Republic will not be able to go beyond or around the fact that it will soon have to propose a new Commissioner for the European Commission. Is Andrus Ansip willing to be a candidate for this position?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U39	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U40	Thank you. Siim Kallas is currently active in the European Commission and his term of office will not end anytime soon. So the question is not very topical.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Regional policy is an important issue for Europe. In Europe, there is a trend towards macro-regional development; it is important for us to have a macro-region in the Baltic Sea. You didn't mention your presentation on this subject. That is why I am asking whether the Baltic Sea Strategy is merely one of the many European Union policies for the government, or whether it is, to some extent, a priority, and if so, in what way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U42	Thank you. Baltic Sea policy is, of course, one of the many European Union policies, but at the same time it is one of the most important for Estonia. The Baltic Sea Strategy is important to us, above all, because our economy has been integrated with the Nordic and other Baltic economies since it regained independence. We can say that by now the Estonian economy is quite well interlinked with the Nordic and other Baltic economies. It has been almost 70% of all foreign direct investments in the Estonian economy came from two countries: Sweden and Finland. At the moment, we can be quite certain that two thirds of all foreign direct investments in Estonia have come from the Nordic countries, because after Sweden and Finland, the volume of foreign direct investments is Norway. The economies are very closely embedded. Our biggest export partners are right here. Sweden will take the lead, Finland will take the lead, but our southern neighbours Latvia and Lithuania will also play a significant role. Foreign direct investments made outside Estonia are mainly made in Latvia and Lithuania. Therefore, our economies are indeed intertwined. I dare say the same about science. Scientists work very closely together here in the Nordic-Baltic region, especially in the Nordic direction. It is therefore crucial to further develop these very good relations. When I spoke for quite a while earlier about the European Union's single digital market, I was, of course, convinced that by 2015, we would create this single digital market in the European Union. But we should definitely approach the other side, which is what I referred to in my answers. We should do more regional cooperation with the Baltic Sea countries. I'm coming back to the digital world. Yes, on the initiative of Finland, we are already in the process of introducing a common data exchange layer between the two countries, such as the X-Road in Estonia. In various areas, many people are working to implement the Baltic Sea Strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U43	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Estonia's success stories have been set as an example in Europe. However, much has been said recently about the fact that the Estonian state has fallen into some sort of stagnation ring. Despite these success stories, the National Audit Office has made a rather destructive assessment of the state of Estonia. He has suggested in his review that Estonia should definitely do something big to get out of this ring. What could be three important reforms for Estonia to regain its success, set an example in the European Union, and also for its people to be satisfied?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U45	Thank you. I don't agree with the starting point at all. You indicated that according to the opinion of the National Audit Office, we are somewhere in the mud and are supposed to get out of there. This definition is not appropriate. Estonia is certainly not satisfied with its 1% growth, but if you look at what is happening in the rest of Europe, this 1% growth is clearly among the fastest economic growth in the European Union. Therefore, we should not succumb to the fact that we are some kind of wuss and incompetent, that we are falling downward and unable to do anything. It was about youth unemployment. You can also talk about unemployment. Yes, unemployment in Estonia is considerably lower than on average in the European Union. I have not read this material of the National Audit Office; I am only familiar with it as much as I have observed on-line media. I haven't even been able to read today's papers as much as I've been watching on-line versions, so much as I know to comment on that. I feel kind of sad in my soul. We have a new Auditor General, but we're talking like we used to. This talk, at least what has been amplified in the media, is unfortunately wrong. That's too bad. I cannot make a general assessment, but what has reached the headlines is unfortunately not true. For example, it has been said that our pension system is unsustainable. What kind of discovery is that? I do not know what authority this is, with which the Auditor General or whoever from the National Audit Office, Mr Olgo apparently takes and binds our social tax and pensions. Yes, we have a part of the social tax intended to pay pensions. However, I believe that all members of the Riigikogu know that every one of the 101 knows perfectly that in order to pay pensions according to the index, an addition must be found to the other revenue of the state budget. This has been the case and will continue to be the case in the future. There is also one such suggestion in this same material of the thickness of the National Audit Office: in order to ensure sustainability, pensions should be reduced to 200 euros or social tax increased by 10%. Well, thank you. Neither of these proposals suits me, and I'm sure neither do you. I can't understand the urge to place an equal mark between social tax and pensions. Why is this done when it is known to everyone that we have always found funds from other revenue in the budget in order to pay out pensions? When we had good years, boom years, we created a special pension fund that did not have any legal content to pay out pensions to the extent prescribed in worse times. We're doing this, and I don't see any tragedy here. Now, the Auditor General comes and says, rather than the Auditor General, but it was stated in this material that we have avoided decisions and have not made them, that it is only until 2026 that it is known how old they retire and what the retirement age is. Guys, when did we make this decision? That was only recently, in 2009. Can we make a decision now about the retirement age in 2035? Several experts have suggested that it should be 67 years by then. Of course we could do that. But how much do we base this decision on our instincts and faith and how much do we expect, this question will not be answered. I am saying that it is not possible for us to predict exactly what the life expectancy of people in 2035 is then what employment is and what the real age of people leaving the labour market is. I do not think that we are in such a hurry that the age at which a person could retire in 2035 should already be fixed. Well, the 200 euro story and the saying that 10% should be added to social tax are not going at all. Or we could take the other headlines that came up in this connection. But this topic will come to your agenda on Wednesday, it is not the issue of today's agenda. It is claimed that Estonia's GDP per capita has not yet reached its pre-crisis level. Well, it is, isn't it? I base this argument on Eurostat data. Estonia's GDP per capita in 2007 was 69.7% of the European Union average and 70.3% in 2012. 70.3 is larger, not significantly, but obviously larger than 69.7. It is also claimed that even Lithuania has missed us in purchasing power. Read this review, it probably says exactly the same thing in the headlines of online media publications that they passed us last year. I look at Eurostat data. In Estonia, as you remember, GDP per capita is 70.3% of the European Union average, in Lithuania 69.9%. 69,9 is obviously less than 70,3. It has to be concluded that Lithuania did not pass us by, it did not go by in any way, but the headlines were already born. I believe that this material is certainly forward-looking, as the Auditor General planned it, but these first newspaper headlines, unfortunately, are based on incorrect information. I am only talking about newspaper headlines resulting from interviews with people working at the National Audit Office. It is a pity that this material has already become partially obsolete at the time of publication. It was known to everyone that Eurostat corrected Estonia's GDP retroactively over a sufficiently long period of time; these adjustments were already made at national level for a long time. On 30 October Eurostat did so, but yesterday the headlines appeared in the newspapers, which did not take into account Eurostat's figures of 30 October. That's too bad. It is a pity that far-reaching political conclusions are drawn from outdated data. But I promise that, like the previous documents of the National Audit Office, I will read this review very carefully. I am convinced that we will find a lot that will help to improve the governance of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U46	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U47	I'm sorry! Before the Prime Minister starts answering, I would remind you that we are now discussing European Union policy. Please, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U48	Thank you. The Auditor General has also said that the state is successful, but the welfare does not reach the people, unfortunately. When it comes to whether or not the pension system is sustainable, it must be remembered that the number of our taxpayers is falling. Estonian unemployment is lower than the European Union average because our people find jobs in Finland, Norway and elsewhere. But now from the Youth Guarantee. You said that it has applied in Estonia in the same way as in Finland. What is the Estonian state doing to find students who have dropped out of primary school and to get them back into the school system or to enable them to acquire a profession?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U49	I can only repeat what I said before. We learned much earlier about the good experience of the Finnish Youth Guarantee than this experience became a policy of the European Union. Our Ministry of Social Affairs is currently actively developing Estonia's own model of Youth Guarantee. I believe that this model will be as good as in Finland and that once this model will be implemented in Estonia, the results will be just as good. It's the job.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U50	Thank you. Please, Ene Ergma!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U51	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, thank you very much for your presentation. You are known to be one of the Prime Minister in office for the longest time in the European Union, and therefore you can certainly appreciate what has been the greatest success and the greatest failure in European Union policy during this period.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U52	Success is relatively easy to call. This was already answered when the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded last year. The European Union's greatest success has been peace-building in Europe. I am convinced that the most important aspect for the people of Estonia was the peace-building aspect when they made their decision in the referendum. The people of Estonia know that the European Union is not NATO, it is not a defence organisation, but it is also known that when the European Union was created, peace was the main goal. Our people will remember the consequences of the last war. The last Russian troops left Estonia only in 1994. I am pretty sure that most of the people who decided to support Estonia's accession to the European Union were based on the principle of peace. Failure, at least one and one, is, of course, more difficult to highlight. This crisis certainly drew attention to the remnant or to what has been done wrong. In the European Union, there are very good rules for budgetary discipline in the Member States, but unfortunately, the crisis has shown that the rules were not respected or, on many occasions, were not respected. The Stability and Growth Pact is a very good and right thing, but it must be remembered with sadness that there was a time when there were only two Member States in the European Union that had not been the subject of an excessive deficit procedure. The two countries were Sweden and Estonia. In my opinion, failure is that, while we have managed to establish good and correct rules, we have failed to follow them. However, I refer once again to my Finnish colleague, who has said that very many decisions have been taken at European Union level and, if all of them were to be met, in three years' time, the rating of all the Member States of the European Union could be at AAA level.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U53	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U54	Thank you. Prime Minister! You spoke in your presentation about many important matters relating to the better functioning of the single market, but little was heard of how you, as the head of government, have interacted with the debates held in Europe about the future vision. Talk, please, a little bit about the government's understanding of what the borders of the European Union should be in the future. How do you think that the European Union could be better managed in order to ensure the peace you have spoken about and certainly the well-being of European citizens, but also to overcome the current rather strong democratic deficit that we see at European level and which the last crisis has increased rather than reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U55	Thank you. I do not want to agree with this increase in the democratic deficit. I argue that, thanks to the Treaty of Lisbon, there is much more involvement and democracy at European Union level than before the signing of this Treaty. Estonia's European Union policy has been confirmed here in the Riigikogu and the government has been based on it. This policy will be implemented in 2011‐2015. It is the main policy orientations of the Estonian European Union that the government relies on indistinguishably on the policies of the Riigikogu. In the final sentence of my speech, I pointed out what I think the European Union should be. A strong European Union is in our interest, and that is what we are striving for. We have made a great many decisions that will help make the European Union stronger and more united, and if we can put all these decisions into practice, I am sure that the European Union will become stronger. The decision on the borders of the European Union was taken in relatively long time ago; I do not have to do it again. All European countries have the right to join the European Union if they meet the prescribed criteria. When one country or another could reach it, it will be much harder for me to say than for those countries that are striving for the European Union. Estonia was able to meet all the criteria in a relatively short period of time, even though we believe that this was a long time and that soon we have been a member of the European Union for ten years. At the same time, we know that there are countries that are striving to become members of the European Union and with which negotiations were opened long before negotiations were started with us, but when a positive outcome will be achieved, no one can now predict this. I am not trying to be very original if I can assure you that this is, above all, a matter of fulfilling the conditions. If countries that want to join the European Union go through the stage of reform and fulfil all the conditions for accession, they are welcome to join the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U56	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U57	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! I'm coming back to retirement. In 2013, pensions will have to be paid EUR 1.67 billion, i.e. 22% of the budget. Between 2014 and 2017, pensions will require €6.5 billion. Researchers say that EUR 474 million will be needed to cover the budget gap in 2017. How do you see the possibility of increasing pensions in the coming years and where do these funds come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U58	Thank you. Resources come from tax revenues and pensions rise according to the index. As long as this government is in office, that will be the case. I don't have any pessimism in this regard. I have a realistic view of the possibilities of paying pensions in Estonia. This view clearly confirms that pensions will continue to be paid to the extent permitted in the future. I do not think that this is a matter for the European Union. But let it be repeated once again that the claims which some opposition politician flew when the budget was transferred, that the government had nothing to do with pensions, that pensions come from the index, have now received a certain resonance from the National Audit Office. They're not really coming from the index. If we were able to find an index somewhere that gives us money, we would already put ten or a hundred times the index in order to make sure that there is a lot of money, so that we could miss Luxembourg right now. But, unfortunately, money doesn't come from the index, so we have to make money right here on earth. I am now quoting Margaret Thatcher, who has said that money does not fall out of the sky on its lap, the money that the government can distribute must be collected from taxpayers. It's as simple as that. The budget is not only made up of the pension part of the social tax; the budget also has a large number of other sources of income. For many years, we have been using these other sources of income to pay the promised pension for all pensioners. There will be no concessions in this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U59	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U60	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! As we know, the countries of the European Union have different tax policies. Can you say that the European Union is not moving towards harmonisation of tax policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U61	This is not a yes/no issue, so it cannot be answered that it moves or does not move. Direct taxes are the exclusive competence of the Member States and no harmonisation is foreseen here. At the same time, on some issues, we are also interested in having some more common understanding. For example, the creation of the 29th tax system, in addition to the 28 Member States' tax system, could now be a reasonable way out for large companies operating in a large number of European Union countries. Direct taxes are the exclusive competence of the Member States, with the European Union having greater competence in indirect taxes. For example, in the case of the VAT rate, the Member State cannot arbitrarily grant exemptions, all exceptions must be in line with European Union regulations and the limits have been set, there is a maximum VAT threshold at European Union level. We can say that in some parts of the European Union taxes are harmonised. But that's not a yes/no question, a black and white question. If you wanted to know if everyone would ever have the same taxes, then no, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U62	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I would like to ask for a chair of speech from the Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Arto Asa.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister! Honourable guests! Ladies and gentlemen, On September 14, 2003, the Estonian people said their strong 'yes' to accession to the European Union. Ten years later, it can be said with a rather calm heart that we have established ourselves with dignity in the core of the European Union. We are one of the most integrated Member States, we are known and valued. Our innovative, flexible and well-functioning country is a model for many. Therefore, I think that we should focus more on the role of the European Union in the world, both now and in the future, and less on whether we are really known in Brussels. Yes, they do. One of the most important trends in the past period is the European Union's trade negotiations with major global economies: the United States, Canada, Japan. Negotiations are also under way with China to create a level playing field for both access to and protection of investment markets. Of course, bilateral free trade talks with the United States have been relaunched with the greatest economic and symbolic significance. The European Union and the United States are two of the most important global markets. They produce almost half of the world's GDP in total, and bilateral trade accounts for a third of world trade. It is clear that transatlantic free trade would create the most powerful economic space in the world. According to the influential US academician and opinion leader Zbigniew Brzezinski, the trade agreement between the European Union and the United States can halt the western decline, revive transatlantic relations and balance China's influence. He has confirmed that it will create new vitality, greater security and more cohesion in the West. The Free Trade Agreement (FTA) was already sought in the 1990s and lastly in 2006. Unfortunately, negotiations failed. The talks reopened on 13 February this year are expected to be concluded within two years. The European Union has a common commercial policy, which means that there is a harmonised approach at international level, which is presented by the European Commission. There is a big difference between a delegation representing 1.3 million or 500 million inhabitants sitting at the negotiating table in Beijing or Washington. It is in Estonia's interests to have a strong and united Europe that is competitive on the international stage. Trade liberalisation offers opportunities for the spread of new ideas, technologies and services, which in turn contribute to economic growth, provide opportunities for new investment and job creation. When we talk about the economy and global trends, we cannot miss energy. New technologies and the introduction of unconventional energy sources are rapidly changing the international energy market. This brings together other geopolitical shifts sooner or later. In fact, what is happening in the United States has been called a new industrial revolution: an importer of energy carriers has become an exporting country. Is the European Union prepared for such changes? Are we united, fast and strong enough to contribute to such decisions? In order to increase energy security and security of supply, it is important to bring new sources of supply to the market as soon as possible and to open up the gas market to competition, as well as to create electricity interconnections and capacity connecting markets. Toomas Hendrik Ilves said well on 28 May in the Lithuanian Parliament: 'It is not sustainable and safe for the whole region if one of us should buy in nearly 90% of the electricity in some months, of which almost half would come from a monopoly outside the European Union. ' Unfortunately, in the European energy policy, we still see a high degree of fragmentation and a situation where protectionist and day-to-day decisions prevail over the need for long-term strategy and regional cooperation. Unfortunately, as winners, regions and businesses outside the European Union emerge from this situation. Good friends! The well-known saying is that the rolling stone does not moss. Fortunately, despite the difficulties, European integration does not stop. This year, the European Union received a new 28 Member States. Here, our sincere congratulations to the people of Croatia! Latvia's efforts are crowned by its accession to the euro area on 1 January 2014. This spring, the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs made a visit to Serbia and Macedonia to learn more about the specificities of the Western Balkans region and to encourage these countries to continue the necessary reforms. It is impossible to overestimate the positive impact of the process of accession to the European Union on the peaceful development of this region. Let us not forget that the European Union has always had a mission of peace and security, the success of which was recognised by the Nobel Peace Prize awarded to the European Union last year. At the end of November, the Eastern Partnership Summit will take place in Vilnius, which is undoubtedly the top geopolitical event of this autumn. We look forward to an ambitious outcome from the summit, which would mark the start of a new period of relations between the European Union and its Eastern partners. The conclusion of agreements with Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova is not just a legal formality; this is the result of the strategic choice of countries which cultural, economic and value space is intended to be part of. The former President of the European Parliament, Pat Cox, who is currently actively engaged in relations between the European Union and Ukraine, gave some thought-provoking examples in Vilnius last week. While in the mid-1990s the economic performance of Poland and Ukraine was almost equal, Poland's GDP now exceeds Ukraine more than two and a half times. Similar developmental gaps occur in infant mortality and life expectancy. Only the blind do not notice the positive impact of the European Union on the development of society and the practical livelihood of people. So the Vilnius Summit does not decide on the issue of the Ukrainian political elite, but above all the future of 45 million ordinary Ukrainians is at stake. Let us now turn to the internal processes of the European Union. The most important instrument of policy management is undoubtedly the budget of the eurobürocratic language MFF. I hope that the European Parliament will be able to reach a final agreement within this year at the February Council. It is not only the reputation of the European Parliament that is at risk, but billions of euros in frozen investments. Estonia achieved a good result in the negotiations on the next budgetary framework for the European Union. The money is EUR 5.89 billion for seven years. Although we often find the changes in the European Union's budget too slow, there are certain trends that can be welcomed. Compared to the current budget, R &amp; D funding will increase and there will be separate funding for the creation of trans-European connections. For Estonia, this means Rail Baltic and a possible LNG terminal with an Estonian-Finnish gas pipeline Balticconnector. The share of EU agricultural subsidies in the new budget is decreasing, while payments to farmers in the Member States and conditions of competition converge. It's not so little. Thanks to sound finances, Estonia will be able to use the European Union's resources to make the living and business environment here more attractive and to continue with structural reforms. Learning from the experience of the past period, the government, together with the Riigikogu, has confirmed national priorities for the following period: quality education, high employment, competitive economy, clean natural environment and decent transport opportunities. There is a frightening legend in the public that Estonia will be hit by a disaster in the next budget period of the European Union starting in 2020. Poor and incompetent Estonian euro banknotes will be turned off, followed by decline and distress. In fact, we have two possible scenarios before us. According to the first one, Estonia will be so wealthy in 2020 that it will no longer need the European Union's aid. In the second scenario, which is forecasting lower wealth, we are still receiving euro money. There's no reason to panic. It is certainly not our aim to remain a net beneficiary country in the European Union. However, we must be proactive and invest European Union funds in a sustainable way. We must avoid creating new fixed costs and temporary benefits. Good listeners! The European Union's finances and banking are currently undergoing important reforms. Since the onset of the crisis, the economic organisation of the euro area has undergone a major innovation aimed at ensuring that financial institutions, governments and the private sector do not overload their credit burden due to overly optimistic assumptions. The basis for achieving the common objectives is the certainty that agreements will indeed be implemented. Strictly conditional crisis assistance mechanisms have been put in place to help those who are distressed and to ensure the stability of the euro area. Monitoring of compliance with agreed rules has been strengthened to a large extent, including with regard to the limit on structural budget deficits, the reduction of the fiscal balance requirement in law and the excessive deficit procedures. The coordination of fiscal policies in the euro area has been strengthened in order to identify problems and respond as early as possible. This year, the draft Estonian state budget was also submitted to the European Commission for the first time. The Committee on European Union Affairs has supported the creation of a European Union Banking Union, which has also been referred to as the largest reform of the financial sector in the European Union in the last ten years. As a first step, in the second half of 2014, the European Central Bank will launch a single supervision of all euro area banks. We have supported the establishment of a resolution mechanism to address bank insolvency problems. The SRM will ensure greater stability of the financial system and protection of depositors. As a result, taxpayers' money should not be used to solve bank problems in the future. The plan is to create a single European Union resolution fund where banks will make contributions. One of the founding fathers of the European Union, Robert Schuman, has said: 'Europe is not created overnight or in a single motion. Europe is born through concrete actions that first create real cohesion. ' It is precisely these institutions that strengthen cohesion that have been created in Europe since the crisis. It makes us stronger. In addition to sound public finances, Estonia has the second strong trademark of information technology in the world. It is therefore natural that Estonian representatives in Europe play a very prominent role as advocates of the digital single market. There is currently no functioning digital single market in the European Union. In many areas of e-services and technological developments, the European Union is far behind the best practice in the world, not to mention internal fragmentation. This is why things are being carried out in Europe too bureaucraticly, in a way that wastes paper and people's time and pollutes the environment. In the interests of the Digital Single Market, it is necessary, as a matter of priority, to create the possibility of identifying individuals electronically, setting security standards and setting up cross-border data exchange platforms. In particular, the failure to break public attitudes hinders progress in Europe. At the same time, digital services have huge economic potential. Estonia has success stories that can be copied throughout Europe. What is the role of the Estonian Parliament in influencing European affairs? During the ten years, the roles and competences of the various Estonian institutions have largely settled. I am proud to confirm that the role of the Estonian Parliament in shaping the policies of the European Union is greater than that of the parliaments of most other countries. It is unthinkable for members of the government or officials to present positions in Brussels which have not been given a mandate before the Riigikogu plenary session or the European Union Affairs Commission. Parliament's own role and competences have also improved, and the last example is the first parliamentary subsidiarity check. There has been more world-view debate on Estonia's positions, which discusses the domestic impact of decisions. In seven months' time, the elections to the European Parliament, third to Estonia, will be held in general order for the eighth time in the history of the European Union since 1979. We have all heard many people say that they are not interested in Estonian politics and elections, because this does not concern them. We understand how foolish such a claim is, because even the most apolitical person in the world cannot "log out" of the sphere of influence of political decisions. However, there is also this attitude among politicians when it comes to European issues and decisions to be taken in Brussels or Strasbourg. No, friends, the subjects of the European Union are not foreign policy. Events in Brussels affect the people of Estonia as directly as the decisions taken in this very Chamber. I very much hope that we will be able to discuss European issues during the elections to the European Parliament, rather than rushing ahead with national ambitions. The content of the campaign must dominate the format, not the other way around. In many European countries, the elections are being won by populist and anti-European forces; the elections are becoming a protestation. Estonia has a positive chance of distinguishing in this area, because as one of the few European Union countries, the trust of people in the European Union and its institutions has not diminished in Estonia. There are many issues to discuss with a European dimension. What should be the new structure of the European Union budget? Does the European Union need a new Treaty? How far are we prepared to go with federalisation? What should be the European Union's independent defence capacity? How to make Europe the world's most business-friendly continent? The priorities of the Estonian Presidency in 2018 also deserve a substantive discussion. Finally. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, can you explain to your constituents, Uncle Unole or neighbour Nadyja, what are the following abbreviations, acronyms, which are involved in day-to-day business in the European Union: two-pack, six-pack, ESM, EMU, SSM, SRM, CFP, TEN-T, TEN-E, SES II+, COSAC, FAC? I don't think so. However, this kind of eurobureaucratic speech dominates most of the European Union's documents and messages. It's strange! Did you know that there are 34000 legal acts in force in the European Union? Did you know that every year they have about 1,000 more pieces of legislation? It's scary! The European Union must not become merely a playroom for bureaucrats, lawyers and interpreters; there must also be room for ordinary citizens. The great man of the European Union, Jean Monnet, has said: 'We unite people, not states. " I would add that simplicity is a charm. It is very difficult to find support for an idea or initiative that people do not understand. At one point, the functioning of the European Union may become too distant and complex for people. This, in turn, creates ground for populist and extreme messages. It's a serious risk. Therefore, let us be demanding and attentive to new legislative initiatives of the European Union, new regulations and freaks. I will finish by saying to Sir Winston Churchill: 'All great things are simple and many of them can be expressed in one word: freedom, justice, honor, duty, mercy, hope. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U64	Thank you very much. We have a few questions. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U65	Thank you very much. Thank you to Arto Asa for a thorough and intelligent presentation. My question is not so much about your presentation, but more about the Prime Minister's thoughts on immigration issues. Do you agree, like the Prime Minister, that Estonia must also address this issue in greater depth and that we should look at migration policy more broadly? How do you understand that, and do you think it's necessary to deal with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U66	Thank you. This issue certainly needs to be dealt with in greater depth and looked at more widely. At present, we in Estonia are probably not aware of this problem, which is mainly affected by southern Europe and in some ways also by Scandinavia. Until now, illegal immigrants have not wanted to come to Estonia on a massive basis. At one point, however, when our environment improves and our standard of living increases, this pressure is greatly increasing. Our climate, yes, doesn't change for the better, but the standard of living is bound to rise. I think it is worth paying attention now, because in ten years these problems can certainly reach our home yard or, at least, our border.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U67	Urmas Glass, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I join the Prime Minister's assessment of the work of our Parliament's Committee on European Union Affairs and also personally of your work. But your presentation said that there would be elections to the European Parliament. I hope, in the same way, that the electoral campaign will be substantive and European. However, my question is about the current members of the European Parliament elected from Estonia. As Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs, how do you appreciate the Commission's cooperation with Members of the European Parliament and will you take the liberty of evaluating the work of our representatives in the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U69	Thank you. The final assessment of the work of politicians will be made by voters. But at the level of individuals, this cooperation is perfectly normal. There's not much tension between us, we're communicating freely. All Members of the European Parliament will always be able to participate in the work of the Committee on European Union Affairs and will have our materials available to them. Personally, of course, I would like to hear more of the speeches and views of the Members of the European Parliament on European issues. At least some of them are very active in commenting on internal policies. We know that the more radical or sharper the position, the more the media. But we hear quite a few of their views on Europe's future and problems. I'm sure we'll learn as a young country. We have only six representatives in Europe. Hopefully, in the future, we will be convinced that these are our best representatives who will be able to explain the problems that are being discussed in Brussels and Strasbourg, also to the people of Estonia. I think that there should be more of a European issue in our debates.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U70	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Prime Minister, in answer to my question about Euro-bureaucracy, thought that there was nothing terrible about it and that it was great to have common rules in Europe, the more there are common rules, the better we will live and understand each other and we will be able to work together. You mentioned that there are 34000 pieces of legislation in the European Union. It is still a huge number, it takes a lot of paper, and these legislation sets a lot of rules. But do you think Euro bureaucracy is developing and moving in the right direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U72	Thank you. There is no one answer. I certainly agree with the Prime Minister on the need for these regulations, which will help to create a genuine common market and remove transnational or national restrictions. But whenever new regulations arise, one should ask whether something will be abolished or whether any legislation will be abolished. This question must certainly be asked both in Europe and in Estonia. I have seen how bureaucracy creates itself, for example, the same proposals from the European Commission to the Member States. There are areas where the Commissioners or their departments would not like to make proposals to the Member States, but because it makes them look bad, as if they are not working or monitoring what is happening in the Member States, there are quite a lot of materials being produced, which may not have much meaning. That kind of stupid pretending to do a job should be less.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U73	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for a very nice speech, full of energy and momentum. Even when I listened to it, it seemed that the entire analysis of the National Audit Office was one of the blanks next to this speech. Such energy and momentum would actually be needed in the government. After all, we have often heard in this Chamber that there is a certain stagnation in Estonia's development, we have heard it in the discussion of the Human Development Report and in listening to other important presentations. Do you share with me the view that Estonia needs a new impetus, such a new approach, a greater view to be successful again at European level and better serve its people, so that the development of the Estonian state is as dynamic as your speech today?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U75	Thanks for the compliment! I naturally think that the more new ideas there are and the more people Estonia does, the better. But perhaps we have reached a certain level of development in our country, where it is more difficult to make changes. This is also somewhat logical, because the situation is no longer what it was in the 1990s. Let us be honest, it is sometimes very difficult to make unpopular decisions in this Chamber, too, because the opposition is doing its job. So I call on the opposition to help the coalition in supporting these structural reforms.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U76	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your very good presentation. The Prime Minister pointed out that subsidiarity issues could be resolved in the Committee on European Union Affairs in the interests of speed. What is your understanding of how subsidiarity issues can be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U78	Thank you. On the one hand, what we went through here six months ago was a first experience for Estonia. I agree with the Prime Minister that eight weeks may not always be enough, because a legal analysis, especially a constitutional analysis, whether or not this or another issue is regulated at European Union level, may take longer. I think we could look at how the current system works for a while. It's so new, maybe these roles and competences are falling into place. Of course, the European Union Affairs Committee is ready to assume greater responsibility than the Riigikogu wants to give it. In many countries, even in most countries, subsidiarity control is the task of the Committee on European Union Affairs, and they do so much more often than we do. Our committee of expertise, then ELAK and then plenary, is pretty clumsy and takes time. Of course, the Estonian state is not ready and these procedures can be reviewed in Parliament. But I wouldn't be in a hurry, I'd rather continue with the current system, and only then would I assess the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U79	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U80	Prime Minister! Good waitress! Both presentations were very substantive and important. You drew attention to very important problems, but a little bit of what Mr Barroso has mentioned over the last few years also ran through them. In short, the idea is that the European Union, in the form it exists in the current institutional system, has exhausted itself. For a number of reasons: it no longer responds to problems, systems do not work, etc. I'm just asking you to fantasize a little bit. What could the European Union be, say, 10 or 15 years from now, institutionally what could be changed there?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U81	Thank you. I would, of course, like the functioning of the European Union and the institutions to be structured just as easily and as understandable as the Estonian state has been built up. Whether it's possible in a connection like this, I'm a little more skeptical about it. I think that the main problem at the moment is that the wishes of the Member States and the visions of the future of the European Union are fundamentally different, there is not enough consensual ground to convene a new Convention for the future, even tomorrow, and to start writing a new Treaty on the European Union. We have also come up with the idea, at events organised by our committee, that during the Estonian Presidency a new Treaty of the European Union (Tallinn) could be agreed. It's a little fantasy, isn't it? But rather, the problem is that there are Member States that would like to move very quickly towards a more federal model, to give up competence, are countries that are so tired of change and crises that they do not agree with any new initiative and would rather like to maintain the status quo, and there are countries that have become much more sceptical about Europe due to the crisis. As I said, in many countries, anti-European forces are likely to have a stronger effect in the European Parliament elections. We know that the United Kingdom will probably hold a referendum in 2017. It is not known what will happen to them in the European Union. So the force lines are pulling in very different directions. I believe that within the next three or four years, there will not be enough common ground. Perhaps if the economy works better again and there is more optimism and a European spirit, then we can go on a more cardinal path of change.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U82	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U83	Thank you. Good colleague! Mr Prime Minister did not want to talk about what we are going to close a hole in the pension system in 2017. He used this general expression 'other sources'. I can see where these other sources might be. But I believe that when we discuss this issue in the context of European Union policy, pensions are one of the hardest nuts. The point is that the average pension in other countries of the European Union and we are very different. How much time do you think it's gonna take to cover this gap?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U84	Thank you. You have built a rather complex structure between pensions and European Union issues. But I have already given the example of Poland and Ukraine. In the early 1990s, these two countries started to move from the same level of development, Poland headed towards the European Union, Ukraine was in a vacuum for a long time and then went its own way. During this time, the difference between them has reached 2.5 to 3 times. If you ask where the money comes from, the money comes from the economy, the taxpayers. I think that the European single market, and the digital single market in particular, has an enormous potential that has a real impact on economic growth, thereby also creating jobs, wage increases and new investments. Estonia could look for opportunities within the European Union that it is not yet able to use, and it is likely that there will be tax revenue for which pensions will be paid.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U85	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs. I, too, welcome both presentations on foreign policy today. This debate in this Chamber is very much needed. My question, however, is more about the work of the Committee on European Union Affairs. We have some ministers performing nicely, but some of them have problems sometimes. However, a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs would be pleased to hear directly the Minister's opinion on certain positions, which he is also going to defend in Europe. What do you think we can do? How can we influence ministers to report personally on very important positions in the Committee on European Union Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U87	Thank you. We obviously agree that we do not have a problem with most ministers. Perhaps some individuals do not tend to come to the Commission, and sometimes officials have been sent instead of the Commission Minister for incomprehensible reasons. I don't see a big problem here. I believe that the ministers will understand what the role of this committee is. After all, they need a mandate from the Riigikogu to negotiate. But, as I suggested in my speech, when I have been in contact with my European colleagues, most of them are surprised that on all topics, with all the drafts and initiatives, ministers are going to our committee and will be given a mandate. This is quite surprising, in the view of most parliaments. This is certainly positive for Estonia. In many parliaments, there is only a consultation and cooperation format at all, and ministers rarely show up. I believe that we have chosen the right model, the Scandinavian model, and the ministers will adhere to these practices. The Prime Minister is now listening, and in the next meeting of the government he will certainly comment on those who are not very busy going to our committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U88	Thank you very much. No further questions. I open negotiations and ask Marianne Mikko, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Just as the government, like the Social Democrats, is for a strong Europe. We agree on that. However, on many other issues, we have quite a different view. For the tenth year, Estonia lives in a situation where we have the honour to belong to a club of 28 countries in Europe. What, then, is Estonia's European policy? Is it something Brussels wants or something that we, as a society, have to achieve? We realise that Brussels's demands in one area and another help us as a country to make progress, especially with regard to the social dimension. It is precisely this dimension, unfortunately, that the government does not attach excessive importance to it. Yes, the annual report published yesterday by the National Audit Office is an alarming reading of which the government should draw a single conclusion. 'Employment has reached the country, but not the person', 'Estonian continues to be poorer than the average European', 'Emigration grew exponentially after the crisis', 'Fifth Estonian people live in poverty'. What does the press write about? This policy of the European Union, which the Prime Minister did not mention in his presentation, however. It is essential for the neoconservative policies of the government to focus on positive statistics. We remind the Prime Minister that the Estonian person is a citizen of a Member State of the European Union, in other words, a European. Only the Estonian ruling elite loves to deal with the well-being of concrete rather than the European citizen. Rather, the European Union's money creates a road by reducing the European Union's deepest gender pay gap with its own resources. The Social Democrats ask why Estonia is taking the Youth Guarantee with full seriousness in Europe with no rational explanation. A few observations. The Digital Internal Market and e-Applications. The Estonian government does not tire of praising us as an e-state in the world, and we have gradually been counted among the leading e-states. Our domestic e-services work. Mostly. But I'd like to hear more about our digital exports. It is certainly a good thing that we are able to deliver e-state to the countries of the Eastern Neighbourhood. But what about conquering the world's largest market, the internal market of the European Union? We know that the European Union's digital internal market has not met its expectations. One possible reason is consumer distrust. Why not design a niche for Estonia's digital exports into the area of security and reliability? Why not create a strong alliance with the world's most trusted online shopping houses? Science and technology. The year 2020 is no longer behind the mountains. Is it realistic to contribute 3% of GDP to research and development? If Estonia were to spend this money at all costs, would it go ahead or would it go back to the way the NATO member had a target of 2%, which the chancellors would have to bang tens of thousands of euros from the anti-tank system to spend? But research and development don't have to be banging. It has to be an investment. We would like to see the money placed there coming back from the sale of research-intensive products. So far, however, we have been successful, particularly in the service economy, such as Skype, Transferwise, the banking that we sold abroad, and transit. Products that are smarter than a flower pot with a battery are not in the front row of our exports. What has become of the genetic treasure that we put a lot of money into back in the day? Does our higher education even enable such an objective to be achieved? We have a strong female advantage in higher education, yet the average wage level for women is 30% lower. Will our higher education reduce the value of a person in the labour market? If so, why? Economic and monetary union. The Annual Growth Survey will once again appear in November. In this sense, today's discussion is incomprehensible. Nor can the European Union's growth forecasts be expected until tomorrow. However, we know what the European Union has recommended to us in the framework of the European semester, and we can already respond to ourselves if anything has changed for the better. Firstly, what do we have with the budget, apart from European Union subsidies? We'd be out of our respectable balance right now. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U90	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U91	Secondly, has it been possible and what we have been able to do to prevent people from going to the labour market in other countries of the European Union or from sitting at home with discouragement? Coalition politicians are billing more jobs, one more amazing than the other. But in fact, people leave Estonia. I was talking about higher education, about its value, about valorization. However, I would also like to mention that, for example, with our most recent major development project, oil shale energy, cooperation seems to be taking place with German research centres. Fourthly, Estonia is at the absolute top of Europe in terms of its energy and transport intensity in relation to one unit of GDP. Energy is not among the most expensive, but our low incomes mean that every unit of energy saved is a great relief for every family's wallet. There is certainly much to be done here, in addition to fiscal measures, simply with common sense. Subsidiarity. It is somewhat embarrassing for the Social Democrats that the first reasoned opinion of the Riigikogu, which was historic in this sense, was presented about the directive of the European Commission, according to which large companies must disclose non-financial information and information on diversity. The environmental and gender aspects of this directive were so irritated by some political parties that, using the principle of subsidiarity, Estonia gladly let it all go down, although it might have been thought what we are then actually attacking. Estonian Presidency in 2018. Lithuania seems to be handling its Presidency well. However, there does not seem to be a big idea or a major breakthrough during this period. We Estonians still have time to schedule our big idea for the Estonian Presidency. We still have time to find people who will not only succeed, but will perform impressive and brilliantly. We already find some of the 400 euro officials of Estonian origin who are already working in Brussels, probably being recognised by colleagues, but more needs to be raised themselves. What would be the agenda for the Estonian Presidency? What's the big idea? There could be bureaucracy reform, substantive, not formal. In general, however, I would like to hear this big point from the Prime Minister. Finally. The Eastern Partnership Summit of the European Union at the end of November means a great deal to the so-called new Europe, and especially to the three Baltic States. It is true that Ukraine must have an association agreement, despite Russia's opposition. However, it is also true that the Prime Minister of a country spending 2% of GDP on defence could also have talked about the forthcoming December Council, which has focused on a common defence and security policy. We believe that it is no less important to listen to and discuss proactive thoughts or, if you wish, to listen to the vision than to look back. Post factum is good, but it is influencing events that is evidence of mature European politics, even if it is a small country. But as the great European Paul-Henri Spaak has said, every country is a small country, even if it thinks it is not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U92	Thank you. Please ask Urve Tiidus, representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen and guests! I was inspired by the question of how to make Europe the most business-friendly part of the world. Experienced people know that good situations in our lives are mostly deserved, but crisis situations are very instructive. The dual nature of crises is well characterised by the Chinese language, where the word 'crisis' is expressed by two hieroglyphics, one of which is a threat and the other a chance or a way out. Four years have passed since the start of the financial crisis in the euro area in Greece. Concern and stress about the financial future of the European Union have eased, say some. The crisis is not really over, others are arguing back. The existential question of whether the euro will survive is, however, buried, was said yesterday by our central bankers. Today's main presentations from the Prime Minister and the Chairman of the EUAK on the policy of the Estonian European Union here in the Riigikogu confirmed that this autumn it will indeed be possible to speak with a calmer heart about the future and implement plans to prevent new crises, and, more importantly, to implement plans that will promote economic growth and allow you to look more hopefully into tomorrow and beyond, I hope. Since the speeches, questions and answers already heard above already dealt with all the important issues in Estonian European Union policy, I look at the matter from a more subjective point of view. For this point of view, I am borrowing a topic from the speech by Arto Asa: how can we still make Europe the world's most business-friendly continent? In theory, the answer is simple: to be entrepreneur friendly. In practice, it's kind of a harder nut. Especially now, for example, when economic growth in the euro area is slower than in the rest of the world, it sounds like science fiction. Or does it? Five European countries (Denmark, Great Britain, Norway, Iceland and Ireland) were ranked top ten in the ranking of the most favourable countries to deal with entrepreneurship, and Singapore, Hong Kong, New Zealand, the USA and South Korea were enthroned in the top five. Estonia was 21st in this table. If the countries of the European Union are mostly in the second or third ten, then there are also countries in the euro area below 70. We know that every country like every person and continent is different and that simple parallels cannot be drawn. However, if you fantasize about Europe as the most business-friendly continent, it will probably help those countries that have been at the top of the ranking for several years. What are their advantages? Naturally, world-class infrastructure, high-quality financial and legal services, plus a simple tax system and relatively low taxes, and of course, location, location, location. Placement not more than five hours away from any Asian location is the reason why Hong Kong, for example, is very business-friendly in the eyes of Asia as a whole. At the same time, Iceland, which is also located in the top ten of the table, is not at the best place on earth. That means there are some other X-factors. In order to be the most business-friendly continent, what has already been said here today is probably also useful: it is easy to set up a company regardless of the boundaries, it will take a little time to process all kinds of permits, it will be easy to get a loan. In short, simplicity and predictability are essential and there must be as few cross-border obstacles as possible. It cannot be said that there are no problems with these issues in the European Union at all. As we have heard and very well know, situations vary from country to country. The ambition of achieving the name of the most business-friendly continent is certainly essential in order to increase Europe's competitiveness. If it seems that I have gone too far from the politics of the Estonian European Union, I say that Estonia, with its 21st place, is certainly in a good starting position to achieve the objectives mentioned above. Innovative solutions are always lacking in the implementation of ambition, but it cannot be said that innovative solutions do not occur at all. Can I have half a minute, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U94	Half a minute more.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U95	As we have heard from the Prime Minister, such digital solutions for the better functioning of the single market are to be offered by Estonians, Danes, British and Finns, probably others. I would like to mention that research was recently carried out at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the conclusions of which are of interest. This study concluded that children need to be taught more music and beautiful arts to raise people with innovative thinking. But Leonardo da Vinci knew the truth very well. If, at the end of this year, we are moderately optimistic about the future of the European Union, I want to be very optimistic about the fact that Europe is ever the most business-friendly continent. This means that Europe is even faster, more flexible, even less bureaucratic. As was emphasised earlier, a more competitive Europe is clearly in the interests of Estonia, not only in the interests of state policy, but above all in the interests of the Estonian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U96	Thank you. I ask Mart Nuti, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U97	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Mr Prime Minister! The Fatherland and Res Publica Union have always supported Estonia's membership of the European Union and the further development of the European Union. The European Union and its success will continue to be central to us. The debate on what the future European Union should be, is still ongoing, and there have been very different views during this debate. The position of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union coincides with the opinion of the majority of the Estonian people that the Member States of the European Union must step up cooperation and it is justified to delegate to the European Commission decisions concerning the common interests of the European Union and which it is more effective to decide at European Union level than the individual Member States. At the same time, the Member States of the European Union should remain sovereign and subject to international law. In view of the upcoming elections to the European Parliament, the debate should also become more lively and substantive in Estonia, certainly Estonia should be an active player in the cross-border debate. There is a great deal of scope for growth in a number of areas of cooperation within the European Union. The free movement of services has not progressed enough, the different Member States and their citizens are not in an equal position. The situation in banking is strange. In some Member States, a citizen of the European Union cannot even open an account if he or she is not a resident of that State. It would be in the interest of the European Union to move forward quickly in the field of information technology in all Member States. Electronically readable ID-cards and digital signatures could be equally usable in all EU countries. Research and development should be given more attention and resources in the European Union. In order for the competences of the European Union and the Member States to be more clearly differentiated and balanced, more attention should be paid to respect for the principle of subsidiarity. Recently, Member States are more often concerned that the principle of subsidiarity is being reduced and therefore less sensitive to local interests and particularities. This, in turn, raises the question of whose interests decisions are taken in the European Union and whether the voice of a citizen of a small Member State can be heard. However, the subsidiarity principle plays a central role in maintaining a balance in the interests of the Member State and local level of the European Union. The success of the Estonian economy has been based on conservative fiscal and fiscal policies. We believe that a strong euro, a balanced budget and low inflation are also the best foundation in the other Member States of the European Union to ensure rapid development and make the European Union as a whole more competitive. Estonia has proven the benefits of proportional personal income tax to progressive income tax and may also recommend it to other Member States. It is very important for the European Union to be guided by the European principle of citizens, as well as by the European principle of states. In fact, these principles do not conflict with the fact that national sovereignty and equality of citizens are guaranteed at the same time. This, however, requires precise regulation of the competences of the central authorities of the European Union. At the same time, the European Union must become more united and stronger, but more understandable and transparent for its citizens. Estonia could also offer its own solutions here. Estonia has always welcomed the enlargement of the European Union. Following Croatia's accession as 28th Member State, the enlargement of the European Union appears to have led to a longer break. This should not mean, however, that enlargement has ended. All countries that meet the criteria of the European Union and wish to join the European Union should be welcome. The candidate countries have already shown their desire and are awaiting accession, the countries that have signed an association agreement with the European Union have shown a desire for close cooperation. It is in the interest of the European Union to give up its clout and protectionist approach to what is beyond the borders of the European Union and to show openness and willingness to cooperate. Negotiations on free trade agreements are very important for the future of the European Union, especially the conclusion of a free trade agreement with the United States. The accession of Latvia to the euro area is welcome. This is a clear message about the credibility of the euro, and it will only strengthen the euro zone. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U98	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U99	An important cooperation dimension for the European Union is the Eastern Partnership. The republics of the former Soviet Union, east of the European Union, are the closest neighbour of the European Union, which is historically and culturally close to the European Union. The Eastern Partnership is particularly important for countries that share a common border with the Eastern Partnership countries. The European Union must be interested in democracy and economic success in the Eastern Partnership countries. It is just as important that every country can make decisions independently, without external pressure. An association agreement between Ukraine and the European Union is in front of the door. This agreement certainly meets the interests of both parties and contributes to the economic development of Ukraine, the independence of Ukraine and the progress of democratic values there. Democratic presidential elections in Georgia deserve recognition. We hope that Georgia will continue to respect democratic values. Moldova and Armenia need strong support from the European Union so that they can make independent choices. The countries of Azerbaijan and Central Asia, whose importance to Estonia and the European Union as a whole is considerably greater than what might be expected from existing relations, cannot be overlooked either. The state of democracy, or rather the lack of democracy in Belarus and Russia, remains a problem. Democratic development would be in the interests of both these peoples and the European Union. Let us acknowledge the courageous and brave people who have dared to say the truth about the situation in these countries and have not given up hope and eagerness to demand respect for the rights and freedom of their citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U100	Thank you very much. As a representative of the Central Party Group, I would like to ask for the floor of the Jüri Ratas. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U101	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! Prime Minister! Good listeners! A little more than ten years ago, on 14 September 2003 a second and still last referendum took place in the restored Republic of Estonia. Over half a million Estonian citizens took part in making a decision that was crucial for the future of our country and nation, two thirds of whom supported Estonia's accession to the European Union. Like the Republic of Estonia, the European Union has evolved and changed over the course of ten years. In September 2003, when the Estonian people decided to join the European Union, 15 countries belonged to the European Union, starting in. a From 1 July there are already 28 Member States in the European Union, with a total population of over half a billion people. This is nearly 200 million more than in the United States, for example. The citizens of the European Union have been given the right to a popular initiative in law-making, if there are at least 1 million signatures, but we have unfortunately not yet come this far. Dear members of the Riigikogu, I think we should consider this seriously. Ten years ago, many people felt that support from the European Union was a decisive argument. The financial contribution of the European Union has averaged a sixth of Estonia's national budgets in recent years. With the support of Europe, we have been able to make a lot of investments. Estonia, municipalities, various non-profit organisations and entrepreneurs have successfully used euro money. The share of EU support is also very high in the next budget period 2014‐2020. During the next seven years, the use of euro grants must be based primarily on the long-term interests of the state and the people, leaving party political and personal preferences behind. However, this has not always been the case when using EU funds so far. Instead of simply investing in concrete, we should focus more on improving people's living conditions. It is even more important to prepare now for the time when Estonia will have to cope without the help of the European Union. We must also find money in the future to make the necessary investments for the state, the municipalities and the people. When we talk about the European Union, we cannot ignore agricultural policy. Thanks to the efforts of representatives of the agricultural organisations of the Baltic States and the heads of government, among others the Prime Minister of Estonia and the Farmers' Confederation and the Chamber of Agriculture, direct payments will increase during the next financial period. However, growth cannot be satisfied until the end, as our level of support will reach 75% of the European Union average only in 2019. The agreement presented by the Government of the Republic, which has won a great job, is rather a modest compromise. Support for active farmers for the purchase of arable land is a specific issue. The government presented an additional legislative proposal, approved by the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs, which was voted down by the Committee on European Union Affairs in confused circumstances. I hope that we will also reach sensible solutions within the country on this issue, rather than wait for the decisions of other Member States of the European Union. Good listeners! Being part of the European Union has undoubtedly brought Estonia many benefits, while each coin has two sides. The economic crisis, the debt crisis in the euro area and the creation of a European stability mechanism have hit the European Union and, above all, the euro area in a different light. Acting in a common economic space and settling with common money will inevitably depend on the actions of other euro area countries. The European Union and the euro area rely on mutual cooperation and trust, but the last mentioned abuse can cost all Member States dearly. This is why this spring will be a new procedure for euro area members to submit their national budgets to the European Commission for review. The Commission does not have the right to veto budgets, but it is hoped that an in-depth analysis of the independent evaluator will make financial matters more transparent. Estonia has always complied with the financial rules agreed in the European Union and the euro area, so the regulation in the Riigikogu last week, which passed the first reading in the Riigikogu, is unlikely to affect the 2014 state budget, but we also need to ensure that the centralisation of power in the euro area does not go too far. The European Union is known to be wider than the euro area alone, i.e. we must take into account and respect the interests of the 28 Member States, the different approaches and understandings of both monetary policy and social issues. In my opinion, it is not possible to move towards a federal state concept within such a unique connection. It is certainly not in the interests of the Estonian state and the people that this development and the increasing transfer of decision-making powers to Brussels are taking place. Good fellows! In less than seven months, the Estonian people will re-elect their representatives to the European Parliament. I hope that this election campaign will discuss essentially different visions of the future and the problems and challenges of the European Union. Although Estonia is a small country, we must not limit ourselves to the role of spectator and noder in Europe. We need to develop a clear understanding of what the European Union and the euro area we want to see. The task of the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic, the Members of the European Parliament and the Euro Commissioner is to work towards jointly set goals. I think it is seriously worth considering the idea that the Riigikogu plenary would be the institution that will present the Euro Commissioner's candidacy. The most important and difficult task of the coming years will be to resolve the decade-long demographic crisis, or to restore positive growth. We all know that, in addition to the negative natural growth, the increasing emigration of our population will further reduce. Joining the European Union and the Schengen visa space gave our people the freedom to look for better working and living conditions from abroad. This right cannot and must not be taken away from anyone. At the same time, we must work harder to ensure the survival of the Estonian state and the people. Serious preparations need to be made for the European Union Presidency's responsibilities in 2018. I very much hope that, in five years' time, we can be satisfied with the development of both our country and the European Union. I also hope that in 2018 real construction works will already be carried out by Rail Baltic, connecting the Nordic countries and Western Europe. To meet these milestones and long-term goals, we must work together both at home and in Europe. Estonia's success depends on our contribution. Finally, on behalf of the Group, I congratulate the Committee on European Union Affairs, its chair, its members and certainly the secretariat of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U102	Thank you very much. The negotiations are over, I'm closing the negotiations. Thank you very much to all the waitresses. Excuse me, would the Prime Minister like a final word? Please, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I would like to thank you for your numerous questions and for your meaningful speeches. Estonia's European Union policy has mostly been consensual and I would like it to remain that way in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U104	Thank you very much. The negotiations are now closed and the debate on the first item is over. Thank you very much to all participants!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U105	We're going to the second item today. The first reading of draft 510 of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund, submitted by the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, begins. I would like to ask for a chair of speech from the Chair of the Economic Commission, Kaja Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Committee initiated a draft decision of the Riigikogu regarding the end of the term of office of Mart Laar's member of the Riigikogu in order to elect a new member of the Supervisory Board of the Development Fund from among the members of the Riigikogu. At the meeting of the Economic Commission, Reet Roos, member of the Riigikogu, was elected. We have a proposal for the Riigikogu to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U107	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Just in case, I would remind you that any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U108	Madame Kallas! We know and respect you as a pro-democratic and cooperative colleague. How do you personally assess the fact that there will be no opposition representatives in the Council of the Development Fund now or in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U109	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U110	Thank you for your question. Personally, I have expressed my position. But this is the decision of the Committee on Economic Affairs. It is the decision of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I rely again on one report from the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office has pointed out that the principles of the appointment of Soviet members should be amended. This report states that, for years now, the OECD has been reporting that the appointment of Soviet members is problematic and opaque. If all the circumstances are taken into account, what can be done in the near future to make the appointment of Soviet members clear, transparent and understandable for everyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U112	Thank you for your question. This issue needs to be looked at on a number of sides. The OECD has been talking about the assembly of boards of state-owned companies, but at the moment we are discussing a draft decision on the appointment of a member of the Board of Directors of the Development Fund. The Estonian Development Fund Act sets very narrow limits, which can be members of this council at all. It is clearly stated that the Riigikogu appoints two members from among the members of the Riigikogu and three representatives of the public. We have already mentioned the representatives of the public; we are currently simply replacing a member of the Riigikogu. As regards the appointment of the members of the boards of companies, we have a draft of the Social Democratic Party in the proceedings. As far as I know, there is also a plan at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to better manage the management and management of state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U113	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U114	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Perhaps you will name for the verbatim and for the general public who are members of the Council of the Development Fund and who have presented them there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U115	We dealt with the replacement of only one member of the Riigikogu, we did not reselected the entire council, and I do not have a list of the council here. If I were to name these members, I would have to do it by memory. But § 10 of the Estonian Development Fund Act states who and how the council members are appointed: the government appoints two members; the Riigikogu appoints five members, three of whom are representatives of the public and two are representatives of the Riigikogu; in addition, the heads of universities appoint two members.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U116	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U117	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I don't want to go after the people, but it's often heard from the coalition that the opposition isn't constructive, complains too much and doesn't even want to cooperate. As a wise person, how does it seem to you whether the opposition is sufficiently involved, for example, in decision-making on road-showing structures and organisations, that we really should not be complaining anymore, because we have made some decisions ourselves? Or do you think that the current situation, where the opposition is virtually nowhere to speak, is normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U118	Thank you for your question. I find it difficult to link this issue to a specific draft decision that the Commission discussed. It seems to me that this is going out of my jurisdiction at the moment when I, here as the representative of the Committee on Economic Affairs, are responding to this draft procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U119	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U120	Thank you. I hope that answering my question will not go out of your jurisdiction. To Mr Allik's question, how do you feel about the fact that at present only members of the coalition are represented in the Board of the Development Fund and no members of the opposition are present in the Council, you answered that you have expressed your position, but the Commission's opinion or proposal is currently under discussion. Just for the sake of the verbatim, I ask what your position is.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U121	I also expressed my position when we spoke last time about the Council of the Development Fund in this very large Chamber. My personal view is that there could also be a representative of the opposition, but in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the result of the vote was that Reet Roos became a new member.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U122	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U123	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I understand that your personal understanding of political balance unfortunately remained a minority in the vote in the committee you chair. But we know that Estonia usually has most coalitions. Often, people may be tempted to share something that they can keep. The public rhetoric does say that these positions are divided on the principle of competence and meritocracy. In most cases, however, this competence tends to shift as soon as the government coalition changes. How do you think that political balance can be realised in real life? Could it be assisted, for example, by some kind of code of ethics or other document?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U124	Thank you for your question. Again, it seems to me that this draft decision of the Riigikogu was not discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs. My personal position may not be so important here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U125	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U126	I am asking questions from members of the opposition. What amazes me a bit is that the opposition, through the development fund, is trying to run their own narrow party business and put their husband somewhere. It doesn't make any sense to me. But all right, that's how they take it. In my opinion, the Development Fund should deal with Estonia as such, but I will ask you, just in case. How political authority is a development fund at all? Is this where the opposition must necessarily realise the interests of its party?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U127	Thank you for your question. Since the Development Fund is a think tank attached to the Riigikogu pursuant to the Estonian Development Fund Act, I believe that there is, in fact, a direct connection to who sits here in the Riigikogu. In that sense, I understand these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U128	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U129	Thank you. Did your personal position, a democratic and opposition-supporting position, also appear at the moment when the voting procedure took place?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U130	The votes were divided so that Reet Roos received 5 votes, Jüri Ratas 3 votes and Urve Palo 2.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U131	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Is a member of the Board of the Development Fund subject to a fee and how much is the premium earned there?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U133	Thank you. Yeah, I get paid for it, but I can't tell by heart how much it's worth.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U134	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U135	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! When assessing the economic committee's choice of the principle of gender equality, do you think it was a good choice?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U136	Thank you. I believe that Reet Roos is certainly a good candidate and it does not concern his sex. There was another female candidate, if that's what you mean. Two candidates were female, one was male. The woman was chosen.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U137	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I believe that there is probably no reason for anyone in this Chamber to doubt how expensive the rose is for the social democrats, but we are talking about the principle here now, not the person. Very rarely, there is such an opportunity that you can take your old speech and read it again from the Riigikogu speaking desk. I sought out a speech that I negotiated on 7 June 2011 when we approved the composition of the Council of the Development Fund in this Chamber. I'll read a few paragraphs from here. I said this at the time: 'Some time ago, in this Chamber we dealt with the draft decision on the appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre and then the ruling coalition took the view that political balance would be ensured even when representatives of both the Fatherland and Res Publica belong to this council. One would think that there has now been some development and political balance has been achieved with representatives of both the Reform Party and the IRL forming part of the Council. Of course, the voting procedure, which is not provided for by law, can be adapted to achieve anything other than a politically balanced outcome, but it is bad political practice. And sometimes bad practice is even worse than bad law. The Estonian proverb says that what you sow, you reap, and another saying is that if you sow the wind, you will reap something worse. Perhaps when the ruling coalition brought this bill to the hall, it has been thought that if the next government is made up of Social Democrats, their political culture will not allow it to descend so low, and perhaps you are right about that. But maybe there will be times in Estonia when power is exercised by a political force whose understanding of political culture is not so high. Given that the ruling coalition has again given up on.. political practice and the principle of the balance of political forces, the Social Democrats are voting against this draft. " I have nothing to add to what I said at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U139	Thank you. Please ask Aivar Riisalu, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U140	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, My speech, too, is motivated by entirely spontaneous emotions. Speaking of the Development Fund, I, and also most of the middle party members (of whom I may not even be one of the sharpest pencils) understand unambiguously that this is Parliament's think tank in its original sense, as it was ever established. Having been a member of the Economic Commission myself, I dare say that the Development Fund was a perfectly good institution that saw relatively new and surprising things in the world. Listening to the latest report from the Development Fund made me feel like I've come back to second grade, and there's this kid with a simple children's book with lots of beautiful pictures, and then he's in a very simple language, using quotes, explaining to me the results of his last year's work. That's when I wasn't happy anymore. I admit to you honestly and directly, and even looking at the social democrats, I am forced to admit that these are perfectly normal and reading people who do not need to show picture books, so that they can understand that development is a little more than looking at beautiful pictures. But what do you want, the respected coalition? You will see that the people no longer support you. You're like a strange country in the second half of the 1940s, where there was no idea that things in the world had changed long ago, but there was still a miracle. Your greatest tragedy is that you do not cooperate in society, you do not develop dialogue. The softest way to develop dialogue would be to let a couple of opposition people into the Council of the Development Fund who could perhaps say two words about what the development strategy of the Estonian state could be shaped in Parliament. Try to understand that if you do not start the dialogue, it may happen that there will be such processes in Estonia, which you yourself fearfully call a left turn. However, this left turn may not be a good one, because our economy, which has not been supported much recently by the Development Fund, is not capable of fulfilling all promises. Then we may cry a little more, because things are not well for us if we look at our basic goal of serving mankind and improving the economic situation of the Estonian people. Listen, members of the coalition of gold, try to understand! You're crying in the Estonian Daily Paper that the government was collapsing last month. But now you've found each other again and you're not even giving me the chance to discuss it again so that suddenly your government can last another year and a half. To be honest, I think that no normal opposition party has much interest in going to the coalition at the moment, because after this coalition ends in 2015, there are not many other options in Estonia, except that left-wings come to power. Is that what you want? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-05_U141	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Good fellows, 35 seconds to the end of the trial. So we won't be able to do the next procedure. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 12.59 p.m.
