ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu, we will begin the sixth Thursday session of the V plenary session. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Priit Toobali, the speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U2	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the Centre Party Group is submitting a draft to the Riigikogu, which obliges it to introduce an electronic voting control system in the municipal elections already taking place in October. The current law provides for the use of the control system as of 2015. In the past parliamentary elections, the question of influencing the voter's computer arose, which called into question the legitimacy of e-elections as well as of the entire state power. The chooser did not have the opportunity to check whether the computer correctly recorded his will and transmitted it to the ballot box without errors. In order to increase the credibility of e-voting, the voters must be given the opportunity to check whether their vote has reached the electoral server unchanged. The aim of the draft submitted by the Centre Party Group is to implement the electronic voting control in the municipal council elections in autumn 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U3	Rannar Vassilyev, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, Several members of the Social Democratic Party are members of the Riigikogu and members of the Riigikogu who classify themselves as democrats report an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. This question concerns the protection of consumers' interests in an open electricity market. An inquiry is quite specific, one might even say a little more laconical than usual, but it is very meaningful and important. We have two questions. Firstly, we ask whether the fact that the choice of a general service provider is made without having to organise a lower bid on the reasonable costs of providing the general service and a reasonable return on business is in line with the principles of the European Union Directive. The second issue also concerns consistency with the European Union directive. The Directive obliges the regulatory authority, together with other relevant authorities, to ensure that consumer protection measures, including those set out in Annex 1, are effective and enforced. We ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications to present the measures taken to protect electricity consumers. So two issues, one concerning the cost of the general service and the other concerning the protection of our vulnerable consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U5	There's no more calls. I have adopted one draft and one inquiry on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Secondly, good colleagues, next week on Monday, 4 March, the traditional Youth Parliament simulation game 'The Model for the European Parliament' will take place in the Chamber. In this regard, I ask you to take the necessary items from the tables and drawers. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14. Let's go to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U6	The first item is the third reading of the draft Defence Union Act 190 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Mati Raidma, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are about to adopt a new Defence League law. Together with this, the Reform Party will fulfil its programmed promise that national defence will rely on the voluntary involvement of citizens and the will to protect them. I quote: 'Protecting the Estonian state is our common value, benefit and responsibility. Estonia's security is strengthened by a cohesive civil society where informed active citizenship plays an important role in promoting security and security. '
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U8	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. I ask you to respect the waitress and those members of the Riigikogu who wish to listen!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U9	'An important prerequisite for state protection is the willingness of citizens to protect. The best way to implement the free will of citizens to protect Estonia is through the Defence League and its sub-organisations. The Reform Party considers it important to support the development of the Defence Union and its growing role in national defence by renewing legislation and ensuring funding for the Union. The Defence League is an organisation whose membership every Estonian citizen has the opportunity to contribute to national defence. ' The current government union programme also contains promises: we adopt the new Defence Union Act, we ensure the stable development of the Defence Union and its special organisations. Today's positive vote will provide the Defence Union with an updated legal framework and operational bases. The law being adopted will improve and clarify the position of defence allies in society as key contributors to national security and defence. Since the Defence League is an integral part of Estonian national defence, it is important that the Defence Union Act enters into force at the same time as the new Defence Forces Service Act, i.e. on 1 April. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (47 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz; There's been a lot of work on the bill. In order to obtain the best possible result, the final text has been accompanied by a major contribution from the Ministry of Defence, the Defence Forces and the Defence League, as well as by active defence allies and other voluntary organisations in the field of national defence, members of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu and advisers. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the participants. Obviously, we all got richer by this experience how fundamental and necessary Riigikogu commission's draft work is. At the same time, the new ten-year national defence development plan, which has just been approved, and the implementation plan that will be completed this summer, will open up new perspectives for the activities of the Defence League and, together with this, there will probably be a need to complement the law adopted today. The National Defence Commission is ready for this. Once again, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I call for the consensusary support of this important draft law in the field of national defence in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U10	Thank you. I would like to ask for a chair of speech from the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have reached the third reading of the draft law of the Defence League. As has been said, this law has been done for a long time, it has been done for three years. The length of the process clearly demonstrates that the law governing the activities of Estonia's largest civil society was not done in haste, but based on in-depth analyses and discussions. During the last year, the National Defence Committee worked through the law thoroughly and supplemented it significantly in cooperation with the Defence League, the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence. My special thanks to our Commissioner Mati Raidma, under whose leadership all decisions were taken in a consensual manner and all parties were involved in the discussions. The need for a new Defence Union Act was caused by significant shortcomings in the current Defence Union Act. For various reasons, the current Defence Union Act was adopted as a matter of urgency in 1999, which is why the law, which was in principle well drafted, did not contain any precise technical rules. For example, the law does not regulate the governance of the Defence Union, does not provide for the tasks of the Defence Union, does not provide for the role and tasks of special organisations and collegial bodies. There is also almost no regulation of the right of command, incentives and disciplinary sanctions, insufficient and sometimes unclear regulation of the uniforms, weapons and property of the Defence League member. The new draft law on the Defence Union does not change in principle the nature of the Defence Union, but clarifies the provisions laid down in the 1999 Act. According to the draft, the Defence League remains a national defence organisation with voluntary membership, military organisation, weapons management and military exercises. The more detailed amendments introduced by the new law will facilitate the day-to-day activities of the Defence League. In addition to the nature of the Defence League, the draft provides for the tasks, organisation and management of the Defence Union, according to which the Defence League continues to be a symbiote of a national defence organisation exercising public authority and a voluntary civil society. These two poles are also reflected in the leadership of the Defence League, where the role of the Commander of the Defence Forces as a leader of national defence and organisation lies in the military management of the Defence Union, and the competence of the central authorities is also important as a result of the nature of the civil society association. As an independent public-law legal person, the Defence League is governed on a daily basis by the Head of the Defence League. The competence of the central bodies is clearly stated and there is a distinction between partially overlapping tasks in the current law. The draft also extends the rights, obligations and responsibilities of members of the management body of the legal person to members of the central bodies. The draft will organise the structure of the Defence League and the Women's Home Protection, Youth Eagles and Daughters, who have so far acted as special organisations, are defined as structural units, as it has not yet been clear how these organisations fit into the structure of the Defence Union and what their tasks and relationship with the Defence Union are. In addition, the members of the Defence League will be organized. An active member will be an 18-year-old person instead of the 17-year-old, and a young member will be a 7- to 18-year-old person. The grounds for suspension and termination of membership shall also be laid down. The draft also regulates the performance of the duties of the members of the Defence League and the exercise of the right of command. The rights and obligations of members of the Defence League, the grounds for their encouragement and disciplinary sanctions have also been further developed. The draft sets out the social guarantees of the members of the Defence League and benefits similar to those of the Defence Forces in similar situations. The new law makes it possible to better achieve the goals that the state has set for the Defence League, to involve more volunteers in national defence and to play a greater role in the defence of the Estonian state. As you understand, this is a good bill and I am absolutely sure that if we adopt it together, Estonia's defence capacity can only become stronger, only better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U12	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The current Defence League Act should celebrate its 14th birthday in five days' time. I would be pleased if this child, born in the last century, still remained as old as it is. Although the essence of the Defence League is well regulated by the current law, it no longer meets the expectations of the Estonian legal space of the 21st century, all the more so since the new development plan for national defence has been freshly caught and according to it the Defence League has been given great powers. Let us ask whether the Defence League is a voluntary association or a military organisation with command? What are the tasks of the Defence League? To what extent should the Defence League engage in other profitable activities? In the current Defence Union Act, the tasks of the Defence Union are laid down in very general terms. I'll bring out some problems. Firstly, the nature of the Defence League requires a look at the relationship of the Defence League with the Defence Forces and the power of the Commander of the Defence Forces in the Defence League. The tasks of the Defence League have been well documented in the draft after long peaks have been broken down, as well as the authority of the Commander of the Defence Forces in the activities of the Defence League. The draft law regulates the competences and tasks of collegiate bodies. Secondly, 13 years in force and hopefully soon invalid in the Defence League Act were inadequately regulated by special organisations of the Defence League, such as Women's Home Protection, Home Daughters and Youth Eagles. If we approve the draft in this Chamber today, the structure of the Defence Union will be merged as structural units of the Defence Union. Due to the transformation of special organisations into structural units, membership regulation has also been changed. The third major concern was that of the Defence League's weapons. The bill organises the arms section, specifies the registration, handling and right of use. A monitoring chapter has been included in the draft compared to the current law. Although the Defence League is an organisation operating in the area of the Ministry of Defence, which uses public funds, state control over the activities of the Defence Union was inadequately established and there were no clear responsibilities. The Social Democrats are pleased that the draft law on the Defence Union has finally included a chapter on social guarantees. According to the law currently in force, members of the Defence League with their duties were equated with members of the frame defence force in active service. It was therefore not clear what was specifically extended to the members of the Defence League, whether the obligation to pay wages, which guarantees were more precisely and to what extent. With the bill this grey zone disappears, the guarantees of a member of the Defence League are laid down. In addition, the provisions on resource-intensive training of the active member of the Defence League have been added. The surveillance chapter has also been brought into line with the law on law enforcement. The Defence League is also granted the right to verify the personal data of the member and the person wishing to become a member. The draft states the opportunities for citizens to participate in social life and influence the membership of the Defence League. In our country, everyone who is not involved in the exclusion situations outlined in the Defence Union Act can join the Defence League. According to the bill, you can join the Defence League at the age of seven, becoming a young member. Participation in the activities of the Defence League means maintaining and raising the will to protect Estonian citizens, which also means doing a joint business with the aim of increasing the security of Estonian citizens. The Social Democrats welcome the strengthening of the Defence League's position in national defence. The adoption of the Defence Union Act is not just an initiative of coalition parties, but is an expression of the defence will of the Estonian people. Finally, it is also of little importance to note that the draft provides a legal basis for involving the Defence League in ensuring cyber security. In view of all the above and the compromise work that the draft law on the Defence Union reflects, the Socialist Group's firm position is to support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U14	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U15	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, As a practicing and active defence ally, I would like to congratulate the previous speakers, who have highlighted all the technical and substantive advantages associated with the law of the Defence Union. I'm not gonna go over all this. It is important that the National Defence Commission and all four political parties represented in the Commission have worked on the principle of consensus over the last two years. We have argued among ourselves, but we have not come out of the Commission's premises with disagreements and we have signaled to society that we have a pretty good foundation for defence that has been laid in the 21st century. 2% of the state budget is earmarked for defence costs and our defence forces contribute to national defence through the Defence Forces Service Act, which will enter into force immediately, as well as our defence allies through the Defence Union Act, which, I hope, will enter into force today on 1 April according to our wise decision. Yes, the Defence League is a unique organisation in the world, and there is no other similar. Yes, defence allies sometimes caused problems in the early 1990s. The society's understanding of the Defence Union has evolved over the years, and the Defence Union's reputation is now very good expressed through people or public opinion. If you ask the Commander of the Defence Forces what kind of militia unit would be ready to fight the enemy today, he'd answer with a crooked smile that it's a military orchestra that's fully assembled. In the case of the Defence League, too, it may be assumed that its units are not always physically 100 percent built and maybe it is not capable of doing what this Defence League can do. I say that, when the Estonian state is in a tight spot, the Defence League is the only organisation capable of standing in a few hours, with a weapon in its hand, defending the constitutional order of Estonia. This was clearly shown to us in April 2007, when in a few hours there were over 400 men under my home-wrestling rifle. It is our duty to give such an organization a green path to develop. It is our duty not to go into political disputes over the nature of national defence, because small countries do not have an alternative to the kind of national defence we currently have. And when we look at our neighbours, not to mention their names, as wise people, both the people of Estonia and the honourable Members will understand that our path is only right. Thank you to all parties! I thank the people of Estonia, because they also took an active part in the procedure of the draft law! There were some things hanging in the air, but I promise you, we will be flexible and correct mistakes when they are created. I hope there aren't too many. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You, too, could join the Defence League in large part, because there is a place for everyone in the Defence League and everyone can contribute to national defence within the limits of their capabilities. No one is too old for national defence, no one is too bad, but we all have this opportunity. Thank you and we support the draft law on the Defence Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U16	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on the draft 190. Dear colleagues, Bill 190 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership. Let's do a presence check before the final vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16. I will put a bill of 190 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 86 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Bill 190 of the Defence Union Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law. That concludes the first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U17	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on political parties initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs 304. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We can start preparing the final vote. I will put Bill 304 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 82 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft law 304 amending the law on political parties initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been adopted as a law. The second item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U18	We will move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act' presented by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. I would like to ask Väino Linde, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U19	Good chairman of the sitting! Honourable Riigikogu! It was February 19th. a when the Riigikogu finished the first reading of this draft. On 25 February, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs reviewed the draft at its meeting. No changes to this draft were submitted to the Commission by political groups, committees or honourable members of the Riigikogu alone. The language editors did not have any comments either. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has decided to bring the same text before you today, ladies and gentlemen, and to propose that this draft be adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U20	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U21	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I also asked this question in the committee, but there were no number of members of the Riigikogu sitting in this Chamber. The purpose of this draft is to appoint Liisa-Ly Pakosta, member of the IRL Group, as a member of the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act. According to Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs, of which Liisa-Ly Pakosta is also a member, is held at the same time as the meeting of this committee. How can we solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U22	Thank you. The answer to this question in the Commission was the same as I am saying here: it is also known that the IRL will be making changes among the members of the Committee on European Union Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U23	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. No amendments have been tabled to the 370th draft. The position of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading and also to put the draft to a final vote at second reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Good fellows, I'm going to vote the final vote on bill 370. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 72 members of the Riigikogu, there are no respondents or abstentions. Draft 370 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the "Constitution of the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act' submitted by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union has been adopted as a decision. The third item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U24	We will move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of draft 371 of the Riigikogu decision 'Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Stabilisation Reserve' submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U25	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby give you an overview of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Stabilisation Reserve and the appointment of a new member', which is at first reading. The Finance Committee initiated the draft on 31 January this year in accordance with the State Budget Act and discussed the draft at its meeting on 12 February. Pursuant to § 373 of the State Budget Act, the Riigikogu appoints four members to the Stabilisation Reserve Board for a period of five years by decision initiated by the Monetary Commission. According to the post, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is the Minister of Finance and one member is the Governor of Eesti Pank. The members appointed by the Riigikogu must have an impeccable reputation, higher education and the knowledge and experience necessary for the performance of the Council's duties and must not be part of the government. By decision of 15 June 2011, the Riigikogu appointed Annely Akkermann, Inara Luigas, Taavi Rõivas and Rannar Vassilyev as members of the Stabilisation Reserve Board. On 10 December 2012, Taavi Rõivas was appointed Minister of Social Affairs as a member of the Government of the Republic. The Riigikogu may withdraw a member's employment and service relationship before the expiry of the term of office. In this case, the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu initiates the recall. In the event of the resignation of a member appointed by the Riigikogu, a new member shall be appointed. According to the draft, Taavi Rõivas is recalled as a member of the Stabilisation Reserve Board and is replaced by Mr Aivar Sõerd as a member of the Stabilisation Reserve Board. According to § 117 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, this draft is discussed at a single reading and no amendments will be tabled. The Commission made consensual decisions to put the draft on the agenda on Thursday 28 February 2013 to close the first reading and to put it to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U26	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you! Do the groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote on 371. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Good fellows, I'll put bill 371 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 64 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft 371 of the Riigikogu decision "Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Stabilisation Reserve and appointment of a new member' submitted by the Monetary Committee has been adopted as a decision. The fourth item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U27	We will move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which is the report on the implementation of the Estonian security policy until 2015 in 2012. The rapporteur is Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior. Dear colleagues, let me briefly present the procedure for this item on the agenda. First of all, the Minister of the Interior will be reporting for up to 30 minutes, and then there will be questions. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Subsequent negotiations, during which representatives of the political groups will be able to speak. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. I am pleased to welcome Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, in the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to give the Riigikogu an overview of the implementation of the main policies of security policy and the tasks that we have been assigned to us, with which we can and can make Estonia a safer place. We are talking today about the priorities that I, as Minister, have set for my area of governance since 2011. We are talking about the foundations of security policy. Both of these will help us reach the roots of internal security, help each step to make our living environment safer, safer and also more friendly. I will introduce you to the most important tasks and results of internal security, which confirm the claim that security around us has increased. First of all, prevention policies and reduction in the number of accidents. In 2012, the number of accidents was the lowest in Estonia's recent history, and during the whole period of independence, the lowest number of accidents was this year. This positive trend is characterised by this slide, which I would like to introduce to you. In road accidents, fire, and water, 196 people died last year, or 17.4% less than a year earlier, and even four times less than in 1994, for example. Every life lost in an accident is clearly tragic, but I think that considerable work has been done in the intervening years to bring such losses closer to the minimum. That is why we have contributed much to prevention in recent years. I am convinced that this is the best way to reduce and prevent accidents. The road surveillance action plan established at the beginning of 2012 under the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior will also produce first results. We can say that for the second time in this century, the number of road deaths was less than 100. When 101 people died in road accidents in 2011, 14 fewer people died last year, or 87. All other statistics have improved, i.e. fewer traffic injuries, fewer road accidents as a whole and fewer road accidents with victims. If we move on to fire accidents and deaths, in 2012 the number of fire deaths had been released in Estonian history at the lowest level in a year, the number of people killed in fire fell from 73 to 54. I think that this achievement again shows that prevention in the field of fire safety is particularly effective. The significant spread and take-up of smoke detectors has certainly contributed significantly to the reduction of fire deaths in recent years. The use of the sensor in housing has become mandatory in 2009, but it is also, of course, necessary to carry out consistent communication in order to achieve the full effect, in addition to the introduction of requirements. On the sixth slide, you will see an increase in the prevention budget over the last three years. Last year, this was quite a significant increase, compared to 2011. The greater the safety awareness of people, the better the behavioural attitudes that respect fellow people, the safer society will be. That is the conviction that we have increased the budget money. In 2012, the total funding for the rescue area and police prevention was almost 50% more than in the past, and this trend will continue this year. Reducing the number of accidents is a continuing priority for the Ministry of the Interior. In particular, we will do this through the three main pillars, the lines of action: firstly, increasing the volume of supervision and better-thinking implementation; secondly, contributing to prevention, making a significant contribution to systemic and financially covered prevention; thirdly, a stronger attitude towards offenders, especially those who have accumulated many offences. The second priority is the fight against serious covert crime. An overview of the crime situation was given to you, honourable Riigikogu, on Tuesday by the Minister of Justice, when he reported on the development of criminal policy. In the area of Homeland Affairs, we deal with crime every day. I would like to reiterate here why the fight against serious covert crime is a clear priority for us. Drug trafficking, state theft, serious economic crimes, money laundering and organised crime groups, including trafficking in human beings and weapons, are complex offences whose prevention and successful detection help to prevent a number of other offences in society. A very important component of this is the proceeds of crime. The general principle is that the more we are able to confiscate criminal proceeds, the less determined the perpetrator will commit similar crimes in the future. In 2012, the amount of proceeds from crime was significantly higher than in the previous year. This shows progress and also shows an increase in the capacity to detect and confiscate proceeds of crime. From 1 January last year, we restored the Central Criminal Police to increase the capacity to investigate and detect serious crimes by harmonising central management and work practices. We have allocated more than EUR 1.9 million to increase the procedural capacity of the criminal police and to acquire special funds. A separate crime revenue unit has also been set up to go deeper in the discovery of criminal income, to find links and to take away from the criminal world exactly what motivates them most to commit crimes, that is money and property. We move on to corruption as one of the types of serious hidden crime and look at reducing corruption. Here is a good indicator of the annual international index of Transparency International, which is also before you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, and where the countries of the world are ranked on the basis of indicators of the social perception of corruption. Despite Estonia's progress and the fact that we have been in first and second place among the Eastern and Central European countries for quite several years, the current situation cannot be quite satisfied: in 2011 Estonia was 29th and 32nd in 2012. So there's still a lot of work to do here to catch up with the top ten of what's in front of you, and where we can essentially find all the Nordic countries and a number of other transparent countries in the world. There are a number of activities in progress in this area, as it is far from enough to reduce corruption, not one, two or even three steps, but there must be much more of these steps and parallel activities. There are already a number of developments in the anti-corruption strategy 'A Honest State', which started in 2004. The current track record is planned for 2013 to 2020 and provides a comprehensive overall framework for all anti-corruption activities, both prevention and investigation of this heavier side, i.e. corruption crimes. The strategy will focus more on preventing corruption in the private sector and local authorities. In addition, one of the objectives of the strategy is to raise awareness of ethics and corruption among citizens, public sector workers, businesses and other target groups. In addition, activities are underway aimed at making the investigation of corruption even more thoughtful and better covered by resources. At the beginning of last year, a central office for investigating corruption was established at the Central Criminal Police, which is the centre of competence for investigating corruption throughout the Estonian police, in the prefectures. This office has gotten on its feet nicely, works and focuses mainly on corruption in 220 municipalities in Estonia. We have also extended the powers of the Defence Police to investigate corruption and have provided additional resources to this end. Let's move on to our third priority: strengthening life-saving capabilities throughout Estonia. In order to strengthen the ability to save human life, we allocated nearly EUR 2 million in additional resources from the state budget in 2012 mainly for personnel costs and personal protective equipment. A very important step was taken in the first half of last year. If you remember, in May 2012, we reorganized the rescue command network throughout Estonia, which was the first time such a restructuring. We brought our rescue capabilities into line with the real risks, threats and the location of people in Estonia that changed in twenty years. We also continued last year to implement by 2014 a plan for the transition to the single emergency number and to start receiving calls from those in need for rescue, the police and also the ambulance in the single regional alert centres. Now, in a few words, the reorganization of the rescue squads in greater depth. This was preceded by more than a half-year analysis, which led to the reorganisation of the national rescue teams in May of last year. The total number of national commandos decreased from 81 to 72, but the number of life-saving rescue units increased by 25, from 41 to 66. There are currently 53 rescue commandos in Estonia, which employ at least four rescuers every day, and 13 rescue commandos, where at least three rescue officers work daily. Thus, there are now about 121000 more people in Estonia to whom the life rescue service reaches within 1 to 15 minutes. The restructuring of Rescue Commands will end in the first half of this year, but by the beginning of the year the main objective of the restructuring had been achieved: to provide more than 93% of the population with a significantly faster and more accessible life-saving service instead of 86%. The fourth issue I will address is a serious social phenomenon such as drug addiction and its reduction in society. Reducing supply and demand for drugs is, in my opinion, very important for society. In the fight against the causes and consequences of drug use, we can only be effective in the interaction of very different lines of action and in close cooperation between the different actors and actors. In order to strengthen this cooperation, in April 2012 we set up a Council on Drugs Prevention, led by the Minister for the Interior, which includes the Minister for Social Affairs, Justice and Education, representatives of several professional associations dealing with youth and education, representatives of local governments and heads of state agencies involved in drug prevention, the best experts we have in Estonia in this field. The Commission's aim is to strategically coordinate both prevention and reduction of drug supply at the highest national level, to link together all those parties who are already contributing to drug reduction, to the different lines of action of this serious societal phenomenon, and to achieve the best results together. When we talk about reducing drug supply, we can say for 2012 that the police seized a record amount of drugs and criminal proceeds. It is clear that we focus on fentanyl as an extremely strong synthetic opiate, as well as the substance that causes the most drug deaths in Estonia. It's a drug with a very devastating effect on its spread. The confiscation of fentanyl increased considerably last year. We provided the police with additional resources to deal with the so-called street dealers, i.e. middle-level distributors. But, of course, the priority is to capture the peaks of the drug chain who organise the distribution of this lethal substance in Estonia. In summary, 1.7 kg of fentanyl was received in 2012, which could have sold several tens of thousands of doses on the drug market. In addition, EUR 1.5 million of proceeds from crime were confiscated. This is half as much as in 2011. Next, the next priority is to involve volunteers in ensuring security. It is quite clear, as we have said many and several times in this Chamber, that volunteers are not replacing professional policemen and rescuers, but are complementing their activities, linking the community and the authorities and being able to solve a significant part of the crisis at first level. Of course, state support for volunteering is important. The state cannot create free will itself; we can only provide support, encourage, involve people. It can be said that in the last two years, we have directed four times the amount of money, as shown by the slide before you. Currently, the membership of relief police personnel reaches about 1,500 people, half of whom is made up of a reserve. While in 2012 there was an active assistant police officer in Estonia for around 2139 people, the target for 2015 is that there is an active assistant police officer for every 1000 inhabitants. Reaching this ratio is ambitious, but I dare say, an achievable and certainly necessary objective. Volunteer rescuers are also playing an important role in ensuring the safety of communities, and they are planning to continue to increase their numbers. The Police and Border Guard Act, which entered into force on 1 September 2012, established a legal basis for volunteer marine rescuers. In 2012, the Police and Border Guard Board organised basic first-level training for 34 volunteer marine rescuers. In addition, the representatives of the Estonian civil society, or voluntary sea and lake rescues, have trained about 70 volunteer marine rescuers with European Union funds since 2011. As you can see from this slide, in the last four years, there have been a lot of volunteer rescuers in Estonia, the number now reaching about 1250. Systematic activities are also under way here to significantly increase and cover the number of volunteers across Estonia, especially those areas that we can call scattered settlements or even more remote areas. The sixth priority is the continuation of a conservative citizenship and migration policy. We can say that Estonia is still a country where the number of asylum applications is the lowest in the European Union. The pressure on immigration has gradually increased and will certainly continue to grow in the coming years. As a result of the activities of our law enforcement authorities, we have placed a border on the admission of foreigners to Estonia who would be a threat to public order, the security of the state or the social and cultural functioning of the country. We can say that 2012 has shown that Estonia is also able to react decisively and adequately to abuses of the immigration system. The amendments to the Aliens Act, which entered into force on 1 July of last year, which were made to prevent further misuse of residence permits that occurred in 2011, have been effective and effective. There are also statistics on how residence permits have been issued in 2011 compared to 2012. Our citizenship policy is based on well-functioning principles, the core of which is that giving citizenship to a non-citizen is a privilege that involves a special relationship of trust between a state and a person. In addition, one very important issue under this priority is the issue of identity documents. As can be seen from the next slide, this year the conversion of identity documents will reach the top in Estonia, and the increase from 2011 will be significant, essentially 100% of the year. The number of documents to be exchanged in 2013 amounts to 630000. We have set the objective that the waiting time at the service of the Police and Border Guard Board must be between 15 and 30 minutes, and must not be exceeded. This means that the exchange of identity documents for people will be made as smooth as possible and will be done this year. These figures will not change very much in the coming years, they will remain relatively high, which means that the service standard currently required must be a continuous, rather than a one-off undertaking. Finally, the last but not least priority: quality and sustainable internal security management. In 2012, EUR 297 million was spent on internal security. We allocate a large amount of taxpayers' money to make it safer for all of us. We must take every step to ensure that the conditions for using the taxpayers' money entrusted to us are high-quality, sound and result-oriented governance. For my part, I would like to create all the preconditions for taxpayers' money to earn the goals set by the Ministry of the Interior in the area of government, and it should, of course, be spent in a sustainable and thoughtful way. The slide before you has the most important projects in 2012. I'm gonna stop a couple of them a little bit longer. In April, Jõhvi completed a nearly 850-square meter building for the Police and Border Guard Board, the Rescue Board, the Alarm Centre, the Information Technology and Development Centre of the Ministry of Interior and the East Department of the Defence Police Department. The building consists of the first working room of the Estonian common Alarm Centre and the Police and Border Guard Board. The emergency calls to 112 and 110 will be solved there. Another similar workroom was opened last year in Pärnu. More than 2,000 square meters of court and police building was completed in Jõgeva, where modern premises were provided by court, probation service, real estate department, the police department of the Police and Border Guard Board Jõgeva and the service of the citizenship and migration bureau Jõgeva. In 2012, the Ministry of the Interior handed over 63 real estate objects of the Rescue Board to Riigi Kinnisvara AS and 9 real estate objects of the Police and Border Guard Board with a total value of 7460000 euros. By this we are completing our transfer of real estate to Riigi Kinnisvara AS, on which the government has made its decision. It exempts agencies and the Ministry from dealing with real estate management and allows them to focus more on their core activities. The transfer has also helped to better plan the Ministry's administration budgets. In total, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has transferred 180 real estate objects worth more than 5.4 million euros to Riigi Kinnisvara AS since 2009. In addition, the organisation of major national procurements in the last few years, such as fuel procurement between many public authorities, as well as our activities for the successful delivery of the IT Agency, can also be highlighted. The IT Agency has started its work, and the Director General Krum Garkov has also been appointed. I think that this step will certainly be a significant victory for Estonia, which will strengthen our reputation as an IT state and will certainly make us a more attractive investment place for entrepreneurs in this sector. Finally, honourable Members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, I would recommend that you all read thoroughly the report that you have in your hands on the implementation of the main lines of security policy in 2012. I'm sure I'm looking forward to your ideas and analysis. Every discussion, thought development, constructive proposal is always welcome. Everyone can contribute to security, and it is far from the task of the state to create security, but it is a very clear and important role for individuals themselves, of course, and for the third sector, municipalities. Only together can we increase security. We're a small country. Our financial resources are always limited, but goodwill and additional powers are not limited, it can be incorporated. And it can only be involved if people are convinced that action is thought-out and systematic if they understand their role in ensuring security, even in their own home or in the community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U29	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior, for your presentation. The first question, please, Mr Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U30	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you very much for your presentation. There's a lot of questions, but there's only one I can ask. The vast majority of the volunteers are assembled and represented by an umbrella organisation called the Salvation League, but the Ministry of the Interior has left them without support with surprising consistency in planning its budget. For the last three years, we have come to this topic in the Riigikogu in December and tried to find solutions. Can you make a promise in the interests of the verbatim that this situation will end and that the support of this umbrella organisation will now and always be on the Internal Affairs budget line?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U31	Thank you for your question. I can assure you that every year the Ministry of the Interior has asked the Ministry of Finance to support the umbrella organization of volunteer rescuers, or Salvation League. Amazingly, the Ministry of Finance, showing strong backbone and consistency, has excluded this support from the state budget, considering it as a one-off support that has been added to the Riigikogu. I will certainly do everything possible to ensure that the Union for Salvation Support, which is also EUR 45000 this year, plus EUR 15000 left over from last year, together with EUR 60000, becomes regular support and that it is taken into account that it is a partner organisation of the country, which, as a umbrella organisation, brings together most rescue commandos and non-profit organisations. I very much hope for the understanding of those who put together the state budget. I also hope, of course, that our cooperation with the Union for Salvation will be deepened and that this organisation itself will gradually become stronger, which has actually happened in recent years. The Salvation League is now our good partner when we prepare a general strategy paper on volunteering for the next five years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U32	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I read the report on security policy in depth, both in the shorter version and in the book, but found almost nothing on an important issue such as human resources policy. I'm not talking about drivers right now, I'm talking about people working on a field. We're talking about concrete again, building new houses, which is all important, but we're not talking about dozens of people leaving the police. The sad part is that they quit as soon as the retirement age is reached, perhaps in the best of working life. Was such a thing deliberately excluded from the security policy report? Why don't you give me a few words to describe what the Interior Department has been doing or doing in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U34	Thank you very much for your question. If you read my preface thoroughly too, you know that there is mention of 2013, which is, I dare say, an exceptional year compared to previous ones. From the beginning of 2013, as one of the exceptional Member States of the European Union, we will be able to improve people's motivation through wage increases. This concerns both the rescuers and the police. As we have said, the wages of the rescuers will increase by at least 5%. At the Police and Border Guard Board and at the Rescue Board, wage increases have required the organisation of wage systems, a so-called wage reform that has required considerable resources in its own right. The wage reform has been largely carried out in both institutions this year. 80% of the police and border guard staff have had an increase this year. I have spoken with my colleagues from other Member States of the European Union. Other countries have not done as Estonia has (we can, of course, compare ourselves primarily with the countries of Eastern and Central Europe). There are countries where wages are also frozen in domestic security, and there are countries where wages show a certain setback. We can improve people's motivation this year. I think this is an important but far from satisfactory step. All you have to do is move on from here. Inevitably, it is the salary that motivates those who work with dedication in the field of salvation and in the police. You mentioned concrete. I dare say that, alongside pay, the working environment is also important. That is why, under the last priority, there was a brief discussion of the improvement of the working environment that took place in 2012. It's all going on this year. For example, new rescue buildings will be built in Tartu and Tallinn, several other projects will continue, especially in order to improve people's working environment. We'll do it with Riigi Kinnisvara AS. This is another step towards improving people's motivation. The third step is certainly linked to people's sense of organization. We know that the Police and Border Guard Board is a large organisation and that there are very different cultures represented. It's gonna take some time to melt it all together. The merger has been working for three years, but there is still a lot of work to be done to achieve it, and it is not easy. All we can say is that better motivation for people is one of the clear priorities of the Ministry of the Interior, because our area of government is the highest number of officials. Many of the lines of action, which have also been mentioned today, have been implemented to this end. We'll take the fight against serious covert crime. The restoration of the Central Criminal Police at the beginning of 2012 is, in my opinion, a very important motivational factor for the criminal police. It is also important that we have given much more money to the criminal police, particularly to combat serious crimes. It cannot be said by any means that one thing is enough, that we only raise wages and limit ourselves to that. No, there are many lines of operation. The combined effect of all this should be that people feel that security is important to the state, that the state invests in it, and that there are also very clear priorities and objectives that are intended to be achieved.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U35	Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of the Interior! There are certainly figures in this report that please the people of Estonia. Some figures have increased, some have decreased, but there are also many problems behind these figures that need to be seriously worked on. One study recently conducted by the Ministry of Justice revealed that 58% of the victims of the theft were not reported to the police. It has certainly happened that people have reported theft, but this case is not actually registered. Has it made you wonder why you're not doing this? What should be done to have an overview of the real situation in the area of crime? What could these future directions be?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U37	Thank you very much for your question. Latent crime is certainly a serious problem, I think, in all European countries. In order to assess the level of security in society, we need to look at a wide range of indicators. The need to increase the security of society can never be stressed too much. Security improvements need to be tackled on an ongoing basis. This is also the case with countries that are much more advanced than us, which today are also fighting very mobile crime. You mentioned crimes against property. We know very well that under the conditions of free movement, criminal gangs are also mobile in Europe. When we talk about theft, the number of crimes against property in Estonia has decreased by around 20% every year. It shows one thing and another. This is likely to indicate that crime in Estonia has indeed decreased. At the same time, we can assume that criminals have moved from here to other hunting grounds. This is also demonstrated by Nordic statistics, which show an increase in crime. Now that people don't report theft, for example. Thefts are certainly of a very different nature: there are minor thefts that caused less material damage, and there are large-scale thefts that caused more material damage. In my opinion, community-centred police work is very important, which must be dealt with consistently and systematically. This means that the police are part of the community, he is very clearly a responsible and helper working with the community. The police are gaining more and more of the trust of members of the community, being approached, not only in order to appeal, but also in order to receive help and advice. As part of community-centred police work, volunteers should also play a significantly greater role than is currently the case in Estonia. This means, once again, that, for example, when responding to first-level cases, it is possible to involve aid policemen, members of the same community, who help their neighbours and acquaintances. Building trust in the police as a whole should also help to reduce the number of non-notifications. Inevitably, concealment also characterises serious crimes, such as cases of physical abuse. In this respect, I believe that 2012 was a year of progress. The number of cases of physical abuse increased considerably in Estonia, which means that people's willingness to report physical abuse, such as intimacy violence, has increased. It's only positive. In the past, these cases were hidden. They weren't reported to the police. Unfortunately, close - relationship violence, which may have lasted for years in one household or another, often ended very tragically. This may no longer have resulted in physical violence, but in the death of one or another member of the family, because the person against whom the violence had been committed could no longer tolerate it, but he could not find support from the state, the police and the prosecutor's office. I think 2012 shows that confidence has increased. We are definitely going to build that trust this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U38	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U39	Thank you, Madam President. I'm just making a remark about the last answer. Just in case, I wouldn't call the police complaining. But the question is about the presentation by the Minister of Justice of developments in criminal policy that took place in this very Chamber on Tuesday. The Minister of Justice said: "It is clear that a punitive policy strategy to combat drug crime may lead an increasing number of young people to prison, but unfortunately it has not had a major impact on reducing the damage caused by drugs. I am pleased that the Minister for the Interior has started to look for effective prevention options. The Ministry of Justice will certainly not stand by and contribute to the achievement of these objectives. ' Here's the question: If you've started looking for these opportunities, how long have you been looking for them and what have you found in this search or how good do you appreciate your cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U40	Thank you very much for your question. I certainly didn't say that turning to the police is a complaint. My point was that the police will not only be approached when a complaint has to be made to the police, but will also be addressed to them for help and advice. The police are very clearly a responsible actor in the community, who has won people's trust and can be a helper. That was the point of my previous answer. Thank you for your question on drug addiction. This topic is very multi-layered. Again, it is far from possible to answer with a single sentence. I'm trying to explain this by the Ministry of the Interior fighting drug addiction mainly by reducing supply. However, as we know, reducing drug addiction as a problem in society cannot be limited to reducing supply, but all activities aimed at reducing demand and damage are very important, and, of course, what concerns addicts, their treatment and rehabilitation. As we in the Ministry of the Interior feel the pain and damage caused by drug addiction, perhaps most clearly, compared to our partners, because we see every day offences committed by drug users, we see addicts who violate public order, we have extremely intense contact with them, and through this pain we increasingly perceive that dealing with the consequences alone is not the solution. We want to contribute ourselves here and reach more and more causes, i.e. prevention of drug addiction and harm reduction. This is why, as I mentioned, since last April, under the direction of the Minister for the Interior, we have also taken on board the coordination of the work of the Committee on Governmental Drugs Prevention. We want to try, in cooperation with our partners, to avoid the emergence of dependence in the future, particularly in the target group for young people and minors. To this end, a number of projects are being launched. From 1 March, the pilot project between the Prefecture of North and the Government of Mustamäe Linnaosa in Tallinn, aimed at providing complex social services alongside or instead of punishment for minors who are caught on drug use or intoxicating drugs, to keep them from falling into the hands of drug addiction, and to provide these services to the parents of these children as well. The aim of this project is to pave the way for a wider application for minors and young people. The police and the Ministry of the Interior want to contribute here on a strategic level, and that is why we are offering our assistance and financial resources here. As far as cooperation is concerned, I dare say that reducing drug addiction is one of those horizontal areas where it is very difficult to achieve anything without working together and acting together. There are so many contact points and responsible ministries and agencies. The Ministry of Education deals with the design of attitudes and values in the education system, the Ministry of Social Affairs reduces damage, provides treatment and rehabilitation services, as well as prevention, which is primarily coordinated by the National Institute for Health Development in Estonia. The Ministry of Justice deals with criminal policy and crime prevention, the Ministry of the Interior in particular with reducing the supply of drugs, and we certainly also have our clear role as a preventer. The unification of all these forces requires a greater effort than simply achieving results in the area of responsibility of one ministry. It'll take time. We already have around 10,000 people who are addicted to drugs, who, of course, are primarily part of the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs and require a great deal of money. We want to help ensure that drug addicts do not become more, that our young people choose a drug-free route, understand the causes and consequences. Parents certainly play an extremely important role here. It is precisely to raise parents' awareness that we want to lend our hand and provide help. We have around half a million euros for drug prevention in the Ministry of the Interior's area of administration this year. There are quite a few projects I've already told you about, there are more. They are specifically intended for our minors, young people and parents.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U41	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U42	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister! My question also concerns the area of security and what is happening in the police department. Is the IRL really trying to make its political commissar the new head of the police department, but the Reform Party is against it, and in your quarrel with the two of you, the opposition must somehow maneuver and seek their way? Why don't you tell me what's really going on with this new head of the police department?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U43	Thank you for your question. In 2009, when a candidate was first sought for the position of Director General of the Commonwealth, the current government coalition agreed to open a public competition. That's what they did. An evaluation committee of five members was appointed for this purpose. The Director-General of the Joint Meet was also found through this competition and was appointed from the beginning of 2010. The precedent has been set up and, consequently, we have also launched a public competition now, in early 2013, as the current Director General has applied to resign from 28 February. There was a public competition and a similar evaluation committee was set up. Four of the five members of this panel are members of the exact same positions as the State Secretary, the State Attorney General, the Chancellor of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Deputy Secretary-General and the Head of Staff in the 2009 Evaluation Committee. The public competition was declared unsuccessful, was struck down and the evaluation committee found the candidate in a targeted search. I cannot in any way agree with your assessment that someone is a political commissar and so on. These assessments will, of course, remain on your own conscience. The selected candidate has been the head of the Estonian force department for the last seven years. This force department is a prison service. In 2005, when Rein Lang, then Minister of Justice, appointed him head of the force department, he was a so-called new person in this power department. Priit Kama was then Deputy Chancellor of Administration of the Ministry of Justice who was appointed to lead the prison service. He's been doing this for seven years. He's got over 1,600 employees. I dare say that in this seven years, the Estonian prison service will be much more modern and European. Money has been found and significant investments have been made during this period. I think that the assessments that can be made, in particular, by his current superiors, are also extremely important. So the current situation is that the evaluation committee has selected Priit Kama as Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board. You asked about political affiliation. I can comment on this. I myself checked the register that Priit Kama joined a Christian party in December 1989, at the beginning of Estonia's release, when he was 18 years and three weeks old, or recently of age. He's always been in that solitary letter. I don't know about his active political activity. He has served as a state official in Estonia for 20 years. I also don't know any people who would have mentioned that this is a politically active person, long since he hasn't been in charge of the force for the last seven years. I dare say that it is extremely arbitrary to call him a 'partisan candidate' somehow. I would remind you that those who chose Priit Kama as a candidate are highly respected Estonian state officials who do not belong to any political party. The panel, as I said, was composed of the State Secretary, the State Attorney General and the High Officials of the Ministry of the Interior. This decision was clearly made, as far as I know, on the basis of Priit Kama's current work experience and management experience and ability.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U44	Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is motivated by the table in the chapter on drug use among young people. Here you can see a slow, yet clear trend towards growth among the 15- to 16-year-olds. Here are some questions. Last year, drug revenue was confiscated more than ever. Is it possible to compare this percentage with money in general on this market? Second, however, what is more effective in preventing drug dependence, whether prevention among young people or the actual nullification of this market?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U46	Thank you for your question. I'll start at the back. As I said in answering the previous question, drug addiction is such a multi-layered and complex phenomenon that we will only succeed through very different lines of action. Every facet has to be cut, in a good way. It is extremely important to reduce the supply of drugs, i.e. make it as difficult as possible to place these substances on the Estonian market. Preventing drug addiction, or working with minors, is very important, but not only with young people and minors themselves, but also with parents. We need to understand that attitudes and values, the design of which starts in many ways at home and goes on in school, affect people's understanding of drugs and addictions. If there is an indifferent attitude toward addiction at home or at school, it is also very much a model for children's thinking, especially in their teens. The aim must be to postpone the use of drugs and addicts as far as possible. Recent studies show that there is a very close link: the sooner young people are exposed to and taking any substance, the more likely they are to become addicts. It concerns tobacco, alcohol and, of course, drugs. In view of this, it is precisely the greater awareness of parents, whether or not they are dependent on drugs, that is to say, chronic illness. The sooner children start drinking alcohol, the more likely they are to get brain damage and develop addiction. One very interesting nuance that came out of the ESPAD survey, to which you refer and which appears on page 30 of the Yearbook on Security Policy shows that the proportion of illegal drug users among the 15- to 16-year-olds has indeed increased over the last 15 years. In the last five years, however, it has remained essentially the same, i.e. close to 30%. But there's another interesting nuance coming out of this study. In fact, parents who know what their young ones do in their spare time - that is, they have control and supervision over their children - and parents who do not have control. It has become apparent that if controls are low, it is much more likely that children will be addicted to drugs. If parents know where their children go, who they spend time with, how and what they spend their free time with, then this is less likely. This shows in many ways that the role of a parent in the development of addiction can never be overemphasised.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U47	Please, Mr Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U48	Thank you. Good minister! The security policy document that has been distributed to us suggests that an anti-corruption strategy is currently being developed for the years 2013 to 2020, which focuses more on preventing corruption in the private sector and local authorities. Given that 2013 is already underway, I have a question. How far has this strategy been achieved, and how will this document differ from previous anti-corruption strategies? Given that our position in the index of perception of corruption has deteriorated, is there a plan to change something radically here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U49	Thank you for your question. The anti-corruption strategy is being developed by the Ministry of Justice. In January, the government endorsed the starting point of the anti-corruption strategy. During this year, this strategy should be completed and come to the government for approval. It is already a series of actions for the first anti-corruption strategy 'Aus State', which was confirmed by the then Juhan Parts Government in 2004. As has been said, the prevention of corruption in the private sector and local authorities is of greater concern. In my opinion, our position in this perception index is relatively the same. It is precisely in the context of perception that this issue of corruption can be viewed from a number of points. Two years ago, there was a time when three judges of the Republic of Estonia were questioned in one year and criminal proceedings were initiated. Society may have wondered what was going on, whether corruption was really so great even among the judiciary. The question arose as to what happened in 2011 or 2010. This attitude may have been reflected in this perception index. But the other part is that the country has become much stronger. Even among judges, for example, we can identify potential offenders who do not respect the law and commit such acts. Instead, it shows the strength of the country. We should say that the country has become stronger and that our ability to detect and eradicate corruption has increased considerably. I think the perception index reflects to a certain extent such a moment of fear. If even the judges are what we say about others, you can ask in black and white as we approach them. But the issue of corruption can never be black and white, but it has different aspects that need to be explained to the public through discussion and analysis. I think that the aim of the strategy is also to make people and society more aware of what is allowed and what is not. If you remember, the Ministry of Justice has a website such as www.corruption.ee, where all information about corruption as a whole, from surveys, definitions and concepts to what steps the Estonian state is taking and what is being taken in areas where it is considerably more sensitive to address this phenomenon, for example in the private sector. From the new strategy, we hope that more and more cooperation will be made with the private sector and that the private sector will be drawn into cooperation with the country. We have heard a lot about the fact that private sector organisations and companies rather do not deal with possible cases of corruption. They don't handle it because it's uncomfortable, everything that comes with it is uncomfortable. The question is whether this prejudice can be broken and how it can be done. Of course, these sectors are extremely different. They're talking about medicine. I hope that the strategy will reveal what attitudes and values can and cannot be changed in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U50	Please, Mr Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! In your presentation you said that one of the goals and achievements of Estonian security policy is a conservative migration policy. Due to this conservative migration policy, Estonian research institutions, educational institutions, performance institutions and many economic companies are in serious difficulties because they find it difficult to find skilled labour. All this at a time when there's a pretty ruthless fight about brains and skilled labor in the world. What are you going to do to make Estonia more open to qualified people and new ideas?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U52	Thank you very much for your question. There are very specific activities going on here at the moment. Amendments to the Aliens Act are being developed, which should make the added-value workforce more flexible in coming to Estonia. This work has actually taken place since the middle of last year, i.e. the moment Parliament dealt with the amendments to the Aliens Act last time, which I also mentioned in my report. Partners in this work are ministries that come into contact with this topic, essentially seven ministries, as well as representatives of the civil society, the Council of Rectors, several educational institutions, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, etc. We are on the verge of getting to the point of sending the draft to the coordination circle in the early spring. The draft has sought to take into account positions which are often also contradictory, such as trade unions versus the Confederation of Employers and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. We'll try to find a positive balance. The aim is, of course, that those who provide Estonia with added value, researchers, cultural people, students, would be as easy as possible to come here. However, we must not forget the requirements for internal security. Finding a balance has taken its time, certainly the procedure is not easy in this Parliament either. But we want to get to the government with this bill soon and then before the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U53	Please, my colleague Andre Sepp!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U54	Thank you very much, President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister, thank you very much for this presentation. Since this report was very positive and instilled a sense of security, we are certainly all indebted to the workers in the entire sector! But I also have a question. There was talk last year in this Chamber about sectoral rescue reform. There are now 72 national commandos and 107 voluntary rescue teams in Estonia, which is a very great helping force. However, the Salvation League, which brings together voluntary rescuers, is not legalised in any sector of legislation. As minister and ministry, do you have a vision for legitimizing volunteer rescuers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U55	Thank you very much for your question. The regulation of voluntary rescue in 2010 was actually modernised. It's in the law of salvation. I dare say that this regulation is good and relatively well thought out. In Parliament's proceedings, we changed it in such a way that we created not only an institution of independent assistance officers but also an opportunity for the operation of independent volunteer rescuers. We therefore have a two-tier voluntary rescue system. In addition, as I mentioned in my speech, we introduced voluntary maritime rescue regulations in the Police and Border Guard Act. This is what we did in Estonia for the first time last year. So I think there is a legislative basis. But as often happens, although legislative opportunities exist, their implementation is a separate issue. We're working on it. Since the autumn of 2011, all Estonian rescue centres have volunteer rescue coordinators who aim precisely at introducing their views and its regulation to potential volunteers. Indeed, this possibility has only been in force for a few years; it was not possible to acquire the status of a voluntary savior with independent competence in Estonia before. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to participate in a significant number of training hours, the state provides special equipment and then, essentially, it is possible to intervene in the resolution of first-level emergency situations on the basis of the oral instructions of the rescue officer. Before, volunteers were known to be able to act only with rescue officers, and that was the case with relief officers. That's what we changed during the last parliamentary term. I think that this change is bearing the first fruits, especially in scattered areas, where the professional rescue team does not arrive so quickly, but on the ground there are voluntary rescuers from community members. An example that was discussed a few months ago came from Võsu, where a rescue team was also reorganized. Local volunteer rescuers did not wait for professional rescuers to arrive, but intervened themselves in the event of a fire, preventing both material damage and likely human lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U56	Please, my colleague Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U57	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister! One of the proposals of the Riigikogu has been that there should be one electoral district in Estonia. That is why I am asking both Narva and Võru for my future voters. In this blue book, it says that as early as January, rescuers and policemen in Narva would have had to move to a new building. What's the actual situation over there? The second question comes from the Võru area. There are no changes in the 2013 plans for the new building's reception site, although I know that the preparatory work is underway. What do you want to say to the vipers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U58	Thank you for your question. The opening of Narva's new building will take place in March and people have already settled there. As far as Võru is concerned, yes, solving Võru's problem has taken its time with Riigi Kinnisvara AS. This is clearly one of the priorities. I think we will have a clear solution here in 2013. Different options have been considered: rental area, construction of a new building, etc. I very much hope that we will get a practical solution here during this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U59	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U60	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Statistics show that the number of slanders and insults of the authorities and those defending public order increased by 25% last year. I asked the Minister of Justice essentially the same question. I'll ask you, too, if that doesn't bother you. Where are the reasons why people are not afraid by their behaviour to essentially show their negative attitude towards the representative of the country and with it to the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U61	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, there are, has been, and probably will be, people in Estonia who will oppose the authority by their aggressive and insulting behaviour. A large number of those who have opposed the authorities calling them into order or carrying out public supervision or other procedural activities have been intoxicated. There are people who are not limited to the offence they have committed, but who try to live up to their anger, offense, and resentment on the authority, whether it be a policeman, a judge, or someone else. Last year, there was a debate about the opposition of the punitive policy to the authorities. We have several configurations in the Penal Code. The abuse of a public authority has also been criminalised, and there are a few hundred of these cases a year. Of course, there has also been criminalisation of the authority in its physical form. Are sanctions sufficient? We have proposed that these sanctions be reviewed. I know there's a codification team at the Ministry of Justice who's going through all the criminal law. At the same time, I think that these debates, which have also emerged in the public domain, and the clear condemnation of society, are also counterproductive. They give a clear signal that the resistance to the authority is a rebellion against the Estonian state. These cases will not go unpunished. Yes, in some cases, it may seem to society that the penalties may be too lenient, but these decisions cannot be made from the emotional point of view, but must be made on the basis of rational analysis, looking at the number of crimes and penal practice decisions. Then we can draw clear conclusions on how to make the country stronger and contain those who attack the authorities, and so will the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U62	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Minister for the Interior, for your presentation and your answer to questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for the floor as a representative of the Group of the Rait Maruste Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U63	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The end of the week has offered us twice an opportunity to speak on a close topic: on Tuesday, the Minister of Justice presented an overview of how developments in criminal policy were implemented last year until 2018, and today we were briefed on how the main directions of Estonian security policy were implemented last year until 2015. Security is undoubtedly a value, it is a public good. Security depends on people's well-being and satisfaction with public authority, their country. Security affects people directly; it matters to everyone, linked in substance to existential feelings of certainty and fear. That is why you can easily be tempted to take advantage of it, even play on it. But it would be a mistake to think that the more security, the better. By making security an ultimative goal, a matter of our own, we can move on a path where we find ourselves in a public prison where it is safe, but where nobody likes to be and where, by the way, crimes are committed. By making security an objective in itself, to which other values and freedoms may be subordinated, we may be in conflict with the fundamental values of our society. It is important to bear in mind that the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia sets freedom, democracy and the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms as the fundamental values of the state. These objectives have been set for us by the people through the Constitution. We must keep this in mind and seek a reasonable and fair balance between security and constitutional values. Against this background, the Reform Party considers that constitutional values such as freedom, democracy, rights and freedoms, including the protection of privacy, are an objective and a means of achieving this. Public order and security are the benefits of many measures, including economic, governmental, educational and cultural measures. Society must be open and transparent, communication culture is important, etc. The security tools undoubtedly include foreign policy and defence measures, as well as state assistance and rescue services. They have done a good job and gained the gratitude and trust of the people. Security tools also include police and law enforcement and criminal procedural instruments, including surveillance activities. I would like to take a closer look at the latter. It is about setting priorities. Signs indicate adverse, even alarming, developments. The fact is that in the last decade the number of crimes in Estonia has decreased almost twice for most types of crime. The reduction in serious crime, which we have heard about today, is indicative. Equally or more, Estonians' concerns about crime have diminished. Thus, only 7% of the Estonian population considered crime to be the main concern of the state, with the average percentage in the European Union being 11. Thus, life in Estonia has become clearly safer both statistically and cognitively. In this situation, it stands out that the use of surveillance measures in criminal proceedings is expanding in Estonia. Last year, there was an increase of 9%, even 18% in phone taps. Only 0.3% of all requests for surveillance measures are rejected in court. The total number of permits granted through courts increased by 15% in 2012 compared to the previous year. The frequent reliance of courts on evidence gathered through surveillance measures is also noticeable.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U64	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U65	The number of intelligence permits issued by the Public Prosecutor's Office increased by 8% in 2012. Thus, the number of crimes is decreasing, but the number of surveillance measures is clearly increasing. As surveillance measures seriously offend people's fundamental rights and freedoms, we believe that this development is a cause for concern, it is not appropriate for a free society and the rule of law, and it is not necessary in view of the situation. Given the circumstances, the number of elements of crime for which surveillance measures are justified should be critically reduced, limiting this possibility only to the most dangerous and specific crimes. Surveillance and investigation bodies should more closely respect the principle of necessity, i.e. "ultima ratio', for surveillance measures. In other words, measures that violate fundamental rights and freedoms should only be taken if the usual criminal procedural instruments do not produce results or are excluded. The courts should also be more demanding when authorising requests for surveillance measures and assessing the evidence gathered through them. Where necessary, the relevant procedure and the verification of compliance should be supplemented. Both investigative bodies and courts should consider in greater depth the balance and protection of procedural interests and constitutional values and avoid light-handed interference with constitutional rights and freedoms. It is seriously concerned that according to the Public Prosecutor's Office, they do not have a real overview of the number of real surveillance activities. I quote: '... because, first, not all permits may reach'realization' and, second, it is possible to repeat the tracking operation within two months of the permit. ' This statement by the Public Prosecutor's Office forces the Ministry of Justice to set the task of carrying out a thorough statistical analysis of the taking of surveillance measures and monitoring of their implementation. People must be informed of the violation of fundamental rights that have been established. This will improve compliance and encourage greater thought-out and self-limitation in taking action. Where appropriate, the appropriate procedure and monitoring of its implementation should be specified. Clearer and more precise limits may also need to be set between information procurement and criminal investigation. We believe that these steps would be in the best interests of all of us, that people would therefore feel more relaxed and that they would be more trusting in the power of the state. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U66	Thank you very much, Mr Rait Maruse. I would like to ask for the floor as a representative of the Group of the Centre Party of Peter Võsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U67	Madam Chairman! I'll ask you for eight minutes, and I'll tell you how much I'm saying.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U68	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U69	Ladies and gentlemen, You see, security is such a matter of feeling. It's about the same thing as beauty in the eye of the viewer. It has to be said that the Minister's speech and summaries were very beautiful. But we all know perfectly well that the stick has two ends. While you poke another person with one end, you have to make sure you don't get a stick with the other end of your teeth. There are 988000 people of working age in Estonia, about 365000 of whom have considered leaving Estonia in the last six months. I wonder what we should say to our children so that they do not leave Estonia. Are we talking about the fact that it is safe to live in Estonia and there is a society that cares about them and is sustainable? Forgive me, but I doubt it. Injustice and poverty, anything can be cured if they want to. At the moment, however, there is no sunshine that would spoil this desire. The competition of the Head of the Police and Border Guard Board has made a real theater. Police politicisation means a step back from the Soviet era when those in power created a legal underworld where they were ordered, sold and loaded according to the aims of those in power. I can't talk about feeling safe. For example, people can no longer turn to the police because they never know what the result is. You turn there as a victim, but you prove guilty or are investigated for completely incomprehensible reasons. So it's better to talk about safety. The Ministry of the Interior has been committed to prevention policy, community-centred communication and reducing the number of accidents. Let us see how and by what means all this is done. When it comes to security policy, one of the most important wishes of our people is to see more patrol police officers in towns and villages, while their number has fallen year after year. Last year and the year before, the Police and Border Guard Board worked with a negative budget. As a result, police officers have had to take free leave. These officials, however, have families and, for example, failure to pay the electricity bill cannot be said to be an excuse that the family caterer, who works in a stable state office, did not just get paid for certain days. This is why we have reached a situation where workers with full vitality and experience are leaving the police on a massive scale. There are currently barely 4300 uniforms in organisations with nearly 6,000 employees, 333 officials less than three years ago. Thus, it can be argued that there is a chronic shortage of staff at the Police and Border Guard Board. For example, a number of strong young men left the West Prefecture patrol last year at once to become long - distance drivers. Is this how we will build a safe Republic of Estonia, I would like to ask. D.E.P.D. won't have the strength to take down criminals anymore. On 15 November 2011, the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) published its 2011 report, according to which there were on average 15 injecting drug users per 1000 inhabitants in Estonia at the time, and in other parts of Europe this figure was between 1 and 5. fentanyl, or white Chinese, and its analogues, are most commonly consumed. The conclusion that fentanyl and its analogues are too widespread and too readily available in Estonia is unavoidable. The general reasons for the spread of drug addiction are considered to be insufficient social development in the country or the inadequacy of the police. However, I believe that our society has been very successful in social development. What do you think? However, the police cannot do their job well and very well if the problems of finding staff at the Police and Border Guard Board continue to persist and the constant underfunding. Now let's ask whether, just because they pay, people with a long period of experience, dignified and capable leave the police. No, it's not just about pay. It's because of pay that young people don't want to go to the police. For example, if a constable receives some EUR 740 and an official in a position above him who has worked more than EUR 840, the question arises as to how a young official who has a family and who is doing a commendable and dangerous job for society can support his family with this money. In order to get an extra 100 euros, he has to work for about six years. Tell me if that makes any sense! However, the dignified and capable of a long career leave the Police and Border Guard Board because they have been deprived of benefits or have been reduced. For example, a special pension was abolished, which was still a source of motivation. Yes, these decisions were made here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, but I must make it clear that the Centre Party was opposed to the withdrawal or reduction of these benefits. Nor do I remember the Minister of the Interior rejecting this unpleasant change and supporting the Centre Party in this Chamber. Speaking of security, we can't miss corruption. According to the Annual Books of Crime in Estonia 2010 and Crime in Estonia 2011 prepared in the Criminal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, corruption crimes committed by institutions managed by the state, including ministries, police and other people working in such places, were 61% in 2010 and 57% in 2011 of all corruption crimes in the country. It is noteworthy that this figure increased in both years compared to 2009. Corruption crime in government-managed institutions is on a growing trend. We all clearly remember the case of Indrek Põdra, an internal security officer of the Defence Police Department, who was sent to prison for four years for repeated bribery. At the end of last year, a scandal exploded when it turned out that the Eastern Prefecture had fined 180 people on the basis of an unchecked speed meter. Or maybe we can remind you of stealing the agency's money to prevent crime when it was used as a forged document. In summary, we must say that, unfortunately, we cannot talk about security in Estonia. As we all know, statistics are only a combination of figures that does not reflect reality, because talking to people on the street is a message over and over again: what should be the reason to go to the police if they do not have the resources, the time or often the will to help people anyway? Finally, I quote one person's words: 'I hope that 300 people will not have to leave the Police and Border Guard Office to take the botanist people in their place in order to make them competent officials within six weeks. " Good luck to us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U70	Please, Mr Anvelt, as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U71	Madam President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to make heartbreak speeches here about how bad everyone is. I think that, in fact, Estonia has done so well over the last 20 years, I am thinking of security. We have made progress, which many countries in post-war Europe took longer to do, perhaps 50 years. However, it is a concern that when we read this report too, it turns out that we have become too much of a clit. We do not want to see reality and problems that should be dealt with very deeply. When I received the first version of this report last week, when I read it, I thought that it would really give a very positive picture to the person who enters the world for the first time or does so superficially. Why? If a person has not been exposed to a lack of security on the street, for example, he thinks that everything is so good. While I was reading it, I received a call from a well-known, senior gentleman (he is a well-known person in Estonia, but I am not going to name names here) who was driving a bus in Tallinn at half five at night. They started robbing him on the bus. He fought what to call him, the robber on the bus for several minutes on a half-empty bus, no one went to help him, the bus driver actually pulled a screen. Then he fought that villain on the street while trying to get to the emergency center. It took six minutes. Six minutes he was told he was on the waiting list. Imagine being kidnapped on the street in broad daylight and you have to wait six minutes before your emergency call is answered! I was looking into the background, and I found out that at that moment the entire IT system was down. But that is one aspect of the security policy: security must not be harmed by chance. I will come back to the report on security policy and bring out a few keywords, I will certainly also make criticism and perhaps, as the Minister requested, some suggestions. First of all, prevention should not be replaced by people taking over their own law enforcement functions. People have to help here, but they shouldn't start looking for ways to protect themselves when they're desperate. We all remember what happened in Lihula. There was no constable there. The state structures were opposed for a long time to people looking for replacement security in the form of a security company. What did they really do? In addition to paying taxes, they tried to find security in an exceptional and private way. This shows people's positive attitude. A little sadder was the incident that happened at the beginning of the year in Türi than a person, without finding protection from the law enforcement authorities, took a weapon and settled the situation in court. The police were well aware of what was happening, but they couldn't or didn't want to do anything to prevent it. When we are talking about a rapid reduction in the number of accident deaths, which is very positive, we must not forget that this reduction has come to a time when the part of our young viable society that, unfortunately, is also in the larger risk group, as young people always do, leaves Estonia for work abroad. It is therefore necessary to try to analyse the extent to which this real decline, which has actually been achieved by internal security methods, has actually been achieved. It certainly exists and people have contributed to it, but this reduction is certainly a little less than taking into account the citizens who have left Estonia. I would like to congratulate the Minister for the Interior for having understood that security consists of several aspects and that serious organised crime needs a different approach, not the normal territorial organisation of police work. In recent years, emphasis has been placed on the fight against specialised and international crime. It really is worth recognising, as this understanding was ludicrous for many years. At the same time, I encourage it to move forward quickly and to consider what are still the types of crime that could be dealt with by the Central Criminal Police. Should the prevention of crimes such as those committed at Türi not be the result of strong criminal intelligence and well-managed national work by the criminal police? Or we could take a sad case in Narva, which is still unsolved. It took a long time for the analytical police force from other countries to get there to help. Speaking of drug deaths, it seems that my voice has sounded somewhat. We understand that the offer and demand will start on the street. The capture of project leaders is a good thing, but unfortunately it does not lead to a rapid change in the situation if every young person on the street can buy drugs from a dealer who feels that nothing is threatening him. I think that drug prevention, also in the form of identifying drug users, starts first and foremost on the street and only then does it reach the peaks. But the most important thing I want to say, which unfortunately, the Minister of the Interior slipped over very quickly, is that, with regard to internal security and security, the most important thing is the staff who will carry it all out. It's not just a question of pay. Indeed, the percentage of wages rose, but at the same time we have created a situation where people are not sure about their future. I'm sorry that a lot of cops are leaving the police organization when they've just reached retirement age. It's not right, they're actually at their best age. Why are they doing this? I think the reasons are very simple. For example, every two or three years, we change the understanding of their future pension and say that we give more pay, but in the end, the worker still gets much less than he could get. A good example is the Rescue Board, where there was a very large difference in the salaries of office workers and rescuers. So, good minister, more care for workers who have to do this work every day! I think we can talk about a better situation next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U72	Thank you very much, Mr Anvelt. Finally, as a representative of the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union, I would like to ask my colleague Marko Pomerants to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U73	Mr President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen, Minister! First of all, thank you, I mean my colleagues, for sticking to the point. Indeed, it has taken a long time for us to focus on security policy in the general sense; we have not allowed day politics to enter the hall very much. Of course, with regard to everything that concerns security or, as Peter said, the sense of danger or the absence of it, you cannot only look at the Minister of the Interior. In fact, a wide range of authorities in the country have a role to play. I guess we're the security providers with the greatest potential, each with our daily behavior. One day I came to hear the languagemen's discussion about how to view the word 'priority'. It turns out that there can be only one thing that is more important than the others, there can be no whole set of priorities. Unfortunately, we tend to use this word in a way that we have two, three, four or five things that we would like to do first of all, and there is a need to do them, right? But if this focus were to be narrowed, I thought that, from the perspective of the service, or of the people who do it, the priority could be to focus on the conditions of service, such as the issue of pay. If we look outwards, or towards all of us, no matter how broad we move this issue, these keywords must be prevention and prevention of consequences. If you look at the numerical results, there really is such an interesting paradox that, on the one hand, we are saying that the Commonwealth has worked for three years and there are still so many problems in this cooperation, but at the same time the results in all areas are improving. In fact, it is therefore possible to make progress. I fear, however, that part of this success has been due to the fact that these former separate authorities are now closer to each other. When it comes to a few issues that could be reflected in this report next time (maybe not, but why not reflect them at least in the Ministry's work plan), it would make sense to take a staff review of the whole area, which would reveal what these changes really are, which problems will continue (whether or not the same problems in the use of the national language). Perhaps this report would support the planning of money from the state budget in the coming years. The report does reflect a little about the content of the teaching, but certainly also what is happening among those who work in the field of internal security. I will mention another keyword. If there was a report on security policy for the first time at all in this Chamber, Mati Raidma asked me why there has not been such an area of rescue as the Deminers. I promised him that in my time. In fact, it is a kind of Estonian Nokia, when a demining capacity has been created within the rescue service, that the deminerators will also be able to participate in international missions outside our country. So maybe Priit Laaniste, who maybe even somewhere in the ministry is watching the transmission of our sitting online right now, is trying to remember it and make sure that, next year, demining within the field of rescue will somehow find its place. Didn't I ask for more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U74	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U75	Give me two minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U76	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U77	The Salvation League has already been mentioned here. I do not believe that a non-profit organisation, which is a umbrella organisation, should necessarily be legalised somewhere with a specific name in the law. In my opinion, it is important and sufficient for national organisations in any field to function and have a constructive relationship with the ministry whose administration they are primarily. We will do our own work, then we will have reason to talk again next year about the fact that life will actually improve in Estonia, at least in this area, which we mean by security in a narrower sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-28_U78	Thank you very much, Mr Pomerants. As the representatives of all the political groups have been able to speak, I will conclude the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, our sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 12.24 p.m.
