ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the sixth Thursday session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U2	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs, I have a draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act and the State Family Benefits Act. The initiation of the draft act is due to the need to change the conditions for registration as an unemployed person and for the payment of unemployment benefit and unemployment insurance benefits as a result of changes in the forms of vocational training. Before 1 September 2013, vocational education and training was full-time or part-time. From 1 September 2013, those who started vocational training will have a fixed or non-statorial form of study. There is a need to amend a law whose version has become obsolete. By way of derogation, it is foreseen that unemployment benefit and unemployment benefit will be paid to the person whose unemployment was terminated after 1 September 2013 because the person entered in inpatient vocational training. I also have an inquiry from the Centre Party into the health insurance of conscripts. According to the Health Insurance Act, a permanent resident of Estonia, a person living in Estonia on the basis of a temporary residence permit or right of residence, who is paid for or who pays social tax for himself or herself. Health insurance is guaranteed to all under 19-year-olds regardless of whether their parents are working or not. Health insurance is also guaranteed for conscripts. The service lasts 8 or 11 months. As a general rule, military service takes place either after completion of secondary education or at the time of the completion of the first degree higher education. The conscripts themselves estimate that the best time for military service is immediately after graduating from upper secondary school. Before entering military service, entrance examinations are taken at a higher education institution, where it is possible to go on academic leave due to conscription. However, while on academic leave, this person does not have the health insurance provided by the status of a student. The problem lies in the fact that military service ends before the academic leave is over. In this regard, we have three questions for Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U3	Riigikogu speech chair Rait Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I have the honour to submit a draft law amending the Act on replying to a letter of formal notice and a request for clarification and the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu. The purpose of the draft is to regulate the procedure for submitting and processing collective referrals to the Riigikogu. The regulation is provided for in the Act on replying to a letter of formal notice and a request for clarification, which deals with the submission of a collective appeal, and in the Riigikogu's Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, which deals with the procedure for dealing with collective redress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U5	Good fellows! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry. The Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Let's move on to the messages. Today, after the plenary session, the assembly of the Estonian-Latin American Parliamentary Group will take place in the Chamber. The group is convened by Mart Nutt, a member of the Riigikogu. We're looking forward to active participation. Now, let's do the presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U6	We will address the items on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the Bill 472 on Amendment to the Liquid Fuel Stock Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? We do not recommend negotiating, so we can start preparing the final vote. Dear colleagues, I will put to the final vote a draft of 472. Please take a stand and vote. There were 86 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Draft Act 472 on the Amendment of the Liquid Fuel Stock Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been passed as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U7	Let's move on to the second item. The first reading of the draft law amending the party law initiated by the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu begins with the first reading of the law amending other laws. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The funding of political parties has been under serious public attention for a long time, as well as criticism, and has caused a number of political turbulence. Funding problems have raised the issue of transparency and credibility of policy, which cannot be ignored in a democratic rule of law. The topic was also remembered for discussion in the Riigikogu, which made three proposals to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U9	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. Good fellows, from every line in the hall and from every corner, there's a lot of noise. I ask you to respect the waitress and those colleagues who want to listen to the draft. Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U10	In view of this situation, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided in June 2012 to adopt its work plan for the revision of the funding of political parties and its monitoring system. The Commission has discussed this issue at many of its meetings. To begin with, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs called on the public to put forward proposals to improve the situation before the summer of 2012. 21 institutions, associations and individuals responded. The bill helped to formalise the Ministry of Justice. In particular, this was done by Kristen Kanarik, adviser to the Public Law Service, to whom I thank for this. The draft has not moved forward quickly, as the issue of money and supervision concerns many interests and raises disputes. The same was true of this bill. In order for the regulations to actually work, we tried to achieve consensus or close coordination between the parties and all parties at all. It all took time and was nervous. The result may not be exactly what the participants offered, but it is an alloy of different concepts and expectations. Only what has been agreed can be done. I can assure you that all the proposals have received attention and have been thoroughly considered. The draft law was initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 23 May 2013. The aim of the draft is to clarify the basis of funding for political parties and to monitor funding in order to make funding regulations clearer and more concrete, as well as supervisory measures and appropriate sanctions more effective. More specifically, the draft clarifies the rules on donation, determines the content of prohibited donations and the procedures for responding to and punishing them. Restrictions on lending activities are laid down in order to prevent lending, and the rules governing the economic activities of the party are specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U11	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. I'll take a one-minute break from the manager.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U12	The chairman's recess is over. Dear waitress, please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U13	I'll keep going. With regard to newly-learned elections, I would like to point out that the draft bans the use of public funds, with the exception of the state budget resources paid under this Act, for the electoral campaign of a candidate who is on the list of a party or party. There will be restrictions on lending to prevent lending, and the rules on the economic activities of the party, to which I have already referred, will be clarified. I would specifically like to highlight support for political parties who have not exceeded the electoral threshold but received at least 2% of the votes from the state budget. This measure should create greater opportunities for new small parties and promote a more equal treatment of political parties, thereby supporting political diversity. The terms of reference of the Political Financing Supervisory Commission will also be extended and the possibility to order audit work will be added. The good news is certainly also a proposal to halve the bail required to register candidates. The draft will be submitted to the first reading in a modified form. The content of the amendment is to exclude the indexation of the amounts received from the state budget by political parties that did not exceed the electoral threshold. The Commission did not consider such legal bindingness to be reasonable or appropriate. The Constitutional Commission s. It was decided at its meeting on 23 September to present the draft as amended at first reading and to propose that the first reading be terminated. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? It is. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U15	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! We have really been discussing all of this for a long time, but the fact that parties falling under the threshold will get some money and bail will be reduced by half, in my opinion, political competition will not increase; it is rather such a coffin-money thing for some parties. But I have two questions. First of all, do I understand correctly that if we adopt this law, in 2014, those who were below the threshold in 2011 will also receive additional money?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U16	Good colleague! You were at all these discussions, and you know that the funding of political parties below the electoral threshold was on our agenda for a long time. We have achieved the result, which is stated in this draft, that the grant amounts to EUR 30000 to EUR 100000, depending on the votes received. That's a lot more than it is now. What's the moment it goes off? I'm assuming it's going to be in general order. This means that if the law is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2014, then this new financing regime will also begin from that moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U17	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U18	Thank you. Dear waitress, In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, I read that donations of foreign origin are banned. However, when I look at the text of the bill, I see that in addition to banning donations of foreign origin, donations of Estonian origin are actually banned. According to the electoral reports, non-citizens living permanently in Estonia have the right to participate in local politics and democratic governance. However, for some reason with this bill, you take the opportunity, for example, of people with grey passports who have lived in Estonia all their lives and earned all their income here, to influence the welfare of their home country, because according to the bill, for example, they cannot donate money to the local election list. Why is it needed, and is this restriction reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U19	This is a way to raise the question, of course, but these rules were established so that the donations made would be transparent, verifiable, and reliable. I do not rule out that we may ever change or revise these rules in the future, but it is now clear where or from which donations may come from. This circle is limited to the citizens of Estonia and the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U20	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The second point of the bill refers to the use of public funds. I know this is a pretty complicated question, precisely in terms of interpreting where this boundary is. It is clear that such cases are rare when a politician or an official has money transferred directly from the budget to cover his campaign expenses, but there are hidden campaigns, such as promoting activities or similar activities. What kind of body do you think might have a discretion here to decide whether or not this limit has been exceeded? If there's no such organ, they're gonna start using yokk schemes again, and it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U22	Thank you! We do not expect this regulation to rule out absolutely all wrongdoing or wrongdoing. We tried to write down the principle in the draft and make it clear that public funds, i.e. public budgets and municipal budgets, may not be used for the electoral interests of political parties and persons on the electoral lists. How to implement this is a question to which the Committee on the Financing of Political Parties and possibly the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption will certainly play a role. So the details will become clear in the course of the work. There are certainly disputes and places to make choices, but I think it is quite hopeless to write down all the details and possible options on the basis of which we should then start looking for misuses. It's important to fix the principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U23	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Of course, it is very welcome and reasonable, of course, for grants to be distributed from the state budget to parties that are below the 5% threshold, according to the number of votes received. This will certainly contribute to the growth of political diversity and will also keep those parties that are under the line until the next measure is taken. Am I right to understand that the money that goes from the state budget to political parties does not increase because we pay it to a larger number of political parties, but rather because parliamentary parties are simply being cut down and distributed to parties that did not get into Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U25	Yes, Mr Kõiv, you have understood very well. This is the way in which it is meant that the overall amount will not increase, but that the part that needs to be paid to those parties that did not exceed the electoral threshold will be reduced from the amount that goes to the political parties. We do not know exactly how many political parties are under the threshold, but the amount needed comes from general funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U26	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U27	Thank you. Good waitress! One subject which has been discussed at length is the reduction in the volume of campaigns. It has two main objectives, which have been discussed. Firstly, it can reduce noise in the information room and focus more on the substantive debate, rather than pumping money into the advertising campaign unbridledly. Secondly, it can reduce pressure on political parties; they should not finance themselves by questionable methods. However, there is no word in this draft, as we are well aware, at this point, which is something that is not being regulated in any way. The Social Democrats have tabled a draft on this subject, and we have also tabled such proposals during this debate. Do you think that, between the first and second readings, we could come up with some common option so that, at second reading, there would also be a provision governing this subject in the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U28	Thank you! I personally share the view that you have just expressed that the costs of campaigns could be more modest and that the volume of campaigns should not be the same as that currently used in practice. It's just an irrational burning of public money. Therefore, I personally would not object if we found some kind of working model or regulation to slow down or control developments of this kind. I do not rule out that there will be a proposal between the first and second readings which will try to regulate this problem in an acceptable or feasible way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U29	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U30	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Of course, as a Member of the Commission, I know how tense and serious the work has been on this draft for a very long time. But we have quite often heard from outside the Commission such opinions that, although they are moving slowly in the Riigikogu, there are many good suggestions, but why they do nothing. Perhaps you will explain to the public a little why it still takes so long to deal with serious drafts in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U31	As I tried to explain in my introduction, money and supervision are things that affect everyone. We are directly involved in this work and the public is also involved here. A wide electorate has its own expectations, attitudes and wishes. Many of these proposals must come together as a working model. There is no need to be sluggish and legitimise one or another option, because every regulation has its consequences and its links, which must all be considered. All of this requires coordination and takes time. Moreover, it is certain that, in order for the regulations that we are trying to provide here to work and fulfil their objective, they should find more or less unanimous support from parliamentary parties. Only then is it possible that this thing will work. We do not need to create regulations simply to get a little bit of a letter, but these regulations will not work later, or even cause new problems. We tried to avoid it. I don't know how well it worked, but we tried. As you, my colleague, well know, we discussed these matters repeatedly among ourselves, within the group and also within the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U32	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U33	Thank you. Dear waitress, You certainly agree that the different treatment of groups of persons must be justified and proportionate. I will return to my first question. For example, if a Cypriot citizen, whom we do not know, donates some kind of money to a political party, it is permitted by this law. But some of the residents of our country, who have lived here and generated income their entire lives and who other members of society know, who they know, who they are connected to, and what economic or political interests they may have, are forbidden by this bill. Is this proportionate and how does it fulfil this objective of increasing transparency in the funding of political parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U34	Thank you! Again, the bill cannot set its purpose to rule out all possible abuses or to stick up all the holes. Of course we're trying to do that. What has now been offered to you is a question of political rationality and choice. Our assumption is that donations from citizens of the European Union within the European Union are more clearly verifiable and supervised than donations from people who are not related to Estonia at citizenship level. Whether this is right or not, it will become clear in the future, but that is why it has been decided in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U35	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U36	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. I'm going to widen the subject. During the preparation of the draft, the Commission also had a large number of proposals wider than the scope of the draft law, but they are all within the remit of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Perhaps you will give an overview of the pace at which we will be able to solve the problems raised by reducing the number of members of the public assembly, such as those required for the formation of a party, the transition to open lists, as well as the issue of the electoral threshold. I will add here the definition of political advertising, which is very important given the experience of the previous election campaign. These things should be regulated before the next elections, partly before the elections to the European Parliament, because we are not only talking about elections to the Riigikogu. What schedule are we gonna be able to move on?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U37	Thank you! Indeed, it is right that things concerning political parties and elections should be done a year before the next Riigikogu elections, i.e. March next year. The current regulation takes into account, in one form or another, the proposals made by the three public bodies, albeit with certain nuances and variations. As for the other issues that you have raised, as we have talked about in the committee, the move could be that if we go ahead with this draft funding, I think that we will move forward in cooperation with it, then the next step will have to be done quickly with regard to the Riigikogu Election Act and with its amendments and adjustments completed the year before the start of the next electoral cycle. There are prerequisites for this. We have talked about this very much, as you know, and there should be an understanding of how and what to regulate. The Commission also mentioned the definition of a political campaign or advertising. In my opinion, it is very difficult when a committee, in this case the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, takes up and starts to define one form of advertising, political advertising. Let's say we can do this in some form, but then there's a question about what we're going to do with this more precise definition. Someone has to make sure that this definition is implemented and respected. Certainly then, new functions would come to the Political Financing Monitoring Commission and not yet known to whom. There will be disputes, but who will solve them? And so on. But personally, I am not at all opposed to the attempt to define the concept of political advertising and thereby to create greater clarity in political action.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U38	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U39	Thank you. Dear waitress, The chairman of your party has repeatedly expressed the opinion that donations from legal persons should be allowed again in Estonia. A few weeks ago in the course of the debate on the Lausing case, we also received confirmation from your party partner, Ants Leetsa, that such a position was represented in your party in several ways. However, we have not had a very serious public debate on this issue, nor have we had a committee debate, especially in this context, that we will allow citizens of the European Union to make donations to political parties from now on. Do you think that the donations of legal persons should be allowed again, and is this a subject that should be debated before this law can be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U40	Thank you! This is a very important subject. Under pressure from the public, we have reached a rather questionable situation in terms of the nature of the party. We have so-called state parties, the funding of political parties is largely from the state budget. I mean, parties are state finance. It is questionable whether this is consistent with the nature of the matter. The party should be in a political process between the electorate, individual individuals and the state, but not to feed on the country's party. Therefore, there should be a reasonable balance between the funds collected or donated by the party itself and the resources of the state budget. I think we've lost some of that balance. One thing that, in my opinion, would help to reduce the problem of so-called 'black money' is the legalisation of the donations of legal persons to political parties. Sounds scary at first, but if we set strict conditions for these donations to be transparent and verifiable, I will not see a very big problem there. For example, during the discussion of the so-called NASA Bill, there was such a solution that if the company has an impeccable history of activities in Estonia, is registered here or elsewhere in the European Union and there is a limit to these donations, what is so bad about it? If we don't see this channel coming, the money's gonna start looking for extraterrestrial roads, and we're facing new and worse problems. I believe that things should be regulated, transparent and verifiable. If that is the case, I do not see a major problem in allowing the donations of legal persons. But that's my opinion, I'm not talking about anybody else here. It is possible that we will come back to this issue between the first reading and the second reading of the draft. But it really is a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U41	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Good front speaker! I was under the impression that your response to Indrek Saare and what you answered to Mr Ossinovski was a bit of a contradiction. You spoke about transparent funding and that maybe legal persons should have the opportunity to support political parties again. Evgeny Ossinovsky's question showed that he did not understand it. I didn't get it either. If an entrepreneur operating in Estonia, whose interests are known to us but who is not a citizen, makes a donation, what makes this donation more suspicious or questionable than the donation of any citizen of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U43	Thank you. I don't think I understood the question very well. Donations must be verifiable and transparent, as far as possible. If we firmly fix the number of individuals who can donate and the extent and order of the donation, the donation will become more reliable and serve its purpose better if it does so in a situation where all of this is unregulated. I do not rule out that the regulation we are proposing needs to be improved or amended in any way, but we came to this result after long discussions. The Members of the Commission and the people who consulted us and expressed their views felt that this would be a sensible solution. But if it's the perfect solution, I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U44	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U45	Thank you. I tried to get into this final debate. The permanent resident of Estonia has been granted the right to participate in politics when voting in municipal elections; he or she can also be checked as a tax resident, if necessary, by the Political Financing Supervisory Commission. However, I would argue that in the course of the year, two or three, we will not receive any data from Cyprus on the European Union citizen who has donated to one of our parties. Is it reasonable to restrict the circle of people who can donate internally, but to make the circle wider outside our country, where we cannot easily access this data elsewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U46	I agree with you that this is a problem. However, a person with a permanent residence permit is only part of the political process, but his or her activity is indeed, in economic and financial terms, transparent or verifiable at least to some extent. It is possible that, in the course of the future debate, we will come to what the questioner has now proposed or is concerned about. I'm not gonna rule it out at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U47	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Commission waitress. I am not a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and my question may seem naive and simple in the light of previous questions. Let me give you a concrete example. A person who holds a grey passport and whose child, relative or good friend is applying for the election of local governments shall transfer the money to the applicant's bank account, who shall use it to cover his or her election expenses. If the candidate submits a report on the election costs, does it appear that this money was not acceptable? This person with a grey passport cannot donate directly, but he wants to support his child, who is a citizen of the Republic of Estonia. This proposed regulation gives rise to all sorts of tricks, I dare say, carrying money with a plastic bag.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U49	We offer that donations from natural persons would have a limit of EUR 1200 per year, or EUR 100 per month. According to this draft, only funds of unknown origin are prohibited. If the origin of the money is known and it's declared, then it's okay. I don't see any problem here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U50	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Indrek Saare, representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U51	Hello, colleagues. I'll start with what the waitress said. Good Rait Maruse, as far as I know, this bill does say that the upper limit is cash donations, other donations have no upper limit fixed. If donated using a bank transfer, you can donate as much as you want, there is no limit to it. I am pleased that there has been a debate on these issues. However, I do not think that the draft law, as it stands before us, is far from sufficient to make all the changes that are expected in society. It is certainly positive that there will be a slight increase in the support of political parties who receive 2 to 5% of the votes in the Riigikogu elections. They, too, are now able to act in the inter-election period, participate in the next elections and then apply for more voter support. It is certainly positive that the penalty for participation in the Riigikogu elections will be reduced twice. Whether this is enough for Riigikogu elections to be well accessible to smaller parties is still the place for the question. I must say that we have not taken a step forward in reducing the volume of campaigns. Why it would be necessary, so much has been said in society that I will not spend our time on it anymore. But the fact that we haven't been able to offer any version to discuss for the first reading is sad to me. After all, this is one of the things that has been demanded in society with a very clear voice over the last year and a half. It was also one of the most important proposals of the Riigikogu that the President presented to the Riigikogu. However, I hope that, between the first and second readings, the political parties represented in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will have sufficient will to limit the volume of campaigns. Another thing that cannot be very happy about is the distribution of state budget resources. There's your positive side, as I said, because this distribution is now more equal. But the Social Democrats have spoken, also supporting the popular assembly's proposal that the funds should be distributed in such a way that 50% is distributed on the basis of the number of votes received and 50% distributed to those political parties represented in the Riigikogu. This would mean that political parties under the electoral threshold would still receive much more money than they would receive on the basis of this bill. The resources of the political parties represented in the Riigikogu would also to some extent be equalised. I am very sorry that we have not been able to approach this goal very much. The question is, of course, that the political parties in the Riigikogu are generously giving up a little more money to the political parties below the line, but at the same time those parties who have so far received some symbolic support, those who have collected 1 to 2% of the voting rights in the Riigikogu elections, are left dry with this bill. I think this should be discussed seriously. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U52	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U53	The third issue, I think, is very serious: donations, which we discussed here for a long time. I am pleased that there has been a debate on this issue. One side of this issue, which has occasionally been through discussions, but which has not been seriously discussed in society for some reason, is the donations of legal persons. I do not think it has been clarified why they should not be made or why they should be made. I hope that this debate is ahead of us, and we will be clear before we make final decisions. There are certainly pros and cons, especially in this context, when we allow donations to be made to private individuals who are citizens of the European Union, whose real background and economic activity are very difficult to control. It can spread very great question marks and doubts. Since legal persons are not allowed to make donations in this context, I find it very questionable. Particularly sad about this bill, as well as the debates we have held here, is that people living in our country who contribute to this society, who want to participate in this society and who have this opportunity under our laws, at least by making election decisions in local elections, but they are being sent another signal that they are not equal to the rest of the people living in Estonia, they are not even equal to those living in Latvia, Bulgaria, Italy, England or anywhere. In terms of funding political parties, it is not so important, but I think that there is a connection here with the heated debate after the elections, whether we look to the non-citizens living in Estonia, but to the people permanently living here with respect, and we want them to participate in society more and more, to integrate, to feel like dignified members of this society, or to send them another signal that they are not welcome to express their opinion or participate in society. The decision to give European Union citizens the opportunity to donate to political parties and intervene in Estonian politics in the light of the new decision of the Riigikogu Board is particularly funny. The Board of the Riigikogu decided that the citizens of the European Union are not welcome in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, because if they came here, this would mean interfering with Estonia's internal politics. Such a duality is very startling to say. However, I hope that this bill will evolve and that we will also be able to be a little more coherent in our decisions on the latter issue, and that everyone will contribute to making this draft a good bill. Good luck to all of us! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-24_U54	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 439 amendments. November 7th at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the second item is also closed. Good fellows, the hearing is closed. Closure of the sitting at 10.49 a.m.
