ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the second Tuesday session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association and the Reform Party, I am handing over a draft law amending the Water Act and the Waste Act, which may also be called an anti-smell draft. It is known that hundreds of millions of euros have been invested in the treatment of drinking water and in the collection and treatment of waste water. The final step in this series is investing in the treatment of sewage sludge in order to ensure an environmentally friendly process and a high-quality compost. The poor quality of the treatment of sediment is often the reason why people in several Estonian cities are struggling with environmental disturbance, or smell, spreading from the sewage treatment plant. It spreads over time, reducing people's quality of life, causing stress and thus harming their health. The draft intends to take several steps to put an end to the spread of the smell. Firstly, the draft has more specifically regulated the building of the sewers. Secondly, there is a clear requirement that there should be no environmental degradation since then. The draft contains deadlines. Although people are waiting for a solution now, it makes sense to give companies 5 to 10 years of time, so that everyone can find an individual solution that is the most appropriate and reasonable one. I hope that the procedure for the draft will take place in the same mutual understanding and cross-party environment as I have experienced in dealing with politicians in several municipalities whose inhabitants are suffering from the smell. Our common concern is that we must improve people's living environment and increase the number of healthy life years, i.e. simply improve the quality of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U3	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm here about an inquiry. The precision of the financial affairs of non-profit companies has earned a tremendous interest. Our question, however, is about the accuracy of the state's finances. All the figures in this document come from a document such as the consolidated annual report of the State for 2012 prepared by the Ministry of Finance. From there you can read that the Riigikogu allocated 476 million euros to the Ministry of the Environment. The report calls the amount that we have confirmed here, for some reason the original. The report shows that the Ministry of the Environment used EUR 244 million (this is then the number of executions) but compares it with a third amount from a place called the final budget in the report, which is EUR 277 million. We therefore considered it appropriate to ask the Minister for the Environment what he thinks of this matter. We have constitutional questions for him. For example, if we adopt the initial budget, who in Estonia has the right to adopt the final budget, and this is certainly not the Riigikogu? We also have substantive questions. For example, since the Minister was allocated EUR 476 million but used 244 of it, what tasks were not fulfilled? Finally, we have such a simple question for the Minister for the Environment: what kind of money was he responsible for spending, whether it was the original or God knows whose confirmed final amount was spent?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U5	Thank you very much. On behalf of the board, I have adopted one bill and one inquiry. If the draft law complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board will decide to adopt it within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. Now, one message. Wednesday, s. The following members of government will attend Question Time on 18 September: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U6	Today's first item is an overview of the activities of the Estonian Development Fund in 2012-2013. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you how we deal with this item. After a presentation by Tõnis Arro, the Chairman of the Board of the Development Fund, each person can ask him a question. Then there will be negotiations, where only the representatives of the political groups will get the floor. I ask the Chair of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund, Tõnis Arro!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U7	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. I am pleased to present you with a report on our activities. I'm talking about what we've done in a year, since our last meeting, and a little bit of what we're going to do next. As you will remember, the Riigikogu has established a development fund on the basis of law in order to contribute to the development of the Estonian economy in order to create innovative companies and jobs with high added value. We currently have four areas of activity: investment and three areas of monitoring and development. I am going to say a few words about everyone, and I am going to take a closer look at the recent areas. Our new field of activity is a clever specialization. Launching this field of activity over the year has meant a breakthrough for us in the fact that our monitoring activities are now directly linked to investment. It used to be relatively separate. Smart specialisation is known to be the European Union's strategy, which is dealt with by all 220 European regions, as one of them Estonia. The existence of such a strategy is a prerequisite for obtaining structural funds. Work on choosing smart specialisation areas has been carried out throughout the year under the leadership of Kristjan Lepik, involving a large number of entrepreneurs and various interested parties. As a result, three priority areas have been selected. This does not mean that other areas of R &amp; D will not be supported, but it will simply be given a certain advantage. These areas have been chosen on the basis that the field must have great potential in both science and entrepreneurship. If you put together R &amp; D and entrepreneurship, something new could happen. The bottlenecks in these areas are now being clarified, rather the work has been completed, and measures are being developed. The role of the Development Fund will continue to contribute to the implementation of a smart specialisation strategy. I am not going to tell you more about the areas of growth and their bottlenecks, because all this is available on our website, but I am going to mention one common bottleneck that we are trying to contribute to in this process. Our universities have little applied research and companies use little of these research. Our role is to try to find a way for companies to cooperate more with universities. We have one concrete lever for this, namely investment or capital, which we can offer to emerging knowledge-intensive companies. So much for clever specialization. If we look at support for knowledge-intensive entrepreneurship, this activity should lead to the fact that if the first Skype was still a happy coincidence, then the next Skype that will be born in Estonia should be the result of systematic work. I hope our contribution is strong in this too. The next area I am talking about is the green economy and energy. They too have largely taken this form in our activities this year; there is a new team and new policies. Here, our main achievement is that we have established good cooperation links with a wide range of interested parties. As a result of our activities, many inputs have been created into the national energy economic development plan, which is being prepared by a number of public authorities. I will not dwell on this for a long time, but I will talk about some examples in this area. For example, in the think-tank that I will hand over to you all at the end of my report, our Green Leader writes that if we could achieve 10% energy savings for every energy consumer at home, it would be EUR 900 million a year. Energy cooperatives are one of the options that could lead to this. We are currently developing a pilot project concept and the implementation of this project is under development. I hope that we will get to the point where we can say what is needed to enable more energy cooperatives to develop or to become mass. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures coming under this item, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission under ad hoc service contracts. Another example of our activities in the green economy is the energy market website, which can be accessed from our website and has an address at www.energiatalgud.ee. It is a whirlwind environment where all those people who have the competence to think about the energy economy are working, and anyone who wants to work can work with it. It's not really public, you have to send an entry request. Everyone is welcome to look at, read and complete these documents. Today, more than 300 people will participate, and the public information on this website will soon be opened. Now I am talking about my favourite subject, entrepreneurship monitoring and development, which I was mainly talking about last year. As you will remember, I showed you a picture of the "Entrepreneur Estonia" programme. We were going to run this program, and we had been planning it for a long time. We had been told that, yes, it had to be done. You'll probably remember the number 100,000. It's remembered even by people who don't remember what it was 100,000 about. I've been accused of wanting to set up 100,000 new businesses. It has been asked where these workers come from and so on. In fact, I was talking about giving 100,000 people entrepreneurship training and tiger jumps. For various reasons, we have not started this programme. If you ask me why, I recall a story from a book that many of you have read. The warden explained to the mayor why he couldn't arrange a salute for the king's reception. He pointed out 20 reasons and, in terms of persuasion, added another: no powder. Our main reason is that we don't have any gunpowder, or money for this program. This is not so much because we are not wanted to give it, even though there may have been some of these moments there, but mainly because there is much less money planned in the Structural Funds for the development of entrepreneurship in the coming period than expected or when it was last year. That is why our partners, such as the EAS and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, have shared very precisely what someone is doing. We have agreed that what we called the Tiger Jump of Entrepreneurship, i.e. extensive entrepreneurship training and entrepreneurial communication, will be mainly left to the EAS, who will do it successfully and with our help perhaps a little better than so far. Our focus will be on technology companies with world potential, namely Start-up Estonia, which was previously run by EAS. I think it's a good solution and the right decision. Now a little bit more of what I talked about last year, and I promised to clarify what I was about to say. Here is a picture of what Estonian entrepreneurship is like at all. I will take some insights into this, based on global entrepreneurship monitoring, which is the world's largest entrepreneurial study, which is being carried out for the second year with scientists, under the leadership of the Development Fund. As you can see, there are more than 100,000 grown-ups who go around thinking that they could ever become entrepreneurs. I was talking about 100,000, but there's 120,000 of them. This, of course, does not mean that they all set up a business. Those who do something to start a business (they are called early-stage entrepreneurs, they are people who are already looking for resources, partners or spaces to start a business) are already much less, only 14% of adults. Only 7% of established enterprises with an enterprise older than three years of age. If in three years' time this picture is as shown by the data collected last year, we can say that the survival rate of companies in Estonia is 2: 1. Two companies are set up, but one survives. That's a concern. Another concern is that if we ask established companies whether they want to employ 20 people in the next two years or whether they are doing something that no one has done yet, or whether they want to go to a new market, the answer is usually no. These tendencies are a cause for concern. Estonia's small business, however, most Estonian companies are like this: the entrepreneur is mostly a man, he has a couple of subordinates, he has attended a school or a business course and he doesn't want to do much and his company has little added value. The main reason why business is stopped is often that there is no profit. So they say: they stopped paying taxes and salaries and stopped doing so. Let's take a look at the neighboring countries. In the Nordic countries, the main reason for losing business is to retire. The company has raised a pension pillar in its work and if it no longer wants or can't deal with the company, it will hand it over to the son, sell it or anything. Yes, in large companies the picture is better, there is more added value. They are also often owned by foreigners. If we look at the overall picture of the economy, it is small businesses that are the most. They create two thirds of our gross domestic product. When we talk about where the highest added value is created, these are innovative technology companies that want to conquer the world, such as Skype or Modesa. Those who create new jobs are also mainly small companies and it is these successful start-up companies. Skype is currently employing around 500 people, employing between 400 and 500 people. Is that a remarkable order of magnitude? It is true that the value added there is very high, estimated at about 70,000, or much higher than in the best large companies in Estonia. But still, does this mean a significant change in the economy? Let's take a look at this picture that shows the real effect of Skype. This picture has been compiled by Sten Tamkivi. This big blue bubble in the middle is Skype itself, and these other small dots are companies that have grown from or come from Skype in this or another way. That's pretty impressive. Another impressive thing is that Skype's founders, who were four Estonian engineers, two Scandinavian business leaders and Estonian venture capital (sorry, Skype's venture capital was not founded by Estonian venture capital, but by foreign venture capital, who earned very well with this transaction), these first-round investors earned about a hundred times the return on their investment. What's it to us, we could say. But it is our business that the money that these four people together represented about 1% of Estonia's gross domestic product at that time. This 1% came back to the Estonian economy in this or another way. For example, there is a company here called Modesa. It was founded thanks to the investment fund set up by the creators of Skype, the investment of the development fund and the engineers of Belarus and Estonia. By including venture capital, it was possible to hire an American business manager and as a result sell this company to Xilinx, an American listed company. The development centre continues to work in Estonia, and this is great because there are high-paid engineers working there. But it would be even nicer if the owners put their money back together and invested in the Estonian economy. I have some circumstantial information that that's the plan they have. In this book, to which I am pleased to refer, Allan Martinson writes that we should not so much aim for high value-added jobs, which are, of course, nice things, but it would be even nicer if we had knowledge-based capitalists. The emergence of a class of knowledge-based capitalists is a remarkable goal in itself. I think this is the main objective of how our investment activities will contribute seriously to the Estonian economy. The average circle on this slide represents the Estonian economy or Estonian companies. There are more small companies among them, there are also some technology companies. The circle is surrounded by people who are still considering whether they will become entrepreneurs. There's a whole bunch of institutions around there. The two organisations closest to the Development Fund, which are partly established with our support, are the Association of Estonian Business Angels and the Estonian Private and Venture Capital Association. Business angels, as people who often invest with us, are a very important force in the Estonian economy. These are wealthy individuals who are investing together, and if they were not, we could not make our own investments, because we always invest equally with private investors. If it weren't for us, they couldn't make their investments because the risk would be too high. Let's take a look at the map. There are supposedly 300 companies in the Baltics of this kind that could be our target, they are companies that are interested in venture capital. They have something new and they want to sell it to the whole world, they have the ambition and potential to conquer the world. We can be proud that it is estimated that 200 of them are located in Estonia. We can be proud of this and say that, very nicely, we are Europe's most awesome start-up country with the most innovative technology companies, as many have written and thought. But we think it's still not enough. If there are 200 such companies in Estonia, even though it is 80% of the total number of Baltics, there should be more of these innovative companies in order to get 200 success stories, the so-called tube that brings out the good companies should be bigger. Our understanding is that this pipe should come from our neighbouring countries. We should create such a platform to some extent it already arises, so that it is known worldwide that it is best to start a new company in Estonia. We have a pretty good experience. Last week started operating in Startup Wise Guy, a business accelerator with the participation of the Development Fund, with eight teams from seven countries, a few from Estonia. There are teams from India, Russia and elsewhere. We've already had two groups like this. The principle of the business accelerator is that companies are selected by competition and those who are accepted will be invested in a business accelerator where we have a stake of about 50%, EUR 15000, and receive an 8% share in this company. The teams will be here for three months, and during this period they will be developed and supported. At the end of the acceleration period, when there is a presentation to investors in Estonia and London, they should be able to receive additional investment. The companies that have finished our accelerator have already received more than a million euros of additional investment, which is a very good result. Why are they coming here? This picture has a relatively random selection of web and paper pages in the business field. Important keywords are the hottest start-up capital and so on (about Tallinn). Our reputation in this world of investments and new start-ups is quite good. In this book, which I have already talked about, our business accelerator manager, Mike, who has been a foreigner working in Estonia for the second year, suggests that Estonia should become such a start-up hub, where not eight companies should be brought together, but perhaps a hundred start-up companies, as Chile does. A hundred start-up companies will be taken once a year into the Chilean state-supported business accelerator Start-Up Chile. There are also some Estonian companies now. A lot of people who have been there say that if they ever start doing business on this continent, the land they're going to do is definitely Chile. The marketing and public relations effect that the Chilean State has obtained by supporting this accelerator has certainly already paid off to them. Mike tells him in his own flying way that this business accelerator could be set up at the Seaplane Harbour. In my opinion, he does not mean that the success story of our tourism should be replaced by something else, but that he thinks that this place should be somewhat airy. But there are nice houses near the Seaplane Harbour that are unhappyly empty. Patarei prison or city hall might be better suited for this business accelerator. If we were to do this kind of thing, there would be some kind of industry around here, or some kind of sagin-sagin-sagin. Of course, in order to make such a hub, we need money and, unfortunately, we have less money than the average in European countries. Estonian venture capital investments at an early stage are about half as low as in the European Union on average, unfortunately still smaller than in Latvia or Lithuania. But most of all, of course, it takes these start-ups to come here, because where there is, there will be more. Why not dream that we can do this, just as Skype's ex-director, Sten Tamkivi, in this book suggests that we should ask more: "What if...? ' Finally, I'm talking about our investment activity. To sum up, we have successfully invested, we are the only venture capital fund in the early phase that operates in Estonia. We have invested roughly EUR 9 million and the value of our investment, according to audited data, is EUR 11 million. The total number of investments has been 18, of which 14 are now active, bigger and more interesting, or more successful, are presented at the top of this slide. The biggest success story of GrabCAD has received almost 11 million euros of additional investments since our investment, Fits. We're over five million euros, and so on. These are successful and well-functioning companies. We have reason to believe that both our investment activities and our entire portfolio will have a positive outcome. What's the point of our investment? That we have to overcome the market failure. A market failure means that early investment is too risky for a private investor. That's one. Secondly, we need to work on developing the venture capital market. You may remember that, at the beginning of the year, the Board of the Development Fund decided, on my proposal, to abandon direct investment and switch to fund investments, which means that we invest in private funds in an equal manner with private investors. This idea was supported by almost all market players. However, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications decided to set up a fund of funds in KredEx instead. Essentially, we are in a situation where we need to continue to invest directly, because they need to be done at least until the fund of funds starts, but probably after that. So a good idea came about in a slightly different way. I hope that the fund of funds that will be set up in KredEx will soon come to the market with successful private funds and we will continue to invest directly. Our direct investment is characterised by another interesting fact: for every million we have invested, other investors have invested three million. It can be said that this investment activity, which, through the development fund and our investment company SmartCap, gives Estonian companies a chance to emerge and develop, has brought more than three times as much money into the Estonian economy as we have spent investing in it. I think it's a good result. I guess that's the time to conclude. We can say that our investment has been successful. We have a positive investment portfolio, we are developing it further and we are doing everything we can to bring more investments and new interesting investors to the Estonian market who are active on the Estonian market. We have very specific plans for this. Secondly, we are supported by various monitoring and growth programmes. While it used to be a bit problematic that investment and monitoring activities in the development fund were quite separate phenomena, they are now fairly well integrated. As regards monitoring activities, I would also like to add that there has been a fundamental change in both areas, which I talked about in terms of smart specialisation and green economy and energy, which I told you about a year ago. We don't do surveillance for ourselves. We can start something, but then we have to find a partner who's interested in the result we want to give him. We have a busy team. The Development Fund employs 18 people and a dozen fixed-term or non-staff members with our subsidiary SmartCap. Our economic situation is good. We have saved some of the costs, to the greatest extent the office costs. We have good cooperation with all our partners, I mean ministries, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of the Environment, also the EAS, with whom we did not have a very good understanding at the beginning, but I think this is really very good now. I think we have some room for improvement in terms of cooperation with our owner or the general meeting, or you. I suggest we think together about how to deepen our relationship. We will be happy to come to the meetings of the political groups or committees to hear your thoughts on what we could do better. Thank you all for your support, and thank you also to all the partners who have helped us to do everything we do. One more important thing, though. I mentioned that thought book several times. It appears for the first time. There are 24 essays on the future of Estonia, seven or eight of them written by our own people, the rest by our good friends and partners. It's nice to dream. I'm glad you read it and share your thoughts with us. To this end, there is an open online environment where you can comment on and further develop the ideas expressed in the book. Of course, we are pleased if you invite any of us to discuss any of the ideas presented here further. These books are available in the shelf at the back of the hall. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U8	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Siim Kabrits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U9	Dear waitress, For 20 years, the economy of a large country has managed to grow by nearly 10% a year, but a small country like Estonia cannot even achieve 5% economic growth. The 5% growth rate is €800.900 million per year, which is not a very high amount. I'm asking your opinion. What is behind this year's economic growth in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U10	If I knew the one and only reason, I might get a Nobel Prize. But I think one of the main drivers of economic growth is entrepreneurial dynamics. It is not only the birth of new businesses that matters, but also the fact that if new, efficient and better businesses are born, some companies will die out and become an important engine for economic growth. That's the lever we're trying to pry with our actions. I think it's one of the most important things.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U11	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U12	Thank you. Good waitress! I congratulate you on your interesting talk and the right trends in the development fund and in your activities. I will return to what you mentioned in your speech. Suddenly, the mandate to deal with fund investments is given to KredEx, not to you. Perhaps you can comment on why the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications made such a decision? Does this mean that KredEx must begin to create competence in this field and take on more employees? Where do these instruments come from, and why could it not have been left to the development fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U13	The right answer would be the Minister of Economic Affairs here. In our opinion, yes, it would be more appropriate to build a fund of funds on the experience of a public investment company with state-established experience and six years of experience. That was our proposal, and that is why we came up with this idea. Our idea was that the Structural Funds money used by KredEx as an implementing unit would have been invested in a fund of funds that we and KredEx would have set up. There are also experts who have the competence to build up the fund of funds in Estonia so that the competence of managing the fund of funds in addition to the competence of direct investment can immediately arise. There were probably reasons why the Ministry of Economic Affairs decided otherwise. I understand that the main reason was that KredEx is an accredited user of structural funds money and that organisations with accreditation were not wanted to make more. Of course, that wouldn't have been an obstacle. The current situation does not prevent KredEx from deciding to become our partner and to set up a fund of funds in a development fund instead of setting up a virtual fund itself. I see a lot of advantages when it's done that way. But I accept the decision that has been made. The most important thing is that the fund of funds is created because the fund of funds creates sub-funds that invest directly in companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U14	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U15	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! In order for the company to be successful, it requires employees at all levels, from smart top management to cleaner. Unfortunately, there is a trend in Estonia where the simplest workers are the hardest to find. For example, it is quite difficult to find cleaners and dishwashers in hotels and restaurants in Tallinn, although their salaries are in some hotels of the same size as those of higher education cultural workers. However, if you look at trends elsewhere in Europe, even with our northern neighbours, you can't find an indigenous Finn or an indigenous Swede in a hotel as a janitor or as a dishwasher. How does the Development Fund look at what Estonia should do to ensure that our labour market develops in a balanced way? Perhaps you are also talking about immigration, how many borders should be opened or closed? What's your point?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U16	My main point is that the issue of low-skilled labour, or elementary labour, should be dealt with separately from the issue of qualified labour. It seems to me that the problem with talking about foreign labour is often that these things are spoken together and in almost one sentence, as you have done now. Our main concern is that if we want to bring into one of our technology start-ups from abroad 10,000 euros paid, labour costs are unfairly high and often this becomes a problem for a small start-up. For example, the introduction of a social tax ceiling, which businesses have been talking about for a long time, would be helpful here. But as far as elementary labour is concerned, this is a serious problem. If we Estonians do not want to do some work, then we must accept that someone else will come and do it. But the Lithuanians, who have largely migrated to England and Ireland, I don't think they want to come here again. We need to find someone who wants to come to us if we can't arrange for smart vacuum cleaners to dust or if our own children want to do this kind of work.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U17	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U18	Thank you. Good waitress, thank you so much for your presentation. I have a formal remark first. True, last week, the Committee on Economic Affairs heard your oral report on what you have done in the last year, but unfortunately, we have not had any written overview of this activity so far. In fact, I wanted to ask you about the subject you were talking about here, namely the creation of an entrepreneurial environment, or the 'Entrepreneur Estonia' pilot project. I remember that when you were here last year, you spoke about this pilot project, about the training of many people, about the training of entrepreneurship trainers, etc. I remember asking you about the EUR 1.21 million you missed. I asked if it was in the 2013 budget, and you replied that it was. Now it turns out it wasn't and there's no money. What is it anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U19	Thank you for the clarification. This money, which was to be financed by the Entrepreneurship Estonia programme, was money from the Structural Funds. From this point of view, it is intended as a programme financed by the Structural Funds and not as a programme financed by the operating costs of the Development Fund. Indeed, EUR 1.2 million is foreseen for the operational expenditure of the Development Fund and, as I understand it, it will also be included in the draft budget for next year. This plan that the "Entrepreneur Estonia" programme would be run by the Development Fund was more or less certain a year ago. We have spent a year explaining and explaining many meetings, and we finally realized that EAS can do something on business days that we described as our motivational days. We will continue to deal with the business coaching project, to some extent with monitoring and communication activities, perhaps with this book as a modest step, and with the creation of a public debate, but the focus of direct development will be on those companies in which we directly want or can invest, and we will focus attention on more of these companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U20	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Thank you for your overview of the activities. My question concerns a quote from the Development Fund thinkbook 2013: 'We are building museums, overpasses and tunnels instead of building kindergartens, schools and sports halls where people live. " In your slides, you mentioned good partners, several ministries. As we know, we will soon have a new national budget and also a new period of structural resources for the European Union. Could you explain this quote a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U22	I should've done that disclaimer right from the start. We have invited others, friends, and partners to write in the book, but we are not responsible for all the thoughts they have made. The author of the article should be asked for clarification. I really don't want to comment on it or explain it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U23	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U24	Thank you for your good presentation. My question concerns this fund of funds, which my colleague, Mr Aas, has already talked about. As one of the reasons for making its decision, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications pointed out that other market participants do not value highly the investment activities of the Development Fund. How do you comment on that? Personally, I have not heard any bad comments about your actions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U25	Neither am I. If someone in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications said that, I'd like to hear who it is and why he thinks it is. I think that we and the market participants understand very well that if there is, in some sense, a core or network centre of the Estonian'start-up' community, it is still around the development fund, SmartCap, our investment company. I'm sure you can always do better. However, if one institution has made investments for six years and has made mistakes, but the other institution has never made any investment, then I do not understand this argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U26	Reet Roos, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U27	Dear waitress, I've heard mostly good things about you. But I'm gonna start by asking if we can get these slides to e-mail. They didn't look too good in the rear lines. That was an introductory question. Secondly, I would ask you to list again, by bringing investors in, which, in addition to the common concerns, are still your problems, which could be pointed out. Perhaps the Development Fund or the entire Estonian state could also take some tricks from Chile?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U28	Thank you. The main difficulty in getting investors is that there is little money. Another difficulty is that there are few companies in which to invest. There's two sides. If we are very successful in our actions aimed at creating these companies, the lack of money will immediately become an obstacle. It can be said that we are an investment fund with EUR 30 million, of which nine million have been invested. We are likely to make another one or two new investments this year, six or seven new investments next year, as long as we have enough capital. Then we'll start growing that briefcase. For companies in the investment portfolio, growth is still ongoing, but our goal is to get out of these companies as profitable as possible. I can't tell you what other problems might be. One problem in raising companies is that, in most cases, this type of company has been set up by two talented young people who have never run or done business before. Then at some point, we need to bring in an experienced business manager. This is the subject that Margus Uudam, our good partner, writes about in this book. The most successful start-up companies are about 35 years old, but the most successful start-up companies are people of 20 years old. If we look at a 35-year-old successful person, he's probably working in a bank, he's got kids, house leases and cars, and his risk appetite is relatively low because of his responsibility to his family. He doesn't usually have the financial buffer, the money he could invest in his company after taking himself off the job. We have been thinking about one addition to the start-up hub in Estonia, the creation of an incubator for mature people. A 35-year-old person could come and get a salary from this incubator who could ideally be a private company for a year or six months so that his quality of life does not fall very quickly or to a large extent. Against this, the incubator holder would later be able to take part in the establishment. The other option is that this person is going to be a co-founder of a new start-up. There are some companies in our accelerator that have young people who are able to find very excellent technological solutions, but who need more business competence in order for the company to fly. As far as Chile's experience is concerned, one very remarkable thing that has been done there is that the person who has been accepted into the incubator more or less automatically receives a residence permit for a year. He's got a separate door where he goes in, the green carpet's down. That's one thing. The recent amendments to the Foreign Law will also help us in this direction. We had a Chilean team in Startup Wise Guy last year. One of them was here with a Schengen visa, which ran out of validity during this accelerator programme. The usual answer he received from the officials was to go home and apply for a new visa. But it's going to take so long, the program would have ended by now. I was positively surprised at how our authorities solved this problem. The visa was extended and this person could stay here until the end of the program.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U29	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, dear waitress. The whole world's hunting for the brains. Smart heads will be found in every corner of the world. In your essay book, one author has mentioned the lack of qualified labour as a major obstacle to development. The role of human society is to develop the abilities of every human being as best as possible. How do you assess the ability of our society to develop the abilities of each individual so that the brains are not lost and this obstacle is reduced in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U31	Thank you. That is a very good and also very broad question. I am trying to narrow this issue to my own domain. I think one of the most valuable resources in our society is entrepreneurial people. This resource could be better stored and cultivated. In fact, it is already possible to see in kindergarten who is entrepreneurial and who is not. This does not mean that everyone should be entrepreneurs, but if we do not have businesses, we have nothing at all, we do not have money, we do not have money, and so on. As a result, the early recognition, support and development of enterprising people at all levels is very important. I think there is much room for improvement here, as in many other areas relating to human resources, but it is still very clear in business. Man is the most enterprising at the beginning of adolescence and the peak period of entrepreneurialism ends around the time of university graduation. Unfortunately, the education system does not support the growth of entrepreneurship at that time, but it suppresses it, rather, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U32	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U33	Thank you. On the basis of your previous response, I am a little concerned by the statement in your generally very positive presentation that comprehensive entrepreneurial training tends to run down. What about that? You've given me the reason that there's not enough gunpowder. If this function goes to EAS, where does EAS take the money or gunpowder if you don't have it? Is it a tendency to disperse your functions, purpose, and lines of action in any way? We were talking about KredEx, and now this. Doesn't that in any way damage the whole business activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U34	Thank you for your question. I hope it doesn't. But what is not under our control, we cannot influence that much. That was one of the reasons why we wanted to carry out entrepreneurship training ourselves. I hope that the good cooperation that has developed will enable us to help the EAS in this respect. Referring to a shortage of resources means that if resources are much less than in the previous period, but many projects from the past require additional funding, which has already been taken into account, there will be less money for new things. That is, to sum up, the reason. Neither will EAS find this money, he will do what he has done so far, hopefully a little better than before. There are some signs of that. It is a learning organisation that I hope will also be able to do a little better in cooperation with us.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U35	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the waitress for a good presentation. I will continue on the same subject. A surge in entrepreneurship also requires a exponential increase in contribution. Unfortunately, as you just said, EAS is doing a little better than it has done so far, but it is not helping to increase entrepreneurial activity exponentially. How do you see the role of the local network in ensuring entrepreneurial activity and innovation? What do you think this local network is? When we are talking about county development centres, they are primarily engaged in self-creating or already existing counselling. When we talk about local governments, I recall that the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has carried out a survey on the business-friendliness of local governments. 70% of respondents replied that local governments are not very conducive to entrepreneurship. How do you see this local network?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U37	I think there's a lot of room for improvement. There are different local business counselling centres, there are many different activities, development centres also have different tasks that their owners have assigned them. I believe there is much room for improvement, but I do not have a very clear answer on what should be done. I also know from our study that business clinics do not play a major role in becoming an entrepreneur. Most people who become entrepreneurs say that they received advice from another entrepreneur. In fact, it follows from this that we should create a situation in which any interested entrepreneur can meet with a few entrepreneurs. This could also be the role of local clinics, creating an environment where local well-known entrepreneurs come to talk to young people. I hope they do a lot of that. However, business consultants on public wages in this way or in another way do not have a very high level of support value for start-ups.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U38	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Tõnis Arro! We have seen and discussed quite a number of aspects here today. You have repeatedly emphasised that the Riigikogu could engage in dialogue with your organisation. But I'm asking you this way. In the last half of the year, all those who talk about how badly we are doing have become quite popular in Estonia. Recently, it has been said that the interest of foreign investors in us has diminished; we do not have much hope here. A number of aspects have been highlighted as to why this is the case. Looking at the Estonian Development Fund, do you have any ideas to pass on to the Riigikogu in order for foreign investors to be interested in us again?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U40	I do not think that foreign investors have little interest in us. Every day we negotiate with partners looking for companies in Estonia to invest in. True, they're looking for small companies, the ones we do. We have several partners and we talk to several of them very seriously about how to help them enter the Estonian market, whether we create a partnership or whether they will work with us or something like that. You're probably talking about big companies that want to set up big factories here. It's really not really my thing. For example, if you give them free land and set up national science parks, then I must say that this has been done in some countries, but these parks have stopped empty. I don't know if that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U41	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U42	Dear waitress, I would like to thank you both for your presentation and for this book. It's been a long time since I've seen a book that invites you to read. I'll read it quickly. But here's my question. How do you feel about the evolving stagnation of the Estonian political environment and system, such as the stalling of state reform, rather than the administrative reform, is not becoming an obstacle to the development of the Estonian business environment? Don't you feel like you're running into a rubber wall in your actions and relationships with the political system?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U43	Sometimes it is, yeah. I don't know how much more of a hindrance this is gonna be. As your experienced statesman, you are likely to perceive the sign of danger, you will recognise the potential risk scenario. Indeed, this threat exists. I do not see these obstacles yet today, I think that the environment in Estonia is quite well organised for business and business relations with the country. Estonia is still relatively well placed in the start-up and ease of business ranking. I don't see a big problem yet from the perspective of the entrepreneur, but who knows where the threat is.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U44	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Thank you very much for the work you are encouraging the Estonian business environment! Has there been any investment in agriculture with your help? We have heard recently that foreign money is in our agricultural companies or, for example, in the food industry.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U46	Yes, in the last year we made an investment in Vital Fields, a company that offers farmers a wise weather forecasting service on the basis of which a farmer can essentially decide by field how to fertilise or moisten one or the other field. It's a very high-potential company.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U47	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good performer! You said that there could be three areas in Estonia that should be given more attention. You spoke later about the fact that we have a lot of potential in the green economy. I did not realise that the green economy was one of those three areas. If he's not one of them, why can't he be one of them? I also find that there is really great potential for job creation and, for example, for developing technology that can be sold outside Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U49	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for the floor to be represented by my colleague, Mr Kallas, on behalf of the Group of the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U50	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Very sympathetic in your presentation and also in your answers, there has been a desire for cooperation. I think that's the only thing right. Perhaps the reason why the proposals of the Development Fund did not always sound very well in the past has been precisely the wrong tone: we are somewhere high and are teaching from the tower above how to do below. Cooperation is, in my opinion, a very right and sympathetic principle. Education, however, is an important component. What is your cooperation with higher education institutions and general education schools? How do you envisage the cooperation of the Development Fund with these institutions? Should there not be an increase in the number of members of the Board of the Development Fund or an increase in the number of representatives of general education schools in place of someone in order to have a better representation of the education component there?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U51	Thank you. That's a very good question. The Board of the Development Fund is known to have two appointed members of the Council of Rectors. These are the rector of Tallinn University of Technology and the University of Tartu, who has been on our council all along and is there now. I think there is room for improvement in our cooperation with both universities. We have planned some initiatives with the University of Tartu in our start-up programme. We are in close contact with Erik Puura from the University of Tartu. We also have links with Tallinn University of Technology. I think we have an understanding with higher education institutions and a knowledge of what's being done somewhere. As regards general education schools and the strategy for entrepreneurship education in general, our contribution here has not been too great. We have discussed this subject a few times with the people of the Ministry of Education and Research. I hope that we can discuss this further and take further steps to create a proper strategy for entrepreneurship education. I think that, first of all, there should be an entrepreneurship education in an institution of higher education, for which concrete steps are already being taken. Next, we should look at how to improve entrepreneurship education in high school or upper secondary school, where there are few prepared entrepreneurship teachers, the teaching materials could be better, etc. Entrepreneurship education should reach primary school and kindergarten. We have some ideas on how to do this, maybe we'll take one action in the spring of summer. However, the inclusion of a new member in the Council will not increase its capacity as a member of the Council. There has been a very high turnover in the Council, a few weeks ago, a third chairman was elected during the year I have been chairman of the board. Hopefully, Ville Yehe, who has now taken up work, will remain in office for a long time. The Council's work has been a little shredded because of the fluidity.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U52	Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U53	Thank you, President of the sitting. Thank you, waitress, for this wonderful thought book. You have dealt with a very broad spectrum here, starting with the role of teacher and ending with government administration. But one task or objective of the Development Fund is certainly to explore and work through different areas of the economy so that a recipe can be given for how to proceed. Which areas did you address most, and should the Development Fund not focus more on research in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U54	I think we're focusing on research quite a bit. The areas I was talking about are smart specialisation, business and green economy and energy. The most research is currently being carried out in the fields of the green economy and energy, and there are indeed dozens of such studies and surveys. The next is the business sector. We have been doing global business monitoring for the second year. This year, when we have two years of business data in Estonia, comparable to those of countries where they have been collected for more than ten years, more specifically 15 years, we can carry out an additional analysis on the basis of which we can claim that there is a bottleneck in the Estonian business environment, whether there is a shortage of capital, unfavourable attitudes in society, which makes people afraid to fail, or something third or fourth. If, at the end of January or February, the next Estonian report on global enterprise monitoring is published, we will have this analysis prepared, with which we will be able to direct all our activities more closely. If we have little resources, we need to use them more carefully and more precisely, we need to direct them to where eliminating the neck of the bottle would produce the best result.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U55	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U56	Thank you. Dear waitress, first of all, thank you very much for an interesting presentation. You've been head of the Development Fund for a year now. Everyone who takes up a new job has certain expectations and hopes. Have you had to make any adjustments to your expectations? My question is very simple: how do you feel about this job?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U57	Thank you. I feel really good. I've had a very busy year, and I've probably learned more than I have in the last ten years. Corrections I've had to do in a lot of things. One of the most important corrective measures is that I, as a private entrepreneur, thought that if something had been agreed with important top executives, it would be implemented immediately. Things are different in the country, as I understand it. To some extent, it's a pity. We're a small country and we could do things more efficiently. Perhaps the Development Fund could also contribute a little here, point out some places where it could be done faster and easier. But in general, I am very pleased and thank you for your confidence that I can do this job.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U58	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U59	Thank you. Good waitress! It is no secret that, when the development fund was created here many years ago, long and painfully, Finland's Sitra was an example. How much do you think the Development Fund is now like Finland's Sitra? Isn't the reason that the Development Fund isn't like that, isn't it, isn't it, that you just have too little money?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U60	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will take hold of the previous speech and start by thinking about what this development fund is. The Development Fund is the Riigikogu think tank. A lot of good work is done there, but this work will not live unless the Riigikogu uses it. When it comes to talking to people in the private sector, it is very often surprising that the state has created an excellent instrument for itself in the form of such a think tank, but on the other hand it constantly pulls down the instrument and reduces its importance. This issue is certainly very important; we should think about how we can make better use of the Development Fund in our work. I would specifically like to emphasise the subject that was discussed here today, which is a clever specialization, i.e. research, which explains what our strengths are. There is no point in dealing with our weaknesses, but in strengthening the strong sides of our business and gaining an important advantage in competitiveness there. Once again, we must look to the Riigikogu. The analysis of the Development Fund on smart specialisation highlights the bottlenecks that need to be overcome in order to further strengthen our strengths. Again, overcoming many of these bottlenecks is in the hands of the Riigikogu. As regards the fund of funds, which was also mentioned, the Reform Party will certainly support the establishment of this fund of funds, which is the very right direction. However, we do not support the duplication of competence and the creation of a new development fund, which, once again, requires expenditure and training of people, alongside the structure of the existing development fund. It would make sense to make use of the expertise already available in the Development Fund when setting up a fund of funds. It also turned out that the Development Fund could carry out more research. After all, many of these studies have been carried out over the years. Once again, it must be said that these studies will be of little use if they are not used. These studies are all there now. It is our task as members of the Riigikogu to take out these studies and use them in the best possible way in our work. I call on the members of the Riigikogu to take a positive view of the development fund and, above all, to look to the future, as suggested by this book. We should certainly look at ourselves to find out how to make better use of the Development Fund as a think tank in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U61	Urmas Glass, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U62	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Allow me, too, to thank the Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund Tõnis Arro once again for his presentation. He had a lot of questions, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U63	Thank you. That's the correct explanation. I just didn't say that in that detail. By the end, the green economy is indeed one of them. If you remember, the third area of specialisation on one slide was the enhancement of resources, which basically means smarter use of resources. This concerns, for example, our mineral resources. Burning the oil shale in the furnace is a relatively silly use of resources, isn't it? It would be a matter of making a chemical product out of him. Oil shale chemistry is certainly one of the likely direct beneficiaries of the smart specialisation program. It's the same as wood. It's nice to have houses made of wood, but even if this house was smart enough, it would use an IT solution and regulate the heat and humidity itself, it would be an even better use of resources. This kind of thing fits very well with the term 'green economy', which is a very broad term, as well as with one area of smart specialisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U64	Rein Aidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You spoke in your presentation and this thought book we read about Tallinn's potential, such as the Seaplane Harbour, also in terms of transfer. But let's talk about other regions. The state, together with European resources, will also contribute to the development of Ida-Viru County. Take, for example, the Development of Industrial Areas of the Foundation Ida-Virumaa with all possible private developments on Sillamäe or on the basis of Narva Gate Kreenholm, etc. Does the Development Fund have any ideas regarding the development of Ida-Virumaa? What advice can be given there?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U66	Thank you. We don't have these ideas directly, but basically we could. I mentioned Chile here. There is also a development fund in Chile that has been engaged, inter alia, in regional development. While only the Norwegian salmon was known in the world a few years ago, the Southern Chilean development plan led by the Chilean Development Fund found that where the economy was relatively lagging behind some time ago there were plenty of good opportunities for salmon farming, not worse than in Norway. The Chilean salmon is now an equal competitor to the Norwegian salmon. Of course, the resources of the state had to be directed there, etc. When discussing good friends and partners, we have occasionally mentioned that perhaps the development fund could play such a role in the future that it is not just a player in the development strategy of some regions, but a leader in doing so. As I said, I would be happy to engage in dialogue. Let's discuss what else we can do, what new things we can do. Such a subject is not excluded at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U67	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You did have a very interesting presentation. It's sad I can only ask you one question. That's why I choose a particular thing. In your presentation, you mentioned the improvement in relations with EAS. Would you like to comment on that a little bit more closely? As we know, EAS is a 'positive trap' for small businesses for further great suffering. I know a lot of small companies who have remained struggling with the fact that the EAS processes very long the cost of the project, which it itself has previously approved. However, if a small enterprise that does not have a turnover buffer receives its money in two years' time, it often does not exist anymore. Do you see any opportunities for cooperation and regulation? How do you comment on your message that cooperation has improved?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U69	The main message is that when we tried to discuss with EAS a year ago that maybe this 'Start-up Estonia' program could come to us, we didn't get a very good deal. Right now, we've pretty much agreed that this is what's gonna happen. There have also been examples that EAS has tried to recover export refunds from some of the most successful start-up companies because the forecast was wrong. But every person who knows anything about start-ups says the prognosis can't be right. If that's right, it's some kind of miracle, the prognosis is always wrong. In some ways, these very innovative technology-start-ups are not compatible with the rules that exist in EAS. I do not know whether the existence of so many rules is inevitable, or whether it is due to the super-aspiration of Estonians, but such start-up-type companies are very ill suited to this machinery. It seems to me that the breakthrough is that EAS has understood it. They say we can do it, they'll do something else. As for what a company or another organisation could do better, we will be happy to answer when asked and help if we know how to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U70	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U71	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! There was some talk about EAS here. I agree that enterprising people are an important asset, but this issue needs to be addressed. If the start-up company is unable to raise any kind of venture capital, its only supporter is the municipality in essence, in addition to the EAS. For example, a start-up aid package has been put together in Tallinn, and some municipalities are still making such small pimps. I know a lot of people are planning on doing them. How do you feel about such small municipal start-up aid in the Development Fund? Does it really work?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U72	I have to say, I don't really know that. I would be happy to look into this subject. I myself think that if the company gets on its feet thanks to this start-up aid, it's fine. But in some ways, I'm quite critical of start-up aid. We'll take the EAS startup. The aid paid to the start-up company cannot do what really needs to be done with this money. The start-up company usually needs to rent itself a small office, buy a computer and also a few months' salary, but this support must not be used. I don't understand why it has to be that way. Instead of providing this support, one could grant a loan and say that if the company is doing well, it will pay back, and if it goes badly, it will not pay, but it can do what it wants with this money to develop its business. It would be sensible, and such a thing would really be helpful. I don't know what to say about municipal packages. Maybe they're more flexible. If they do not use Structural Funds money, they could look at what is really needed to support the start-up company.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U73	Yes, that is, of course, the most striking difference. Finland's Sitra is completely sovereign and independent. If we wanted to do something like Sitra, we might wonder if there was some kind of asset that could be transferred to the Development Fund, just as the shares of Telekom were originally given. It would create such a position of independence. Another striking difference between Sitra and the Estonian Development Fund is that although the Sitra Council is quite similar in form to our council, there are rectors and politicians, it acts like a sovereign, independent decision-making body, who comes together and thinks about what is wrong in the Finnish economy, and takes the decision that this should now be done. Thanks to their sovereign position, this decision can also be implemented quickly. But the Board of the Estonian Development Fund may decide, for example, that we will do the fund of funds as the Council decided at the beginning of the year, but then we have to convince someone that it was a good and right decision. It doesn't always work.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U74	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U75	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, thank you for your meaningful presentation. One of your slides had one tube pointed eastwards, Russia, Ukraine and Belarus. Do businessmen, unlike politicians, see a growing market on this side, or what is this tube?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U76	This tube was the end of the funnel, which should draw successful start-ups to Estonia. Our aim is to repeat the Modesat case: Belarusian and Estonian engineers, venture capital money and American business leaders. There are also business leaders to take a closer look at, and our great north neighbour has launched successful business-trained engineers who come from Nokia every day. Some of them also come from another company. If we could bring the Belarusian start-ups here and give them a successful Estonian business manager, then there is a good chance that it will become an Estonian company. I think that what happens is worth the systematic work.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U77	Juku-Kalle Raid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U78	Thanks! Good Tõnis! I think it's a very nice collection of poetry, and I'm sure it's very useful. We tend to talk about how easy it is for us to start a business, and this is generally the case. You take the ID card, you go somewhere in the corner, and in about half an hour, the company will be ready. But how easy is it for a small business to survive? I am thinking of the tax burden, especially all kinds of indirect taxes. No, it's not! What points do you see here that could be radically different in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U79	Thank you. That's a very good question. The topic of taxes is the sacred cow of Estonia; it must not be touched. I could give many examples of what could be done with taxes in order to help small businesses survive and grow. For example, as the company grows, its costs increase faster than its revenues. But taxes have to be paid every month. A growing company could, for example, be allowed to have an annual VAT timeout. If he gets better, he'll pay the unpaid VAT in the meantime. It would be a very powerful lever for companies that employ ten employees and employ a business manager to cope with themselves. What else could we do? VAT on catering establishments could be reduced by half, as is the case in Finland or elsewhere. All kinds of things you could do. We would be happy to analyse these options, but we do not want to do something on our own that we would be asked to come to our senses, because it will not be done anyway. The Social Tax Warehouse is the same story.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U80	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U81	Thank you. One of the things you've been working on this year is a clever specialization analysis. I think it's a very interesting and sensible thing to do here. But you have made a number of suggestions in this analysis that could be made. Are and how are they reflected in the planned next financial perspective euro? Some things, in my opinion, could be done by using common European money. Have you been actively involved in this matter, and what is your assessment of whether we will do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U82	Thank you. That's a good question. I think that things are going well at this point. The smart specialisation strategy that we have made is not left dust on the shelf, but is actively pursued and will be the basis for planning measures for the next period. Our people are active in this work. As I understand it, it is now recognised that the Development Fund will play its part in coordinating the implementation of this smart specialisation strategy. There is something like the steering committee or the secretariat, where the decision-making powers remain with the ministries, but maintaining such a cooperation body is a matter of the Development Fund. I think it's positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U83	Good waitress, thank you and the Development Fund for this presentation and review. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Aivar Riisalu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U84	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard today for almost an hour and a half that things are generally in order in Estonia, the state budget is balanced and the public finances are also in order. The Development Fund is one of the most progressive development engines in Estonia. It should be welcomed to note that the Development Fund was founded by Edgar Savisaar, Minister of Economic Affairs of the Republic of Estonia, when he was in the coalition with the Reform Party and realised that the establishment of such an institution was absolutely necessary for the development of the Estonian state. It is a pity that during all these years the Development Fund has not been able to live in fertile conditions such as those created by the Coalition of the Centre Party and the Reform Party. From today's presentation by the Head of the Development Fund, there were some clear bottlenecks that bothered him and hindered the development of the company he led. In particular, it is a competition between EAS and KredEx, who are also trying to be the drivers of the development of society. They should be the money providers, the development engine should still be the development fund, which is already coming from his name. I listened carefully to what was said here today, and I found a book like this. I put yellow tags in those places I like. I am of the opinion that it is probably also important for the Centre Party, for whom I am speaking here, that they be reminded once a year that the letters a, b, c, d, e, f are in the alphabet, etc. As the presentation of the Head of the Development Fund revealed a proposal or a request to further develop this book, I will open this wise book and try to build on the points marked with these yellow tags. For example, Tõnis Arro here says: 'In the poor cold north, we have no better recipe for success than to start our own businesses. The success of our business depends on how much we can spend to secure our well-being and our future. " Golden words! Under the wise leadership of the Reform Party and Isamaa, it is really easy to start a business. There are almost 200,000 of them already in the register, and they can be established, as is said, ne othodja ot kassõ, if you use the main language of our former country, i.e. without leaving the cash register. This means, however, that the share of VAT fraud in the GDP of the Republic of Estonia is already close to 250 million euros, as I have understood from the tax administration. That money should be collected. Tõnis Arro's position is quite correct, but the question is that the establishment is only a micro-millimetre of what should be left of the company. But unfortunately, as we say about getting it forward, these founders often lack good ideas, no capital, no workforce. All these problems have, of course, been highlighted in this abductor, until the reason why the Estonian state does not deal adequately with economic governance. In some ways, I agree that the Estonian state should contribute a little more to economic governance, because in the country, I expect, everyone is smart and nice leaders. In this sense, I am not criticising, I am not even trying to be ironic, but I want to say from the point of view of practical business that setting up alone does not help life. The following quote: 'The long-term competitiveness of Estonia does not depend to a significant extent on whether the Tallinn road is two, four or six lines or whether the undistributed profits of companies are taxed at zero, five or ten per cent. What is important, though, is that our children should be raised by dedicated, talented people. " I totally agree with that. It's the letter "b" of the alphabet. But now let's come to how many of us here as enthusiastic partisans have tried to raise teachers' salaries in recent years. In practice, we have in no way succeeded in making teachers feel dignified. The policy continues that if we take the letter "b" from the alphabet of the Development Fund, we will understand that what they recommend to us is not foreseen in the near future. 'Cause I'm sorry, unfortunately, teachers in the middle class of their current salary level, which the Centre Party should create, there's no way to get away with it. We therefore have no reason to believe that the quality of our school will improve significantly. The quality of the upper secondary school will certainly improve. However, the difference is that those who are needed in the real economy as simple hardworking people cannot get there because they are unable to break through the competition that emerges in order to get into upper secondary school. But basic school is still the same. Vocational education does not want to be the first choice at least in the first phase of the lives of very many young men, because they prefer to be at home and perhaps drink a little more. This is unfortunately a problem in Estonia. The following quote: 'The Estonian economy is like a bus that has been hooked into someone's tail, and it drives in an unknown direction by making unexpected turns. In such a situation, how should the government behave as either a self-conscious steering wheel or a modest traveler? " If the Centre Party were in power, he would ask the Development Fund he created to say, in the case of such thinking, as an institution created by the government, how the government should behave. But now we can read this relatively general quote. Some bold suggestions came out of Mr Arro's speech. The Centre Party could support with two hands that the time for tax reform is ripe. In this book, some say that you all have the opportunity to read it on your own, that it is no longer a matter of corporate tax, that the time has passed and that very many other times have passed. It is clear that this book, for the first time, states that there is a need to review the tax system. However, in some ways the tax system should boost the economy and be more flexible to enable it to be a locomotive. Very rightly, Mr Arro said that the start-up company can quite often be closed by the tax authorities for about four months because the tax administration does not have a dialogue with the company. I have very little time, but I will say so much more that this book will also mention who will still be working for us in the future. Even the issue of migrant labour is dared to be touched upon in this book! It must be said that the Development Fund should be able to regain its real function, which was a prerequisite for its creation, which is to become the one the government listens to. There are many things in this Bible that need to be developed further. I tried to talk about them now in this short space of time, but unfortunately, we're out of time. The Centre Party supports more dialogue in the country that will lead to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U85	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Jaan Õunapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I must start by saying that this item has not been dealt with correctly. Last week, the members of the Economic Commission were briefed on the progress, but this was done in oral presentations. Yesterday, I wanted to get some written material that I didn't get. The question arises as to why they were in a hurry. Why couldn't it have come to this hall in a week, two or three? It is also known that no representative of the opposition is part of the Foundation's board. It seems that the members of the coalition have a greater right to more precise and better information about the activities of the Development Fund. The question arises as to whether something is wrong and whether something was not planned. I remember last year when I was talking on the remote, I brought up a topic that was making waves in the press back then. The fact that the Fund and its 15 employees used 1030 square metres of floor space. I understand, of course, that this was a purely formal issue, not a substantive one. Tõnis Arro said today that the situation has improved considerably in a year and that savings have been made, which makes a good deal of sense. The topic I also asked Tõnis about is the growth programme "Entrepreneur Estonia" planned for this year. The cost of this pilot project is written here on this paper, which was presented to us on 13 August 2012. This cost is EUR 1,21 million. With this money, up to a thousand people were provided for training in upper secondary schools and vocational schools, publishing an entrepreneurial textbook, setting up a business centre in one of the Estonian public-law universities, etc. However, I must say that this work has not been done, which I sincerely regret. In this respect, I would not point my finger at the heads of the Development Fund, but rather at the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, who has failed to provide financial support for the necessary projects in their area of administration. The business environment in Estonia is already weak, people are not very enterprising. In Estonia, only 40% of the working-age population wants to be their own employer, compared with 45% in the European Union, and 61% in the USA. Only 5.6% of the working age population is entrepreneurs; the European average is 9%. The question arises, then, which is more important to the Minister for Economic Affairs than to create people's interest in starting a business. In earlier reports of the Development Fund, the sentence remains that most organisations die not because they do the wrong things, but because they do the right things too long. A parallel with the Estonian state can be drawn. We are trying stubbornly to stick to the principles of taxation, education and regional policy that fit Estonia in the first decade after regaining independence, without going into the debate that time has gone on and what worked in the old days is no longer appropriate. Much is also said that economic development must ensure growth in general well-being, i.e. employment, sufficient purchasing power for the population, good education and the development of health care, economic development must also help to halt emigration. You can agree with that, of course, one of you will help. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U87	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U88	The state's contribution to people, their education and health must be seen as an investment that contributes to economic growth. It is also beneficial for every entrepreneur to be able to operate in a country with dignified, good skills and high purchasing power. Our low wages are often caused by low productivity per capita. It is true that on average productivity in Estonia is several times lower than in Finland, for example. But if our guy goes across the bay from here, his productivity's gonna suddenly increase, and that's gonna happen several times. So what's the reason? Is there a reason only for employees or are there reasons elsewhere, for example in management decisions? Currently, 80% of Estonian exporting companies are held by foreign investors. They decide what is being produced in this country, whether it is products with high added value, with higher wages and more money remaining in the country of production, or whether it is focusing more on cheap labour and more energy intensive production. Unfortunately, production of machinery and equipment with low added value, production of wood, furniture, sewing, textiles and food industries are the main part of Estonian exports. Finally. The Social Democrats have given a bill to the Riigikogu, which also obliges the local government to deal with the creation of an entrepreneurial environment. This has not yet been addressed in this Chamber at first reading. I hope that the members of the coalition will also support our draft, and that what is being spoken about at local level will be legalised here. When the Development Fund was created, the hopes were greater than this fund is currently capable of fulfilling. Opinions are from the wall to the wall. I have heard people say that the fund has done well, and today, for example, there has been talk here about smart specialisation, but there are people who doubt the need for this fund. We'll let the new leadership and the chairman of the council do their work. I hope that the Fund's contribution to the development of the Estonian economy will be more noticeable in the coming years. This gunpowder issue, which Tõnis Arro pointed out nicely, maybe the monetary field will also receive more attention from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U89	Let's go to the next point. First reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Social Democratic Party begins. I would remind you that a member of the Riigikogu may ask both rapporteurs an oral question. Let's start the first reading. For the presentation, please to the speaker Evgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the draft decision submitted by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which aims to task the government with organising the translation into Russian of half a century of the most important Estonian law. We have done a great deal of work in drafting the draft by sending it to a number of authorities and organisations to coordinate this initial option. I would like to thank those who sent us feedback and thereby contributed to improving the draft. Thank you to the Estonian Lawyer Association, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Justice, the Centre for Political Studies in Praxis, the Institute of Baltic Studies and the Estonian Human Rights Centre! All feedback received, together with the comments of the initiators, can be found in the coordination table at the end of the draft explanatory memorandum. That's where you can look at it. Now I'm going to the bill. The list of laws that we see translated can be consulted in the draft text. In general, these laws concern the status of foreigners (e.g. the Aliens Act and the Citizenship Act), the protection of fundamental rights (e.g. the Chancellor of Justice Act, the State Legal Aid Act, the Bar Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Administrative Procedure) and the organisation of everyday life (e.g. the Employment Contracts Act, the Housing Association Act, the Law of non-profit associations and the Family Act). Why is that necessary? As we know, in 2011 the Riigikogu instructed the government to translate all 400 Estonian laws into English so that the state of Estonia could be understood by the outside world. The Social Democrats support the effort to make Estonia more open and understandable internationally, but at the same time we believe that our country must also be understandable to all Estonian residents. According to the 2011 census, 383000 people live permanently in Estonia, whose native language is Russian, 8,000 people whose native language is Ukrainian, and 1,600 people whose native language is Belarusian. According to the 2011 integration monitoring, only a third of the people whose native language is another foreign language can, according to their assessment, handle the active use of the Estonian language, with nearly 15% of the people who speak the free Estonian language among them. Similar results were obtained on the basis of objective criteria. Testimony that the language was mastered at level C1, only 18% of those interviewed. It is worrying that nearly a sixth of people whose native language is another language do not speak Estonian at all. There are also major regional differences in language skills. For example, in the towns of Ida-Virumaa, 65% of those interviewed do not speak Estonian at all. Of course, the aim should ultimately be that all people living permanently in Estonia can read Estonian laws in Estonian, but unfortunately this is not the case at the moment. Many Estonian residents are unable to understand the content of Estonian legislation due to the lack of language skills, which is why they are less well informed about the organisation of the Estonian state and their rights to receive various services and the protection of the state. Lack of legal awareness directly affects trust in national institutions. I believe that the priority for Estonian society is precisely that the people living here should understand in the same way how this country and society work and trust the institutions created to protect their rights. I am not naming the Riigikogu here, but the police, the courts, the tax administration and others could enjoy such trust. This draft is also in line with the objectives of the current integration programme, which seeks to 'improve the availability of information as a public service for people speaking different mother tongues. " I would like to remind you that the Estonian state has committed itself to integrating people who do not yet speak enough Estonian into Estonian society. The initiators of the draft act agree with the opinion of the Prax Centre for Political Studies, the Ministry of Justice and the Estonian Lawyers' Association that translating legislation into Russian does not in itself greatly improve legal awareness. The reason is very simple: very few work with the original texts of the laws, both in Estonian and in all other languages. However, Praxis and I agree that translating legislation into Russian is only one part of the collection of activities designed to reduce the information barrier, which must be accompanied by wider provision of national information in Russian and information about the rights and opportunities of individuals. But that is precisely what officials, lawyers, lawyers, NGOs and companies from various institutions are doing. The draft would significantly help these parties to serve their citizens on a daily basis and increase their capacity to provide public services. It has been customary in this hall to ask why these people have not learned the Estonian language. This requires a longer argument. Probably some of these people have really been lazy, but it's obviously not that simple. For example, visit Narva, where 97% of the population are Russian-speaking. I am surprised that there are so many people who speak Estonian very well, surprisingly, that they have managed to do so. It is clear that the state should come here to help create a language environment where it is possible to learn Estonian. But in Estonia as a whole, less than 3000 people can participate in Estonian language courses funded by the state each year. I would remind you that only about 50,000 of more than 380,000 people speak Estonian on a good level, whose native language is not Estonian. You can calculate how many years it takes before the rest of the people can learn the Estonian language to the extent necessary. Now I will respond to some of the objections that have been raised and which will certainly be raised during today's debate. To prevent them, I will answer a few questions in advance. Firstly, does this draft change the status of Estonian and Russian languages in Estonia in any way? Some people have opposed the bill, saying that Estonian is a national language, but the bill gives Russian a higher status than it is now. Indeed, when a country translates laws into foreign languages, it can be viewed in two ways. It can be said that this is a new status for this foreign language, but it can also be said that Estonian is still the only official language, but for pragmatic reasons, the state offers translations into other languages both for its people and for the rest of the world. Since the law will continue to be legal in Estonia only in Estonian and the official language is still Estonian, I think it is a purely pragmatic issue, we want to be understandable to our people and therefore we also offer translations, as long as the situation in integration policy is what it is now. The same logic was followed by the Riigikogu when it decided to translate our laws into English. Certainly no member of the Riigikogu at the time thought that by this decision we turned English into a semi-official language in Estonia. The two options, whether it is a status issue or a pragmatic issue, can be chosen on the basis of taste, but the gross logic errors of several people who believe that the translation of laws into English is a pragmatic issue, but the translation of laws into Russian is certainly not acceptable. It's exactly the same thing. The second possible objection is technical. Questions have been raised as to how the arrangements for making new translations would look if this bill were to come into force as a law. Actually, there's nothing new here. At the request of the Ministry of Justice, the translator will translate the text of Estonian law into Russian, as he will translate it into English, and it will be placed in the State's Official Journal. In part, this system is already operating. If you unblock the Public Procurement Act on the website of the National Gazette, you will see that the link 'Translations' is at the top of the page, under which the three versions of the Russian version of the Public Procurement Act, including the current text of the Act, are included. Has the status of Estonian language changed in any way because there is a translation of the Public Procurement Act in the Official Journal? I'm saying it's not. Another objection that has been raised is that it does not understand why translating laws into Russian should be the responsibility of the state. They think they'll let someone else do it when they need it. I would remind you that until 2009, the state translated a certain number of legislation into Russian, initially through the State Gazette, later through the Office of the Minister of Population. This service was terminated in 2009. At the same time, there is a state-owned company, Estlex OÜ, which has offered Russian translations of the laws as a business service. In any case, this is a very grateful job, but the problem is that in terms of law translations, Estlex is simply a translation agency, their translation lacks a certain official seal. I'll explain what the problem is. The problem is that in Estonia and other countries there are many different versions of laws in Russian, most of which have been made by God knows who and God knows what quality. For example, I know that in Narva (I have a monthly reception of voters there) at least one person has believed, after reading such a translation, that in Estonia someone can be sued only through a lawyer or a lawyer. You might think who might have been interested in distributing such a translation. Another thing that has been mentioned, for example, by the legal guardians of Ida-Virumaa, is the procedural difficulties caused by translation errors. If, for example, a hearing in Narva takes place in Russian, but official acts, decisions and regulations are, of course, written in Estonian, then in the meantime an interesting process will take place where prosecutors, judges and lawyers will translate the Estonian law into Russian to discuss it at the hearing, then all this talk will be translated back into Estonian in order to draw up a decision or order. The result is how ever, but certainly this practice is not normal. The only way to avoid this difference in translation versions is to do what the country has done for English translations. Are you an official, entrepreneur or simply a citizen, you can go to the website of the National Gazette, where there is a proper translation of the sworn translator for which the state is responsible. Of course, the Estonian-language law is still in force, but the quality of the translation is guaranteed. People whose native language is Estonian do not read Estonian laws on suspicious websites or on paper from neighbouring women, but go to the website of the State Gazette. The crucial question is certainly how much it will cost to implement this draft decision. It is difficult to give a definite answer to this, but I have calculated it more or less, based on the comparison of the cost to the country of translating laws into English. In two years, 2011-2012, 200 laws were translated into English at the request of the ministries in Estonia, costing a total of 160000 euros. There are 52 laws in our draft decision. Of course, it is not possible to divide it by four, but it should certainly not be more than EUR 50,000 to translate fifty laws. In addition, it would take a few thousand euros a year to keep these texts up to date in the State's Official Journal. At the same time, it should be noted that in essence all the laws mentioned in the draft have already been translated into Russian by Estlex. Estlex is a subsidiary of the state company AS Datavara. So these translated laws should be bought out, reviewed and published in the State's Official Journal. Indeed, the revenue of the State-owned company would therefore be reduced to some extent. I would like to point out that, as the majority of the translations of the laws are purchased from Estlex by state and local authorities who need to serve citizens and residents in languages different from the Estonian language, making translations available free of charge would not only improve the quality of services, but also reduce the costs of these institutions, which would indirectly compensate for the costs of the draft. In summary, the translations of laws into Russian are needed at the current stage of integration to improve the rights awareness of residents, as the people whose native language is Russian do not, unfortunately, speak enough Estonian. The interest in translations of these laws is very high, for example, in April 2013 translations of legislation into Russian from Estlex were asked a total of 1206 times, and the translation of the Citizenship Act alone was asked 130 times this month. We all want the legal awareness of the Estonian people to be better and all permanent residents to feel part of our society. It also requires a high level of trust in the state's institutions, but this is only possible if a person knows how the state and society are built up. This is certainly not about giving Russian special status, but about the completely pragmatic decision that is needed at this stage of the development of our society. It will not cost the country much, but it will produce direct and indirect positive results, which will certainly be significantly higher than these direct costs. I therefore call on you: to make ourselves understood by more than 380,000 Estonians, it is worth it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U91	Thank you very much, Mr Ossinovski. Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U92	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! Certainly this is no longer about inventing a bicycle in 2013. Perhaps you have some insight into how our immediate neighbours or other countries have solved this problem? Is it possible for us to take a schnitt from someone?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U93	Thank you. The Ministry of Justice claims that Latvia and Lithuania are worse off than Estonia. But when we look elsewhere, we see that Finland, for example, offers texts of the laws of our National Gazette in seven languages. Of course, all laws are available in Finnish and Swedish; a larger number of other laws are available in English, but some texts, such as the Constitution, have also been translated into French, Spanish, Russian and perhaps German. In many countries, such as Britain, local authorities do this type of thing; they offer translations of law texts into a wide range of languages to better serve their citizens. This has still been a pragmatic issue in all countries in order to deal well with people from different backgrounds. I think the Finnish state has certainly done better here than we have.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U94	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U95	In the Commission, too, such an idea came out of the mouth of one of the members. First of all, I want to say that it is clear that this is not about amending the law. This draft is a draft decision of the Riigikogu proposing to the Government of the Republic to translate these laws into Russian and to keep them updated in the Official Journal of the State. This essentially precludes this argument when it comes to changing the status of Estonian or Russian or any other language. This was exactly the same in the case of English, although the format was a little different at the time. The Riigikogu confirmed 'The Developments of Legal Policy until 2018', so it was the name of the document where, as one point, all laws had to be translated into English by 2014. Neither of these documents is a law, but they express the legislator's desire for the government to do something. This certainly does not change the status of the language in any way. As far as the various arguments are concerned, I can say more precisely what arguments were raised against this draft, they were also more or less open. The main objection was linked to the status of the language, which I do not think is appropriate. Secondly, it asked why the State should deal with this. If a person needs a translation, find it for himself! The objection to this, as I said, is basically that the state alone can ensure that the translation is of high quality, that it can put a 'quality seal' on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U96	Please, Mr Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U97	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm still waiting for the answer, whose failure is that some contingent doesn't just want to understand the national language. They have not learned it themselves, even though no one has forbade them. Secondly, you said that things were getting better, and the younger generation already understands the Estonian language. Don't you think this thing just doesn't make any sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U98	First of all, most of these laws already exist in Russian in some format. So it's relatively easy to do what we propose. Yes, it is not my opinion, it is, if I am not mistaken, the opinion of the President of the Bar Association that in the future it may not be worth offering this service, whether it is ten, twenty or not in several years' time, if all, or at least most of the people living here, whose mother tongue is not Estonian, can read the laws in Estonian. I really do, and I hope that time comes. But it certainly won't happen in a year, two or five. In my opinion, this is not a sufficient argument to exclude translation from this. As for why some people have done better and others have done less to acquire the Estonian language, unfortunately, it is not as easy as the citizen Raidi may have said. There are very different aspects that affect how well a person acquires a language, including the intellectual characteristics of a person and, of course, where he has lived his whole life, whether in Tartu, Pärnu, Tallinn or Narva.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U99	Please, Mr Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! How do you assess this situation in our policy that, in areas where money moves, our policy is very liberal, but when it comes to language and so on, our policy is very harsh, I would even say totalitarian? Is this some kind of schizophrenic situation, or is there some other background?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U101	Thank you for that question. I don't know how to answer that question. That should be asked by those who defend this position. However, I would like to draw attention to what you referred to indirectly. It has been said that one of the reasons why all Estonian laws are translated into English is that we want to be a more attractive business environment for the outside world and attract foreign investors. Our draft certainly improves the attractiveness of the Estonian business environment in those markets where the main business language is Russian. Let's look at the statistics. In 2012, Russia was Estonia's third largest export partner, 12% of Estonian exports went there, and in fifth place among foreign investors, 4.2% of the total volume of direct investments. The Russian language is certainly the most widely used foreign trade language in most of the former republics of the Soviet Union, and in Estonian trade these countries accounted for 33% of exports and 28% of total imports in 2012.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U102	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Ossinovski. I would like to ask Mr Herkel, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to serve as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U103	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft decision was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its meeting on 10 September. Jüri Heinla, Head of the Office of the Official Journal of the State of the Ministry of Justice, participated in the debate. The draft introduced Mr Ossinovski, who did so today in this Chamber. In the Commission, he may not have done so for so long and in depth, but we still had a very meaningful and long debate. I will not repeat the arguments of the author of the draft, but I will make a few arguments against it once again. Jüri Heinla explained that the service provided by Estlex on a commercial basis ensures that most Russian-language translations of Estonian law are available in a modern state, as well as in the availability of these translations. Only a few large law translations can be ordered due to high prices. Thus, Russian translations of the law are available. The price of translations is between a few dozen cents and 20 euros; these prices have been affordable for those who provide legal advice and for those who need this service. The publication of Russian translations in the Official Journal is not justified because the official language of Estonia is Estonian and, at the level of the state, another official language cannot be foreseen alongside the Estonian language. The same applies to English translations, but the reason for translating them into English is that there is less demand for these translations and that it is therefore not possible to make these translations on a commercial basis at an appropriate price. However, there is an interest in Russian translations. The same arguments were made that English translations are needed to introduce the Estonian legal order outside Estonia, especially to our European Union and other international partners. Now to the views of the Members of the Commission. Rait Maruste, chairman of the commission, noted that a large number of translations of the laws mentioned in the draft were available, but they were in different places. The question that should be resolved is that these translations could be aggregated somehow. Mart Nutt said that there was a need for information in Russian, but the debate is now going on more about the symbolic than the substance of the problem. I, too, pointed out that this was a matter of status rather than of access to information and translations, and Evgeni Ossinovski himself referred to this. Mr Nutt also pointed out that most Estonian laws are translated into English or French by the Council of Europe. As far as Russian translations are concerned, one of the largest translation offices is probably the embassy of the Russian Federation, but these translations are not available to us. I pointed out that the draft has a rather comprehensive explanatory memorandum and that the views of experts have also been asked, which is, of course, gratifying, but in some cases the experts' critical views have been interpreted as supporting the draft on one or the other point. There were other questions, but they largely repeated what Mr Ossinovski had already said. The chairman of the committee, Mr Rait Maruste, summarised this debate in this way. The practical problem may be that translations are located in different places. It is possible that something can be improved here, but it does not see the possibility that the state will translate Estonian laws into Russian through the State Gazette. This would be a clear step against the meaning of the Constitution and the language policy in force. Also, as mentioned above, it is not a question of the quality of Estlex's translations; rather, the question is whether bringing them under the State Gazette guarantees them a different status. The examples that Evgeni Ossinovski pointed out above that the prosecutor is translating in the same way and that the judge is translating in a different way have apparently been. This was also the case in the Commission, but it is unlikely to apply to Estlex's translations, which are more of a free version. The Commission decided to put a draft decision on the agenda for the plenary session today, 17 September and to propose that the draft be rejected (with 5 votes against and 3 abstentions). It was decided to appoint me as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U104	Thank you very much, Mr Herkel. Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U105	Dear waitress, A few days ago, the Riigikogu was handed over to the House Ownership and Apartment Association Act. Along with the explanatory memorandum there are 164 pages of close text, which are not enough to be understood and translated by a high-level Estonian or Russian language, because it requires accurate legal translation. The problems of housing associations are known to be particularly acute in the towns of Ida-Virumaa and among Russian-speaking residents in Tallinn. Members of the Riigikogu should work on this bill before it comes to the first, second and third readings here. How do you think this should happen in a democratic society and in the rule of law? How can this law be made clear to all those who are interested in it before it is adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U106	Thank you. I don't think there's a specific law on this list. If it's a bill, it's a process. How does this happen? I suppose there is a demand for such a translation of the law, and it will probably take place through Estlex. Most of the laws mentioned in the draft explanatory memorandum have already been translated by Estlex.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U107	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U108	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I have a question for you about the status of languages. You mentioned that it is not appropriate to translate the laws into Russian, as Estonian is the Estonian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U109	Thank you. Dear Yana Toom, you are confusing quite a few things now. Firstly, I did not express my personal position here, but I referred to the position expressed by Jüri Heinla in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Secondly, neither did Jüri Heinla claim that translating laws into Russian is evil. It pointed out, however, that these translations would be published in the Official Journal of the State, even though they were already available on a commercial basis. However, the availability of translations generally works. It also turns out from the expert review that the problem is not always so much the availability of translations as the general legal awareness, which must certainly be improved by further work in the Russian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U110	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U111	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Your presentation made quite an interesting statement that Estonian laws are not translated into Russian because there is a strong demand for these translations and they can be obtained on commercial grounds. As far as I know, the Estonian state broadcasts news to Russian-speaking people and Estonian taxpayers pay for it. Is there not much demand for these news, or could they also make commercial vessels work in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U112	Thank you. I think we're dealing with incomparable things here, though. In addition to the national language, informing residents in another language is one thing. The availability of laws, if it operates on a commercial basis, is a somewhat different issue. Yeah, you can see some analogy here. If we had a high-quality Russian-language commercial media, it might not be necessary to do these programmes in this form in public-sector media. However, this issue was not discussed in depth at the Commission meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U113	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U114	Thank you. Did the Commission also examine the position of the Bar Association on this draft? What do they think?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U115	Yes, the Commission has examined the points of view of the Bar Association. I cannot find them in this table; here are the views of the Association of Lawyers, but they refer to the positions of the two presidents of the Bar Association. They were, if I remember correctly, Toomas Vaher and Sten Luiga. I refer to Jüri Heinla's words. The two presidents of the Bar Association have indeed said that Russian translations are needed, due to the need to provide the client with paid legal assistance and to clarify the current right in the language of the client, but the state should not have to pay for this service in part.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U116	Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U117	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! When I was minister of the population years ago, our office financed the translation of the most important laws into Russian. When this office was lost, the government officially announced that the position of minister would disappear, but the activities would continue and the money would move under other ministries. Can you tell us where the tools for translating Estonian laws into Russian were directed? What happens to them if they don't do this job anymore?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U118	Thank you. I can't answer that question. There is probably no such separate line in the state budget, and it all takes place through Estlex.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U119	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U120	Thank you. Dear waitress, You referred the views of the members of the Commission on this draft. What impression did you have when it was thought that translating laws into English and publishing them in the Official Journal would in no way change the status of English or Estonian, but translating them into Russian and publishing them in the Official Journal of the State would necessarily do so, especially given that some laws have already been published in Russian in the Official Journal of the State? Where did this error of logic come from, and how could it come out of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U121	Thank you, Evgeny Ossinovski! In some ways, this question came up in our discussions. At least one Member of the Commission, I think it was Mart Nutt, pointed out that English translations should not be made at law level either. It came to the conclusion that, in fact, this does not happen at the level of the law, but is the result of the Riigikogu's decision on 'Developments in Justice Policy until 2018', which was once adopted here. We are still dealing with a draft decision. However, in the debate it came to the conclusion that the practical problem is not so big. Consequently, the motivation of this draft can be interpreted as an issue of increasing status. Rather, there may indeed be some such solutions here, if there were also references to other available sources on the different websites where some or other translations are available. I admit that the fact that these English translations are currently in the State's Official Journal can be seen in a certain logical contradiction, but whether and how to solve this problem in the future is probably not a question of this draft. When dealing with the draft, many members of the Commission had the impression that the draft was motivated by a desire to increase the status of the Russian language rather than by a practical problem that was essentially solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U122	Please, my colleague Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U123	Thank you. I have to do the Law of the State Gazette and see what it says about it: 'The translation of legislation published in the State Gazette and the publication of translations are organised by the Ministry of Justice in a volume determined by the Minister of Justice. Translations shall be made available in the Official Journal of the State. " From now on, there has been talk of the competence of a sworn translator. Yeah, I think basically this can be done on the basis of a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U124	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Honourable waitress! Mr Ossinovski mentioned that the purpose of the proposal is not to write into Estonian law the status of Russian, but simply to arrange for the government to translate Estonian law into Russian. That's why I'm asking you. Is there any way for the government to comply with this proposal without launching a bill that would require the translation of the laws into Russian and, perhaps, English or any other language, should this issue be raised? Is it possible to do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U125	Thank you very much. Please, as representative of the Group of Mrs Mart Nutt Isamaa and Mrs Res Publica.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U126	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! You mentioned Estlex several times and that, if this decision is taken, it will, to a certain extent, reduce the income of this company. You also said that 130 times were asked for a translation of the Citizenship Act within one month. Do you know how much it costs to translate the law into Russian? Do you have any insight into the company's revenues and how this business model works?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U127	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Herkel. I will open negotiations and call on the speaker's desk as a representative of the Central Party of Mikhail Stalnukhin. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U128	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start with a few lines. I will start with my colleague Raid and his question, whose failure is that a certain contingent does not speak Estonian, etc. In the vast majority, this is a failure of the Ministry of Education. The Estonian language has been given priority in the Republic of Estonia since 1989, when the first language law was passed. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Education, despite having infinite opportunities, has not been able to organise teaching the Estonian language in a school in other languages in such a way that the child can learn the language within 12 years. Instead, 60% of the lessons have been translated into Estonian. According to the Ministry of Education, if they cannot teach the children Estonian, let the children learn physics or biology in Estonian, maybe they can learn the language. It's about the same thing if a crime had been committed in some villages, but the police couldn't catch a criminal and would have put all the people in that village in their seats. Let them all be responsible for not being able to take care of it. The second line is for the Commission's co-rapporteur, actually the Commission. The Commission had the impression that this bill would show a desire to increase the status of Russian. Tell me, please, then I'll have another one! In New York, it was decided a few years ago that Russian was the 11th official local language, I might be wrong, so I said modestly, but it could also be the 19th official local language. This was done because there are enough people in this city whose native language is Russian. Is this being done out of the desire to increase the status of Russian in New York or simply to talk things out of the way to people living in a municipality and to ensure that they are law-abiding? The third line is for Mr Allik, who unfortunately is not in the Chamber, but I will say it. Mr Allik asked why the government did not support this proposal. Jaak, wherever you are! This government does not support this proposal precisely for the same reason that the government at the time did not support a similar proposal in 2001, and on several occasions. Today's debate in this Chamber will provide an answer to another question. It sounds like this: At what speed do ideas spread in an enclosed space? My calculations gave a result of about two millimeters a day. 12 years ago, on October 16, 2001, I presented exactly the same thoughts from this remote control. However, this draft was voted against. There were also moderates among those who voted against. Look, Mardi remembered it! Mrs. Lauristin and Mrs. Hänni sat in this hall in the last and last row, about 12 meters from here. That was 12 years ago, which makes the spread of ideas two millimeters a day. Now, let's go to this bill. Look, colleagues, I have taught people Estonian for many years. A lot of very interesting and funny things have happened during this time. Now I'm gonna tell you a story I told in this hall 12 years ago, and I haven't reminded you of it since. I refreshed my memory, reviewed my stenograms, and I remembered that story. An older man came into my group once, a genuine former officer who wants accuracy in everything. He asked how many words there are in Estonian and how many words we will learn. If there are, say, 10,000 words in Estonian, we will learn 100 words a week and it is clear which way we are going. I made it clear that the number of words in Estonian is the same as in Russian. Each language must cover all areas of life; the number of words in common languages is more or less the same. The size of a person's vocabulary depends only on the level of education, but even for an intelligent person, 35,000 50,000 words are actually too much. This man was amazed that there are just as many words in Estonian as there are in Russian. How this is possible, he wondered, little people, but this is the language! If you find this old gentleman's position strange and funny, respected coalition, think about what you look like yourself. After all, you think that if there are fewer people in ethnic minorities than there are Estonians, they do not need to know so well what the laws say. That's exactly the same opinion! The mechanism is exactly the same and just as funny. This raised the question of where the money went when the Russian translation of the laws was stopped at the beginning of this century. At that time, EEK 700000 had been allocated for translation. It was enough to issue the State Gazette in Russian. That money went to integration. But where are we now? The cost of creating this peace, normalising the situation in the courts, is EUR 40,000 to EUR 50000. Is that even a price? I hope you understand from my words that the Estonian Centre Party supports this draft decision and opposes its rejection at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U129	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U130	Thank you. I am not familiar with this issue enough to give you exhaustive answers. I know that Estlex is wholly owned by AS Andmevara, the sole shareholder of which is the Ministry of the Interior. The return on data assets last year was EUR 270000. I can't say how much exactly Estlex had income, because I didn't find their annual report in the business register. As far as the price of translations is concerned, these prices are very different. The translation of some laws, which are much asked, is relatively favorable, I have learned that it is not very expensive, but some of the law's translations have to be paid a little bit more. The main problem, as I referred to in my presentation, is, in my opinion, not whether it is cheap or expensive, but that in terms of translating laws, Estlex is just one translation agency, exactly the same as the rest. The main added value of putting English translations on the website of the National Gazette is that it guarantees the quality of the translation and can be trusted by everyone. The translations purchased from Estlex are generally good on the basis of empirical observation; I have not heard the opposite, but they do not have the official seal that the translations of the laws published in the Official Journal of the State have. In addition, a very large number of people do not know that Estlex can be translated into laws, and it certainly does not take place as easily as on the website of the State Gazette.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U131	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U132	Dear waitress, You have certainly been in contact with many public officials and national institutions when dealing with this issue. Have you developed any opinion as to why the current Government of the Republic is not interested in the fact that the laws of the Estonian state are accessible and unambiguously understood by all people working and living here, both citizens and others?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U133	Thank you. I think that this is, to a significant extent, the reason that no one has wanted to address this issue sufficiently. For example, in November last year, when the former Minister of Justice spoke about the implementation of developments in legal policy in the Riigikogu, he also said that there has been little interest in the Russian-language summaries of laws. When we look at Estlex's statistics, it is clear that the reality is exactly the opposite. In the Ministry of Justice, some people have given the tone of wishing that the government would oppose this initiative. Here, for example, is a paper signed by Hanno Pevkur, which states: "The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia lays down the value of the Estonian language as essential protection, so it is not justified to give any other language the status of an official language indirectly or in part. " Further, Hanno Pevkur has gone into pedagogy and said that by sharing Russian-language laws free of charge, more walls will be created between the Estonian and Russian-speaking communities and the motivation to learn Estonian will be reduced. I think the problem is, in fact, that it is not intended to familiarise itself with the substance of this matter. At least the argument that our laws should be translated into English applies to the same extent to translation into Russian. As a bonus, we also have nearly 400,000 people living, whose native language is not Estonian, but Russian.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U134	Please, my colleague Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U135	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Honourable waitress! You mentioned that there are quite a number of people in Estonia, especially in Ida-Viru County, who do not speak Estonian enough to read legislation in Estonian. That is certainly true. At the same time, Estonia has implemented a liberal education policy, for example, we can study in Russian at school. In a number of countries, education policies are much tougher, such as Greece, Turkey, Russia, or especially France. There are between six and seven million people in France, whose native language is either Arabic or Turkish, but there is no education in these languages. The situation is even more severe, and students are often not allowed to speak in their mother tongue in recess. What could be the solution in Estonian education policy, should we also use tougher educational policy measures or there are other ways to improve Estonian language skills?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U136	Thank you. I don't want to get into an educational debate, that's a whole other subject. I don't agree with you, but I don't agree with you very well. Also in the middle school part, where municipal authorities can formally decide on the language of instruction, most Estonian Russian-speaking schools work in bilingual form, including Estonian-language subjects. The level of teaching the Estonian language in primary schools is certainly problematic, as the average test result at the end of the ninth grade is 60 points in a circle. But the situation is getting better, and the level of language skills of young people is certainly higher than in other age groups. In fact, this situation is already improving over time. But how to ensure the very good language skills of comprehensive school and upper secondary school graduates is a different and much wider issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U137	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U138	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, As you prepare to defend this draft decision, I'm sure you were familiar with the similar legislative changes that were once proposed. Then the arguments against changing this situation sounded like memorized poems, a whole system that was opposed to this proposal. Have you been familiar with these arguments, and in what way this time the argument put forward by the Commission, for example, is different from the one by which the analogous amendments to the law were rejected years ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U139	It was one of your arguments right from the beginning. The second argument was that if the state translated these laws, it would somehow change the status of the Russian language. Ten years ago, there was an entire department in the State's Official Journal, which was involved in translating laws into Russian. In the meantime, since this department was shut down, has the status of Russian changed in any way? Do you not see a contradiction here when, in a country where Estonian has been a national language for 20 years, laws were still translated into Russian?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U140	Madam Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Fatherland and Res Publica Union do not support this proposal to the Government of the Republic and calls for this draft to be voted against. In Estonia, laws have always been translated into other languages, English and Russian as well as other languages. Yes, they have clearly been less translated into languages other than English. The number of laws to be translated may be increased if necessary. Perhaps this need is, and if this need really does, why not? However, this certainly does not require additional legal regulation, which we do believe is necessary to propose to the government. The only official language in Estonia is Estonian. The law does not restrict the use of other languages in personal communication, business or elsewhere. Where possible, the authorities will provide answers in a foreign language to persons who do not speak Estonian or who have asked their questions in another language. There is no need to expand the sphere of use of other languages. It threatens the sphere of use of the Estonian language and reduces the motivation to learn the Estonian language and to communicate in that language. Extending the range of English and Russian will not solve any practical problems. At the same time, it gives a signal that there are other languages in Estonia, in addition to the Estonian language, that they want to give some form of official status, either directly or indirectly. This signal is misleading, but it's definitely symbolic. Whether the aim of adding pressure on English and Russian is to meet the objectives of the election propaganda is to meet the neighbouring country's compatriots' policy, to question the status of Estonian as the only state language or anything else, is not known to the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, but we are convinced that this is detrimental to the state of the Estonian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U141	I would like to ask for the floor as a representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Evgeny Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Mart! I'm very sorry that you had such peculiar words of political propaganda put in your mouth when you spoke in your last sentence about some kind of country policy and you don't know what else. I am very pleased that Mr Herkel has finally said what I asked to clarify both in the Commission and in this Chamber. At least we learned that this is not about status or it is about English and Russian. I think we all agree that this is a pragmatic issue. The fact that Mr Herkel gives some motivation to the initiators of the draft, just as the political propaganda last sentence of Mart Nut's report did, remains on their own conscience. I'm talking about what's in the bill's explanatory statement. It says why we're doing this. We are doing this to improve the legal awareness of Estonian residents. We say it is necessary, and it is not simply taken from the air, but we have consulted experts on this issue. Please refer to the coordination table, there is also a reference to the original sources that respond to all your objections. Praxis, the Centre for Political Studies, says that the need for Russian-language legal translations has been great. This is what officials who work with Russian-speaking people, as well as those who have been interviewed, wanted. This matter has been really investigated and it is not worth talking about the need to do so. As for the lack of motivation to learn Estonian, if the laws are available in Russian, please refer to the response of the Institute of Baltic Studies. They've been looking into this. It doesn't reduce motivation! We could at least remain in argumentary, normal positions and not assign views to the initiators of the draft that we have not put forward. If you want to vote against the bill for your political reasons, you can do so, but please do not spread false claims! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U143	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. As no amendments to the draft decision had been tabled, we are now starting the final vote on the draft decision. Ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption of this decision requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, please let us do a verification of our presence. 75 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 26. Good Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote draft 447 of the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please vote! 35 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, with 29 abstentions. The adoption of the draft decision would have required 51 votes. The draft was not supported and fell out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U144	The first reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party begins. I would like a presentation by Yana Toomi, a member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U145	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Aliens Act, the need for which has been caused by the fact that very many people have turned to us with their concerns, but we cannot resolve these concerns in any way on the basis of the law in force. For me, this whole thing started when I was approached by an older lady who settled in Estonia in 1956. He is Belarusian, a Belarusian who has learned Estonian and obtained Estonian citizenship. She is a widow with two children: a daughter lives in Belarus, and a son with deep mental disabilities lives in an Estonian nursing home. She's 77 years old, she's sick, and she can't handle her life anymore. His wish was that he should live with him and be granted a residence permit in Estonia by his grandson, who is a citizen of Belarus. The young man is a welder in his specialty and he would probably find applications in the Estonian labour market, but he was unable to obtain a residence permit because the current Aliens Act does not allow it. However, the opposite is possible. The person who lives permanently in Estonia and the Estonian citizen have the opportunity to invite their parents or grandparents to live with them, who need care and help, and can also obtain a residence permit for them. It seemed a little absurd to us. I sent a letter to Home Secretary Ken-Mart Vaher asking if there's anything we can do to help this old lady. Police and Border Guard staff advised him to move to Belarus and take his mentally disabled son with him. Of course, he refused because this man is very sick, has schizophrenia, and such relocations are not good for his health. I received a reply from the minister that this lady's only chance is to invite her grandson to Estonia, get her a visa for half a year and then extend it for 90 days if necessary. The reply contained a full list of paragraphs that allow and do not allow this problem to be resolved. That's when we started looking at the law. It turns out that quite a few provisions there are time and time out. I'll introduce them to you one by one. We want to change a point that does not allow us to return to Estonia for people who were born here or lived here before 1990 for at least three years, who were permanent residents of Estonia and then left Estonia for family reasons, but now these family reasons have fallen away. I am thinking, above all, of broken marriages. These people, mainly women who have married, for example, Kazakhstan and have left Estonia, who have now divorced and would like to come back because their parents live here, are not possible because, in the meaning of the law, these people have no connection with Estonia. This is the first amendment we want to make. Second amendment. If a person living permanently in Estonia or an Estonian citizen wants to marry a third-country national, in order for his new spouse to receive a residence permit in Estonia, the law requires a close economic link between two married persons. It is obvious that a close economic link cannot arise when people live in different countries. Before you should still move together and start family life de facto, only then can you develop a close economic bond. When we talk about the need to avoid fictitious marriages, there are a number of different criteria on the basis of which this decision is taken. There must also be psychological dependence between spouses, a family must be permanent and marriage must not be fictitious. So a close economic connection could easily be removed, all the more so since today, especially among young people, there is such a thing as the matrimonial property agreement, which perhaps implies that there is no close economic connection. There's another weird passage in our Aliens Act. I have to admit, I didn't even know it existed until the signals came from the people. There are dozens of people I know personally. The law requires the person to prove that the spouse residing in Estonia is unable to settle in the country of nationality of his or her spouse or that the spouses are unable to settle in another country. This means that if I, as an Estonian citizen, marry a Chinese citizen, in order for my husband, a Chinese citizen, to receive a residence permit in Estonia, I must prove to the citizenship and migration officer that our family cannot live in China. Fortunately, there are not many countries on the face of the earth where it is not possible to live. This provision makes the situation very difficult for people. Even if the spouse has received a temporary residence permit and the family has lived together for three or five years, it must be demonstrated once again that it is not possible to live in his or her country of nationality. When we discussed this, the argument put forward by the representatives of the Police and Border Guard Board in the Commission was that this provision would not be applied in practice. I, as the initiator of the draft law, then had the question that if we have a provision in the law that we do not apply in practice, what does it do in the law at all? Would it not be better to delete this provision rather than force people to run around with paperwork and prove strange things? If we want more people and more children in Estonia, we should probably not create such a gauntlet for people who would like to live in their family life here, not only for foreigners but also for Estonian citizens. If an Estonian citizen marries a citizen of another country, the procedure will be the same. Another important change is what I started when I spoke about the example of this old lady in Belarus. We want the child or granddaughter to be able to apply for residence with a parent or grandparent who lives permanently in Estonia if the parent or grandparent is unable to cope independently because of health or disability. I'm not gonna stop this any longer, because I think it's been broken up. Our idea was that the residence permit was fixed-term and that the person could live with his immediate relative until his death and for six months after that, so that everything could be settled. If the person has not developed any new grounds for obtaining or extending the residence permit during the period he/she has taken care of his/her relative, he/she will leave Estonia six months after the death of the person to be cared for. That's it. I ask you to support this draft, although, unfortunately, he did not find support in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The representative of the Commission will probably talk about this at length. I think this bill is very human and necessary for people. I'm sorry, I forgot one thing. Estonia has 11500 people who have a fixed-term residence permit. For various reasons, these people have not been granted a permanent residence permit. For a few years, we have a legal provision in force, which provides that a person must pass the Estonian language proficiency test and only after he or she has received a B1 level will he or she receive a permanent residence permit. During the discussion on the previous point, it also turned out that there are certainly quite a number of people in Estonia who do not speak Estonian at this level. I'm not going to analyze why this is happening here. But let me remind you that level B1 is not a very simple level. Our children will receive it after graduating from primary school in Russian school, after they have studied Estonian for 10080 hours. There are a considerable number of people who have lived in Estonia for 40, 50, 60 and more years, and the last few years have lived here on the basis of a temporary residence permit. They have no right to invite relatives and to obtain a residence permit for them, whether they are their children or their parents. We also want to abolish this provision so that we can respect the family and give the family the opportunity to join when it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U146	Thank you very much, Mr Toom. Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U147	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You said the Commission didn't support the draft. I want to know what the arguments were, why they decided not to support them, and how you appreciate them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U148	Thank you! I have already listed some of the arguments. I was under the impression that the approach was very formal. As I have already said, there is a provision in the law that requires a person to prove that family life is not possible in another country, but it is said that it is not being used. Another argument, which may even have a point, is that if we let people come here to take care of the elderly, people who do not speak the language, who do not have a job, etc. might become a burden on our social assistance system. My understanding is that if this position remains dominant in this Chamber, then between the first reading and the second reading, we can write a provision on this in the draft. I have to admit that this provision was originally in the draft law, but I found that it could easily be excluded, since, on the basis of the individual cases I have dealt with, there was no such danger. But such a provision of law has been prepared. It provides that if a residence permit has been granted to a parent or grandparent to settle with an adult child or grandson permanently residing in Estonia or to settle with a guardian permanently residing in Estonia, the close relative to whom the residence permit was issued shall be obliged to bear the cost of the care and treatment of the alien. Also, if a residence permit has been issued for the purpose of settling an adult child or grandchild with a parent or grandparent who resides permanently in Estonia, the person who is moving to the country must have international health insurance for all risks for which the country's own nationals are insured, must have stable and regular income or on a current account an amount that takes into account the minimum monthly wage and the length of the residence permit established in accordance with the Government of the Republic's regulation, so that he can support himself without the help of the state's social assistance system. In fact, it is possible to make such a correction. I will add so much that if a person receives a residence permit for residence in Estonia under the current law, he or she is required to complete health insurance for himself or herself. So that's not a risk right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-17_U149	Ladies and gentlemen, We only have a few seconds left, we will continue the debate in tomorrow's session. Thank you very much for your presentation. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
