ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. Is there a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? There's no call. No messages either. We're gonna do a presence check. 67 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, there is no 34.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the third reading of the draft law amending the Civil Status Act, the Population Register Act, the Local Government Organisation Act and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. It is proposed that 464 SEs be put to the final vote. Let us move to preparing the voting procedure. Honourable Riigikogu, I will final vote on the draft law amending the Civil Status Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Population Register Act, the Local Government Organisation Act and the State Fees Act 464. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U3	The next item is the first reading of the draft decision 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic' submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask for a presentation of a speech chair by a member of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Social Democratic Party Group invites you to adopt the decision of the Riigikogu and to propose to the Government of the Republic to amend the "Estonian Maintenance Network Development Plan for the years 2004 to 2015" with a view to creating a single care organisation based on the real needs of those in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U5	Waitress, I'm sorry for a moment. There's too much buzz in the hall! Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U6	Thank you, manager. This development plan begins with the recognition that the fragmentation of funding systems has not enabled such a unified system to be created. Unfortunately, the conclusions do not reach the creation of this integrated system either. Our proposal is for the Government of the Republic to rework this plan to combine the contributions of health insurance, state and local authorities, which would allow joint care treatment. I will not make a long speech, we will submit this draft to you for the second time for the reason that we will give members of the Riigikogu the opportunity to s. A draft, which was unanimously supported by the Committee on Social Affairs on 17 June, was adopted as a decision. On 10 September, despite unanimous support, the final vote on the draft decision did not receive the necessary votes. During the reading of the draft act, the chairman of the committee quite rightly stated that the task of the state and the local authorities is to develop a comprehensive system that is primarily based on the interests of each person in need and on the concerns of these people. The initiators of the draft are also convinced of this and we therefore give the members of the Riigikogu, including the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, the opportunity to vote in favour of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U7	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! This draft decision is the second time before us in exactly the same way that it was here at the beginning of the summer. The issue is very important and necessary in the sense that we really need to address the development of welfare and of the whole issue in a holistic way. It is a proposal to the Government of the Republic to specify the purpose of the development plan for the care network in Estonia. The Commission discussed this issue again at two sittings, on 22 October and 4 November, and we decided to send the draft to this Chamber for discussion today. We also heard the Head of the Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Heli Paliste, who said that work on various development and strategy plans and other documents is ongoing. This principle is being implemented; it has simply not been reflected in this particular development plan for the care network 2004-2015 (I would remind you that until 2015, not 2020) in the very form that the initiators want. The Ministry of Social Affairs considers that it is not now necessary to develop a new development plan, but to carry out the tasks set out in the documents already in place and to follow the principles agreed upon. That's the position of the Ministry of Social Affairs. In essence, no one disputes this objective; the question is simply whether the Riigikogu needs to take a separate decision to propose a specific development plan to the Government of the Republic. The Committee on Social Affairs has decided by consensus to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today, 7 November and the final vote. As this is a decision of the Riigikogu to propose to the Government of the Republic, it requires a majority of 51 votes in the composition. So the Social Affairs Committee did not make any recommendation this time, but lets you decide as independent members of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U9	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Viktor Vassilyev as representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U10	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I can talk about the maintenance network development plan much longer than the eight minutes that are usually allowed here. But I'm not gonna go on long enough, it's still a professional document prepared by specialists. As Mr Heli Paliste, the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, said, the development plan actually exists and development plans must always be reviewed and completed in time. Well, the ministry's right, of course. The Ministry of Social Affairs has, of course, carried out this development plan selectively, some things have been fulfilled, some things are not. I don't know if I'm gonna start reading the bill out of my head, but some people might. A total of 150000 nurses' home visits per year are foreseen. It's almost filled. But there are no 150,000 days' service visits. Then something like a nursing home. No places have been created, although the Russians of Novgorod visited the development plan for the care network and studied several years ago and have made a nursing home for themselves in Novgorod. There are already several of them in Russia. So they're pirate on our document. This bill, presented by the Social Democrats, does not match the Ministry's documents in any way; it does not integrate with them. So the Government of the Republic is strongly opposed to this and will certainly also affect the coalition ambassadors to vote against this proposal. However, this bill that the Social Democrats have put in place is a declaration by all of us to the Government of the Republic that it is not fulfilling the promises made to the people, that it is not fulfilling the development plans drawn up by specialists. With this in mind, of course, it is important to vote in favour of the draft law tabled by the Socialists, which I also call on all of you to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U11	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no more calls. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. We are going to prepare the final vote. The draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu and therefore we will do a verification of the presence immediately before the vote, but right now we are inviting people to the Chamber. Honourable Riigikogu, there is a need for a presence check before voting. 61 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 40. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote draft 498 of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic submitted by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with 2 abstentions. As the draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, the draft was not supported and will not be adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U12	Today's third item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Forest Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation by Jaanus Tamkivi, Member of the Environment Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U13	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 September of this year, the first reading was completed on 25 September and the deadline for amendments was 9 October. Obviously because the draft law has been negotiated and discussed nicely with the parties during the preparation process and is moving in the direction that the forestry development plan has set out, as I said at first reading, no amendments to the draft have been tabled to the Commission. During the period between first and second readings, the draft has been discussed at two meetings of the Commission on 24 October and 4 November. At the meeting of the Commission on 24 October, the representatives of the Estonian Private Forest Association, the Estonian Nature Foundation and the Ministry of the Environment participated in and presented their proposals to amend the draft. The Commission discussed a number of other aspects and it was decided to finalise 11 amendments in the form of proposals from the Commission. In a comprehensive way, I say that the vast majority of them are of a technical nature and are aimed at cutting red tape in the forest sector, making it easier and clearer, and not bothering entrepreneurs and private forest owners with excessive paperwork. At all times, however, there must be a solid and clear overview of what is happening in the forest sector, what cutting and what kind of reforestation works are being carried out, and the possibility to check. I would like to introduce you to two of these 11 changes. The draft amends the text of § 231 of the Forest Act in force by replacing the possibility for the local government unit to set restrictions on the protection of facilities by the possibility of imposing restrictions on the protection of dwellings from air pollution, noise, heavy wind or snow smoke, or to reduce the risk of fire, or the management of forests designated to prevent the spread of forest fire, as the aim is to protect housing. At the same time, for this purpose, the possibility of restricting the cutting of innovation to the felling species is added, as there may be a need, for example, to replace clear cutting with security cutting. The Commission's amendment complements the text of the draft with the words 'in agreement with the landowner' in order to ensure agreement with the landowner on the restrictions to be imposed by the plan. The point is that, if one or the other plan is known to be adopted by the municipality, such as conservation forests, the owner of the forest is to be placed under restrictions in order to dispose of his property, then an agreement should be reached with the forest owner before such restrictions are put on the plan. What exactly is this agreement, whether something is compensated or there are other agreements, is then, in each case, a matter of negotiation between the local government and the forest owner. One amendment relates to the fact that, in the case of cuttings, there would be information on the edge of the felling, who would carry out the works, who would be the owner of the forest, the contact details and the time when the works would be carried out. On the proposal of the Estonian Private Forest Association, this requirement was slightly relaxed and limited to the fact that the information board must only be in the forest for clear cuttings. The data of forest owners are not required, must only be the contact details of the operator of the works, and there is no need to put the time of the works on the information board, because sometimes, depending on the weather, the time of the forest works can change very much. The contact details of the contractor are listed there, and if the person disturbs the organisation of these works, he or she will be able to contact the performer and ask for information or forward it to where he or she needs to be. This is a brief summary of the debate. The commission made the following procedural decisions: to propose to the Riigikogu plenary to stop the second reading of the draft 463 and, if the second reading of the draft is completed, to send the draft to the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U14	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. As mentioned, the Committee on the Environment has tabled 11 amendments. Let's go through them. Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 are all proposals by the commission and are fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 463. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U15	We're going to the next item. The first reading of the draft law amending the Defence Union Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group begins. I ask Marianne Mikko, Member of the Riigikogu, to present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, To s. a The Defence Union Act in force until 1 April did not provide for a restriction on nationality for a member of youth organisations of the Defence Union. However, as of 1 April 2013, the law provides that only a 7 to 18-year-old Estonian citizen may be a young member. The Youth Eagle Charter still in force states that young people who live permanently in Estonia can become members of the organisation. The statute of the daughters of home states that Estonian citizens, who are 8 to 18 years old, can become members. Thus, the new Defence Union Act, which entered into force on 1 April 2013, prohibits the participation of stateless young men in the ranks of young eagles. The aim of the youth organisations of the Defence League is to increase young people's love for their homeland, increase their sense of belonging and love for the Estonian language and mind, and provide young people with activities that develop their mental and physical abilities. Any child and young person living in Estonia could have the right to participate in such activities and teaching. Discrimination on grounds of nationality discourages rather than integrates stateless young people. The participation of young people without nationality in the youth organisations of the Defence League contributes to the learning of the national language, and group cohesion is a very effective means of increasing loyalty to the state. The current practice makes it very clear that the presence of stateless young people in the youth organisations of the Defence League does not pose a threat. Their right to belong to these organisations shows that the state does not call into question the loyalty and goodwill of stateless young people towards the state. The abolition of the nationality restriction in the law shows that the state does not reject young people who are interested in participating in the work of the Defence League. By adopting the law, the current contradiction between the law and the Youth Eagle Charter would be resolved, and homedaughters would be given the opportunity to recruit stateless girls and ladies if they so wished. The retroactive entry into force of the Act obliges young people who were excluded from the organisation after the entry into force of the new Act of the Defence League to be members of the Young Eagles. The young eagles of the Defence League have 3,500 boys in their ranks. Basically, the requirement for citizenship concerns young people in Alutaguse's chess, but not just them. The inclusion of such a discriminatory requirement in the Defence Union Act may have a detrimental effect on the desire of any Member State of the European Union or third country, such as a young man from the United States, to participate in the activities of the Youth Eagle Organisation. The day before the Social Democrats submitted a draft amendment to § 25 of the Defence League Act, I asked the Minister of Defence in this very Chamber for a position on the situation. I quote to him: 'I think so,' said Minister Reinsalu, 'that Estonian citizenship is certainly a necessary prerequisite for the active members of the Defence League. As far as the patriotic activities of boys and girls are concerned, I am thinking about the organisations of the Defence League Homedaughters and Young Eagles, in their case, it is my view that we should not regulate it restrictively at the level of the law. " In this way, the Minister of Defence gave a blessing to the draft Act amending § 25 of the Socialist Defence Union Act. We Social Democrats believe in the rule of law and are convinced that once we made a mistake as legislator without knowing ourselves, we will correct the mistake that has been made sooner rather than later. This is an important signal to our citizens and to the people of Maryland at all. It is an important signal to us who sit here and give life to laws in good faith. It is vital that people have respect for us as advocates of justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U17	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Marianne Mikko! Kaia Iva, Member of the National Defence Committee of the Chair, for a co-report!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U18	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party before submitting it to the first reading at its meeting on 7 October, 22 October and 4 November. Marianne Mikko, Member of the National Defence Commission, took part in the meeting on 7 October. In addition, Brigadier General Meelis Kiili, Head of the General Staff of the Defence League Lea Vaba, Deputy Head of the Defence Service Department of the Ministry of Defence, Captain Tõnis Message, and Lawyer Guido Pääsuke were invited to the meeting. At this meeting, the position of the representative of the initiator of the draft was heard and the opinions of Aivar Engel, the head of the adviser-secretariat of the Government of the Republic and the National Defence Commission on the draft were examined. The Head of the Defence League also gave his position on the draft and mediated the views of the Youth Eagles and the Homedaughters Central Assembly of the youth organisations of the Defence Union. The Government of the Republic discussed the draft law at its meeting on 25 July and decided not to support it in its proposed form, as the provisions of the current Defence Union Act were discussed in the Riigikogu and the integration of the membership of the youth organisations with Estonian citizenship was supported at the time by the Central Council of the Defence Union. In addition, the Government of the Republic took the view that the central assembly of the Defence League must take a position on the members of the Defence League in particular. The central body of the Defence League is known to be discussing this issue. a November 22, 2005. The draft initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party aims to extend the right of residence and residence of Young Eagles and Daughters of the Special Organisations of the Defence League to stateless young people aged 7 to 18 who hold a residence permit for a long-term resident or have a permanent right of residence in the Republic of Estonia. I would point out that according to the current Defence Union law, it is not a special organisation of the Defence Union, but a member of a youth organisation. Since the statute of the special organisation Youth Eagles established under the previous Defence Union Act also allowed membership for non-citizens and legal persons residing in Estonia, in the case of five young eagles of the Republic of Estonia whose membership has been suspended, who are members of the exclusion from the Defence Union, the introduction of the citizenship requirement by the new Defence Union Act would be, on the one hand, a violation of the principle of their legitimate expectations. The Constitution of the Daughters only provides membership for the citizens of the Republic of Estonia. At the same time, the draft initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group has not taken into account that a young member can also be part of the Defence League's chess, Women's Home Defence and Cyber Defence Unit. The age of the young members of the Defence League's chess, Women's Home Protection and Cyber Defence Unit ranges from 16 to 18 years, and they also perform defence duties. According to § 11 of the Peace Time National Defence Act, the voluntary National Defence Organisation is part of the Defence Forces. In addition, § 124 of the Constitution states that Estonian citizens are obliged to take part in national defence on the basis and according to the procedure laid down by law. Thus, the responsibility and task of national defence could only be assigned to Estonian citizens. The discussion in the National Defence Committee and the explanatory memorandum to the draft law revealed that the initiators want to expand the membership of Youth Eagles and Home Daughters. In addition, the National Defence Committee discussed the possibility that young people living in Estonia could also be part of the Youth Organisations of the Defence League, which is why the draft law under discussion was amended and clarified accordingly. In order to achieve the objective of the draft law, it is also necessary to supplement the Defence Union Act with § 901, in order to rule out the incompatibility with § 90 (4) of the same Act. Following the above discussion and in the Committee on National Defence, the National Defence Committee decided at its meeting on 7 October to continue the debate in the Commission by consensus, and at its meeting on 4 November this year, the National Defence Committee approved by consensus the text and explanatory memorandum to be submitted to first reading in the amended form of the draft law. For more information on the text of the draft law submitted by the National Defence Commission with the agreement of the initiator of the draft law, please refer to the first reading as amended. The purpose of the new wording of § 1 as a special provision of the draft is to enable a natural person aged 7 to 15 who lives permanently in the Republic of Estonia to belong to the Youth Eagles and Daughters of the youth organisations of the Defence League. According to § 6 (1) of the Citizenship Act, an alien who is at least 15 years old may become an Estonian citizen. For example, a stateless person who is a young member of the Defence League has the opportunity to apply for Estonian citizenship and to continue his activities in the Defence League when he reaches the age of 16. At the same time, the revised wording of the first reading of the bill allows the citizens of the European Union who live permanently in the Republic of Estonia to become members of the Youth Organisation of the Defence League. In order to achieve the objective of the draft law, § 901 is added to the Defence Union Act in order to rule out the incompatibility with § 90 (4). In view of the above, § 1 (2) of the draft law states that the membership of the Defence League of a person who was a member of a special organisation of the Defence League prior to the entry into force of the current Defence League Act is considered to be a young member of the youth organisation as of 1 April 2013. The draft also states that by 1 October 2014, a 16-year-old and older member must comply with § 25 (1) of the Defence Union Act. In the light of the above amendment, the title of the draft law under consideration has also been changed as it is no longer an amendment to § 25 of the Defence League Act. At the meeting on 22 October, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be included on the agenda of the session of the Riigikogu on 7 November for the first reading. On the basis of § 98 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the National Defence Committee decided, with the consent of the initiator of the draft, to submit the draft to the first reading as amended, together with the explanatory memorandum. At the meeting of 22 October, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop reading the draft law under discussion and to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be set. a 12 November at 13 a.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U19	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U20	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, thank you very much for the thorough review and for the work you have done in the Commission on this draft law. Surely you also have data on the number of young people who, as of 1 April, should have been excluded from the Youth Eagle by the current law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U21	There are five young eagles all over Estonia that are currently affected by this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U22	Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you, Kaia Iva! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 458. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 458 amendments. a 12 November at 13 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U23	Our fifth item today is the first reading of the draft law amending § 5 of the State Family Benefits Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U24	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Good fellows! I have the honour to introduce the draft amendment to § 5 of the State Family Benefits Act initiated by the Socialists. The development of the proposal was due to the need to reduce the number of children living in poverty, to support the full development of all children and to contribute to increasing confidence in families with children. Child benefit for families with one or two children is currently €19.18 per child per month. This is not a serious lever that would give the benefits of society a little to families with children. Although it has lost at least half of its purchasing power compared to 2004, the government has frozen it to a large part of our children. After all, the lion's share of our children and young people grows around 250,000, in other words, almost 94% in single- and two-child families. By the way, embarrassing, but it will be ten years since the introduction of the EUR 19 child allowance in January next year, and so far no money has been found to help the EUR 19 increase in the cost of living. The Social Democrats have repeatedly proposed to the Riigikogu to triple universal child support to EUR 57.54 per month, but in vain. An almost gold - haired country doesn't have money for its children. While the population is shrinking, the birth rate is falling despite the fact that the number of women of childbearing age is now at its peak, such shortsightedness can make us cry. It's true, something changed from summer. However, the need-based family support implemented in July, which was intended to reduce the proportion of children in poverty, must be considered to be essentially a failure because of the abusive procedures for applying for support and the ridiculously low amount of support, the vast majority of applications for support have been abandoned and the money does not reach the target group. In September, 3814 families were paid needs-based family allowances instead of the estimated 30361 families. And this is a major baptism of child support reform, although the so-called "need-based child support" is essentially a pinch of social assistance. To obtain this additional ten euros, a parent must visit the quarter to prove that he or she is not a camel, i.e. submit to the municipality all kinds of income documents proving that the family is poor enough to receive "need-based child support." The needs-based child support will put our children in boxes and send a message to society that there will be a cross and misery along with having and raising children. First, we let a family with children fall into poverty, and then we donate a few grocery stores. Families in distress, of course, need full support and, at the very least, so-called "need-based child support" could be called cosmetic assistance for income support, not misleadingly child support. Under no circumstances, however, should a family first fall into poverty in order to receive assistance, since by its very nature, no child benefit can be a livelihood. Children's benefits must remain universal, otherwise the state would put labels on children and only show that some children are more welcome in our low birth rate country than the other. Such an attitude is disastrous. Where the basic principle of need-based child benefit can be brought out, the experience of Greece and other southern European countries is illustrated. Today, the birth rate has fallen dramatically, reaching just over one child per woman of childbearing age. If the family has to rely on the state for help only when poverty is already in the house, children will rather not be given birth. We have the same trend. Young people are increasingly aware that children increase the risk of poverty, while lifeless things speak of prosperity. After all, potential parents know that in absolute poverty or at risk of poverty, we have over 63000 children, or 18% of all children and young people under 18 years of age. In the development plans, the government expects a birth rate of 1.71 by 2015. The sad fact is, however, that while in 2010 there were statistically 1.64 children per woman of childbearing potential, in 2012 this figure was already 1.59. However, in order to maintain a recovery level, it should be at least 2.1. Iive continues to decline, despite the fact that we have over 200,000 women in the best birth age, this figure is now at the top. In a few years, however, this figure will start to decrease dramatically, decreasing by 70,000 in a few decades. Apart from the need-based, bottom-burned family policy in southern Europe, which seems ever closer to our leading politicians, we also have a second, Nordic path. European studies and Nordic experience show that birth rates are relatively high and child poverty is low in those countries where everyone is paid equally and noticeable family benefits, and the state is doing what it can to provide children with the necessary services in kindergarten places, free education, school transport, etc. All of this helps to reconcile parents' work and family life. Families do not even have their first child in recent years, although ideally they still want two or three children. Studies show that having children is postponed mainly because of a lack of confidence. The survey 'The factors influencing birth in Estonia 2008' shows that real behaviour can be helped primarily by the tangible support felt by the state, the availability of childcare and the knowledge that even a lost job or a single parent can raise their children, provide them with a full childhood and a good education. Young people, the best-viable people, are also the most numerous among emigrants from Estonia for economic reasons. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I repeat: the purpose of family allowances is to ensure that all families with children are partially reimbursed for the costs of caring for, raising and studying their children. All children are equal and have the right to equal treatment. The universal family benefit system supports the principle that every child is valuable, reduces inequality and prevents child labelling. The monthly child benefit supports the child throughout the child's life and helps the parent to plan the child's costs in advance for a longer period of time. Estonian family policy has so far focused on supporting births, but raising children of adult age has been neglected as necessary. Parental benefit costs more money than other family benefits combined. Children's benefits, paid until the child reaches the age of age, will be allocated by the State to nearly EUR 101 million this year and parental benefits, paid for only a year and a half, will cost more than EUR 170 million. Faith, as if the support of a country lasting one and a half years was enough for families, is naive. In Estonia, the number of families with one child is the highest among recipients of income support. In 2007, Praxis, the Centre for Policy Studies, carried out a study on the impact of family financial support in order to alleviate poverty in Estonia, according to which family financial support reduces the proportion of children in poverty. Finally. This draft amends § 5 (3) of the State Family Benefits Act. Under the current law, child benefit for the first and second children is paid twice the amount of child benefit, for the third and for each subsequent child, eight times the amount of child benefit. The bill increases the child benefit paid to the first and second children to six times the amount of child benefit. When the bill is adopted as a law, the economic livelihood of the 160,000 Estonian family will be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U25	Thank you very much. Please, any questions? Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The legislative initiative you presented is very commendable and the Centre Party Group supports this proposal. The first, which the government coalition often responds to, is that there is not enough money in the state budget to really implement such a reform, in some sense a reform. At some meetings with the people, there have been proposals that why not impose parental benefits on what you were talking about, the ceiling, and then on the resources that are left over, a cover for what your draft provides for. What do you think about the proposal to introduce a parental benefit ceiling?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U27	Thank you for your question. The parental benefit could indeed be distributed more evenly, but this money alone is not enough to bring it down, in any case, more resources are needed from the state budget. When it is said that the welfare of our country has grown, it has been said from this speaker yesterday that the well-being of our people has not really increased. It is very important that, together with the growth of the country's economy, people's well-being and children's well-being also grow.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U28	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U29	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I, too, fully support the bill that you have presented. The problems you have highlighted are very topical. The need-based family allowance in Estonia is 9.59 euros and must be applied for in the municipality, with bus tickets usually cost about half of it and, of course, internet access is not available for people who need this support. You have certainly studied the experience of Latvia and Lithuania. Finland has a higher standard of living than we do, but it would be interesting to hear about Finland as well. Do you know what that support is like in the neighboring countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U30	Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you, Heljo Pikhof! I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U31	If we take the first and second children of the family, then in Finland, for example, the first child's allowance is EUR 100 and the second child's allowance is EUR 110 50. In France, the second child's allowance is EUR 123 92 cents. In Germany, the first child allowance is EUR 184, the second child allowance is EUR 184. In Greece, as the Prime Minister said, the situation is worse: the first child's allowance is EUR 8 22 cents, while the second child's allowance is EUR 24 65 cents. In Hungary, the first child's allowance is EUR 42 (in the case of a single parent, the first child's allowance is EUR 48) and the second child's allowance is EUR 46. There has already been an annual subsidy for Iceland; I am not going to make this a comparison here. But let's take Ireland as an example, there is the first and second child's allowance of 150 euros. In most countries, however, child support is at a different level than in Estonia. If you take Bulgaria, yes, Bulgaria really has a lower refund, that is EUR 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U32	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft amendment to § 5 of the State Family Benefits Act at 488 two meetings of the Committee: 22 October and 5 November. We also had the government's position on this draft. The government didn't support the bill. Their claims were that the impact of the draft had not been analysed, the corresponding resources were not foreseen in the national budget strategy for the following year and the following year, etc. Similarly, the government said that at the beginning of next year this Green Paper on family and children's benefits will finally be presented to us, which will systematically and comprehensively address a wide range of ways to increase the birth rate, how to improve the situation of our families and children. As the Committee on Social Affairs has already discussed this draft several times, there was no very long debate. I didn't see anyone in a mood that didn't want to support children and families. I think that the result of the vote came largely because the 106 million or 107 million that this measure would cost really are not in the draft budget. The Commission took the following decisions: First, send a draft to the first reading of the 488 Riigikogu Hall by 7 November. There were 2 members of the Commission in favour of completing the first reading, 5 against and no abstentions. On the basis of the results of the vote, it was decided to reject the draft law at first reading, but when the first reading is closed in the plenary, the deadline for submitting amendments was 21 November at 5.15 p.m. The Commission's side is all there is at the moment. As you can see, there are still many questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U33	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U34	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said the main reason why the government didn't support it was because the impact analysis wasn't done. What analysis was carried out in order to introduce a need-based family allowance, the EUR 9? What figures show that it is precisely EUR 9 that will help a person out of poverty or bring a child out of poverty?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U35	Thank you. In the case of needs-based family support, an analysis was carried out in this sense to examine who was in the most difficult situation. Two things were examined with regard to this legislative amendment, which has now entered into force and on the basis of which a larger amount will be paid over the next two years. Firstly, to provide needs-based support for families who really live in poverty, or whose income is below the level of subsistence. As you remember, we did quite a lot of work to set up this system somehow in our legal space and make it work. It is true that the system has not been operational as much as it could be expected from the analysis, i.e. that several tens of thousands of children will receive support. The amounts, of course, are not exactly what you say. The first end of this law entered into force on 1 July 2013, and the support provided for a single-child family is indeed EUR 9.59, but for a family with two or more children it is EUR 19.18. From 2015, this measure will reach the planned level, i.e. the allowance for a single-child family will be 19.18 euros, and the allowance for a two- or more-child family will be 38.36 euros. These are certainly not large sums, but I hope that every euro that goes specifically to those families and children who are in the most difficult situation, whatever the reasons, will help them. That's another thing. Here, you yourself have also been intimidated by the fact that the state is only going to 'need-to-need' systems and universal systems are being abolished. We must definitely not go this way and we will not go either, at least as long as the IRL is in this coalition. Universal, universal child benefits for all must continue and, if possible, we must increase them. We have actually done so because, together with the dispute about this same need-based family allowance, we were able to make sure that universal support for all children increased to EUR 76.72 since the third child of the family on 1 July 2013, and since 1 January 2015, it is already EUR 95.9. We were able to push it through with regard to universal child support. The reason why this support is from the third child of the family is because, as you know, you have read these analyses, that in the most difficult economic situation in Estonia, it is precisely those people who have three or more children in the family. Then the parents raising a child alone come, who are more or less on the same stick, and then the pensioners living alone come. If we look at the few possibilities and do not make political propaganda, we must first rely on these children and their families. I do not want to have a debate with you today on the fact that I do not want child benefits to rise, and you do. I'm sure we have that in common. Specific options need to be looked at.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U36	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! I sincerely regret that the government coalition and also the coalition in this Chamber once again do not support the draft law initiated by the Socialists. But my question is somewhat broader, and it also concerns needs-based family support. At that time, when this draft was prepared and finally adopted, the number of those in need of this support was ca 30,000. Today, its applicants are about ten times less. You yourself also said that, for some reason, this system has not been fully implemented. What could be the reasons? The quarters go in a row, the applicants are ten times less than those who actually need this support. Perhaps it should come to these real reasons, so that at least this system can be fully implemented, and then we could move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U38	Thank you, good questioner! This is not the subject of this draft, but I have also watched as the need-based family benefit system has begun. I guess every new system is gonna start hard. He started up half a year ago. It's only been up for a few months. One reason for this is certainly that people's awareness is not high enough, even though the state has been communicating here. The second thing is that perhaps when this system is fully operational as of 1 January 2015, when the sums are twice as large, i.e. it is already 19.18 euros for a family with one child and 38.36 euros for a family with two or more children, people's own interest will also increase. When we see that this system is going to start, I will tell you that, because of the purely financial impact on the budget, we cannot compare these two systems, because the volumes vary several times. If I say so by heart, in the order of 4 to 5 million, even less, about EUR 3 million is the amount that goes to need-based family benefits. If we increase universal child support according to this draft, this amount will be over 100 million, 106 million per year, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. There are also purely national decision-making positions. But I wouldn't go against the two systems. If the need-based system justifies itself, we must look at it with some perspective, then it is always possible to increase these amounts. This burden on the state budget is significantly lower than the increase in universal child benefit for the first and second children. But I hope that the Estonian state will reach this level, where we will certainly increase universal child support from the first child. When it was done ten years ago, it did, in general, help those children who lived in poverty, as the statistics show. Whoever was in power at the time, I don't remember, but it was a step forward. But it's been ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U39	Thank you very much. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U40	Thank you, Madam President. Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs! For a third child to be born, no doubt the family needs a first and second child. Very often, these children are chosen to give birth elsewhere simply because it is safer and it is much easier to raise children. It is really regrettable that a number of proposals have not been supported in this Chamber, whether it is giving children extra votes to make favourable decisions for families or supporting an education of interest. I know that the Commission did not even support the second reading of this draft. What message will go out today for families with Estonian children, where one or two children will grow? The fact that it is possible to apply for needs-based family allowance from the municipality does not mean that you are not. Yesterday the Fifth Congress on Social Work was, and the way social workers raised the issue of families with children there should have just listened. What is this message?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U41	I know what you want to achieve. You want to make it look like you want to raise child support, so does the Central Party, but everyone else doesn't want to. This is not the right message! I took this bill and came here to talk to you about it, not hide. The message is that child and family policies are very important. We have also taken steps now, but I do not think they are enough. We definitely have to move on. You can rest assured that if I succeed in pursuing politics, I will be very active in this matter. But every policy has its real opportunities, and the current opportunities have been what they are, unfortunately, I say. In fact, priorities should be more focused on children and families. We have had quite heated debates with you from this platform, whether not to fundamentally change our entire democratic structure and electoral system in order to force everyone else, in a consensual manner, to deal with children in particular. But that's different. The message should be that according to the current logic, the state will do as much as possible for children and families. My personal view is that it is always possible to do more, the ceiling, I think, we have still not achieved. However, yes, this particular draft was not supported by the Commission. As far as the subject of the first and second children and birth is concerned, the bad news would be if we lowered all kinds of support, and so has the Republic of Estonia in the meantime. This is what affects the emotional confidence of people, especially women, who largely decide whether or not children are born. But I think that these subsidies, not even in the amount that your draft provides for, cannot be a determining factor, whether we have the first or other children, but a very important issue is reconciling work and family life. Today, Estonia has implemented a very rich measure in the form of parental benefit for a year and a half from the point of view of its abilities. In addition, the question is whether we have child care, whether there is a sufficiently flexible working environment for parents who have stayed at home but want to come back to work, etc. We still have a lot of other questions. The message is that this bill will not be a magic wand, but there will also have to be many other measures to solve the birth rate problem. As regards the countries of southern Europe which Heljo was talking about here, Greece and other countries, they have already started a very serious economic crisis several years ago, and that is certainly one of the reasons why birth rates have fallen in these regions. These countries have also had to make cuts, but on the other hand, even they have begun to realise that, although they do not have cold winters, they still have to support their children and their families. These are, in fact, things that have also affected our society.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U42	Thank you very much. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U43	I think if someone always explains that there are no options, it's actually ignoring the problem. It is the responsibility of each government union to create these opportunities. The Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee could explain to us why these opportunities are not being created. The question is this: if the support of the first child last rose ten years ago and Margus Tsahkna expressed his wish here to continue with the support of voters in Estonian politics, how many years will the support of the first child now rise?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U44	Thank you. We are not here to discuss Margus Tsahkna's personal question. I would like this support to rise immediately, so that it would have risen a long time ago. I hope that it will rise as quickly as possible and perhaps we will see it with you in the half of 2015, from 1 June. We don't know yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U45	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good waitress! At times, it seems to me that you're in government, and then again it seems that you're not in government, that you don't know what you're doing. It is, of course, a good thing that your personal feeling is that support should be increased. Heljo Pikhof has read well about children's benefits in other countries. It is true that Greece was a country where they were even lower than ours, perhaps for obvious reasons. But what about Latvia and Lithuania, what is the level of child support in the Baltics? Maybe our people would like to go to Latvia to raise children, not Finland. Unfortunately, I have heard that it is very convenient to raise children in Finland, that everything is taken into account, that child's illness and so on. Maybe you have the data because you've been working on this for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U47	Thank you, good questioner! It is obvious that I am not in the government, I am a member of the Riigikogu and I chair the Social Affairs Committee. There are ministers in the government, and here we are giving you a mandate or not a mandate to the government. In this sense, as a Member of Parliament, I have a more free hand to express my views. As chairman of the committee, I express the views that the Commission has reached. It certainly leaves its seal on what the coalition is and what the opposition is like. I don't have to tell you again here. As far as subsidies are concerned, if we also look at the so-called performance and size of our GDP compared to Finland, we realise that we are still behind. No matter what promises and slogans somebody has set up here, we are actually behind Finland in terms of productivity and, therefore, our chances in social policy are both nominally and relatively lower. As far as Latvia and Lithuania are concerned, I have looked at all the measures that are being applied to our families and I have written out the sums. We can laugh at it, but when you sum it all up, I think that Estonia is still in a pretty good position here compared to the other Baltic countries. We have simply at one point made the choice of investing very large amounts of money for families and children in the first year and a half, or parental benefit. There will be almost EUR 200 million, EUR 170 million with something. It's been our decision. But, of course, we need to look at all the subsidies in combination, plus the whole environment we are creating by providing childcare and other things that we need. In this sense, I think that Estonia has nothing to be ashamed of compared to the other former republics of the Soviet Union. But we're not done yet. I am not the man who says that the National Audit Office has no right to carry out analyses. The National Audit Office has had the right to a wide range of issues and the National Audit Office reminded us of these things, after all, there was nothing new about it. If we want to become a great nation or at least maintain our current population, then family and child policy must certainly be the most important issue that we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U48	Thank you very much. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U49	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! The government's complaint to our draft was that the spring national budget strategy did not take into account the increase in child support. However, there are no changes in VAT included in the 2014 state budget package in the spring budget strategy. How do you judge such double standards? Is it suitable for one self-respecting cultural country or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U50	Thank you, good questioner! This is already the area of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But it is indeed difficult to pursue social policy if, at the same time as the budgetary strategy, we are currently dealing with other drafts that have come in here in the Riigikogu, and we are also seeing the amendments that are being tabled. They change the tax system and are not planned in the budgetary strategy either. Even if we are discussing the basic law of the state budget in parallel with the state budget, which must enter into force on the same day that the state budget enters into force. I think this is not a normal situation, I absolutely agree with that. But it was not a government complaint, it was a statement, one of those arguments why this bill should not be approved. Indeed, in this respect, the government is right that the budget strategy document does not provide for an increase of 106 million child benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U51	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U52	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, You don't always have to find more money in the system, you can move money inside the system. In my opinion, it is unfair that EUR 170 million will be included in raising children for only 1.5 years and that there will be only 101 million for the rest of the time. Does the Social Affairs Committee have statistics on how many parents and their children have left Estonia after they have received parental benefit?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U53	Thank you, good questioner! I don't have that kind of statistics on me here, but we can take that data out. This is actually quite an interesting question, how many will really be after 1.5 years when the parental benefit measure, which I think is very good compared to Nordic countries, will leave Estonia. The reasons for leaving Estonia are certainly complex, but this figure would indeed be interesting to know. I ask the people of my committee, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and other authorities, to highlight this figure. That's a pretty good question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U54	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U55	Thank you. Honourable waitress! If the Social Democrats put forward any proposal to improve the situation of families with children, then it is always the government's view that a white paper or a green paper is coming. Unfortunately, it is not enough and the number of children in Estonia is not increasing. Apart from this ridiculous need-based family allowance for the first and second children, please mention the measures with which the state has assisted families with one and two children in the last six years. I would also like to remind you of what happened to recreational education, too, and this support was not granted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U56	Thank you. Families with one or two children have developed and entered into force the same needs-based family allowance. I've already told you about the third, fourth and more children. In my opinion, it was a fundamental breakthrough that we doubled child benefit from the third child. Its impact is certainly great, since families with three or more children live below the poverty line even when both parents are working. This is a critical point that we have to deal with; it is certainly a burning issue. What other measures have been taken? Parental pension, but it does not directly concern children. It is simply an appreciation for raising a child, and I think it is also a message that the country has given. The old-age pension has been established and will enter into force definitively in 2015. This equates those who raise children to those who do not have children and, in the future, creates equality in the pension system, in the sense that when a person goes to work, according to the current pension system, he collects more money into his pension pillar than he who is at home and raises children. We decided to add funds to the parent's pension pillar in return for raising children in order to balance pensions. In the meantime, the single birth grant for triplets and a higher number of multiple births is now EUR 1000 per child. This is a multiple increase, but these children are not born in hundreds and thousands, but are a few cases a year. So the measures applied to the first and second children are not very much directly, but we have raised at least twice and we will probably raise the income support limit for the third time next year. It also has a direct impact on family life. In fact, even during the economic crisis, Estonia has been able to contribute to the education system, which means that we have not reduced the money. Our neighbours Latvians, for example, made cuts in the education system during the economic crisis. Estonia put more money in it. You yourself were also involved in these decisions, and you remember that the best economic policy, as well as family policy, is education policy. That's what we decided together. Then what we were able to do with the reform of the labour market was to make the labour market more liberal in the same way, in other words, at the time we made maximum use of the social fund's money, or we made active labour market measures flexible. I believe that this has enabled work to be done for those people who have faced difficulties in unemployment of almost 17%. I think that, given the pretty difficult time of the last six years, we have managed to take measures to help families with one and two children. As far as direct payments are concerned, there is really room for improvement here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U57	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, Have you been able to carry out, for the first time in years, a single economic analysis in the Commission on the fact that if, for example, parents, families receive the same triple or six times the child benefit, how quickly it will return to our economy and how quickly it will reach the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U59	Thank you. We have not carried out this analysis separately. It is likely that this money will immediately go into circulation and that tax will have to be deducted from it. I have been thinking that if we are able to take a step of over EUR 100 million in the near future (I would remind you that these are euros, they are no longer kroons, that is to say, this amount must be multiplied by 15.6 in the old sense, this is very, very large money), then there should be a consensual analysis, as consensual as it can be. This is a qualitative leap in the development of all child and family benefits. We need to analyse whether and how to do it, whether it is the best way. Because if we make this decision, we're not going to turn it back, and we probably won't be able to make a new injection of money that big for a long time. That is my position, despite my outlook on the world. We need to make sure that this 106 million, or it is a little more or less, is the amount of money that we put into this system would have been used as well as possible. That's the back bottom. Such an analysis will come to Parliament at the beginning of next year in the form of the same Green Paper, which has sometimes been ridiculed because it has been going on for several years. There were now firm promises on our table at the Commission's meeting on 5 November. So it's my feeling that the same amount of money will come from the child and family benefits system in the next few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U60	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U61	Thank you, Madam President. Good Margus, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! You always talk about children and support for families so beautifully, be it the Forum or the Chamber of the Riigikogu that it is good to hear it right now. But what doesn't follow is action. You say I do, but I can't. First I ask the question: what is stopping you, what really is stopping you from making your beautiful story come true? I think you have all the tools, you're in power, you're the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. The second thing, let's leave it at the analysis. You know that the Ministry of Social Affairs has already completed a family and children's development plan several years ago, which is very good material to implement all these good ideas, including the triple of child support.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U62	Thank you. I've read this development plan. It states that universal subsidies must be increased, that they must be multiplied, that they do not. There are, however, many other measures that we are dealing with and which we have also carried out. Thanks for the compliment that my story is nice and nice, but we've done something over the years. Every cent and every euro that goes to children is important. We have been able to increase direct payments to children to a total of over 78 million, which, compared to the amount we see here, is not a qualitative leap. We have doubled universal child support since the third child, which is a concrete step. These things were not included in the coalition agreement; they were done in addition to everything else. I would not ridicule the parental pension; I would rather say that its introduction is certainly a very big and fundamental step. This was our election promise, and we have fulfilled this in full. This job was not easy, you know it very well. We've taken these steps a lot. I would like to say that the small result is not that, in the next financial perspective for the European Union until 2020, it is precisely the social sector and the issue of children and families that are very strongly embedded. More than EUR 200 million goes directly to families involved in informal care, in particular childcare, childcare and so on. There are many things that have been done in the last two and a half years. What have we not done? We have not been able to implement this particular draft of yours. We have not made such a promise either, but we have nevertheless moved forward on this path. I attach particular importance to the change of thinking. In the past, it was very clear that there were revenue ministers and income politicians who deal with finance and the economy, they are positive because they bring money into the budget. Those who are primarily engaged in social policy were considered to be ministers of expenditure and cost policy. I think in the last two or three years that understanding has changed. If you invest in a person, a child, a disabled person in the right time and on time, this money will be returned to the state budget as taxes in the future. That, too, is a big step. I predict to you that in the coming years we will also make a qualitative leap in the field of child and family benefits in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U63	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs! My colleague, Mailis Reps, asked how soon this EUR 19 will return to the economy. You were talking about something else, but you could have admitted that this money would be taken to the store right away. We all know that food is actually being bought for children and perhaps something else, but since I do not know exactly, I am asking: do the Social Affairs Committee have any data on which this money is being spent and how quickly this money will be spent in the family?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U65	Thank you. Do you mean need-based family support or universal child support? With regard to universal child support, different people have said different things in this remote control. Whoever has more money says they don't need that kind of support at all, they think it's just seeding money from an airplane. That's an attitude. It is impossible to find out from such people where and when this money has been spent exactly because they do not even notice that the money has been added to them at all. But there are also people whose daily coping is very difficult. I think that every euro is very important to them, and this money will certainly be spent just to cope with life, every cent, every euro and now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U66	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U67	Thank you, Madam President. Good Margus! You talk a lot about the increase in income support and more support for families who really need it. Yes, it must be done, but it should be done more by the municipality. However, it is the task of the state to treat all children equally. My question is: why do we only start supporting our families and children when they are in difficulty? Is it not so that we should do our utmost to prevent them from getting into difficulties? Studies also confirm that if families are at risk of poverty after the birth of their children, these children will rather not be born because no one wants to harm their children, they do not want a situation where they cannot cope.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U68	Thank you, good Urve! We're talking about exactly the same thing. What is the task of the state? It is the task of the state to ensure and act to ensure that our people do not fall into poverty at all. If we look at these amounts, I am not sure that your draft too will ensure that a particular family does not fall into poverty. These benefits do not guarantee 100% that no family lives in poverty. If we look at the wider picture, it is not our job to develop a system so that everyone can live on state support, we never have the means to do so. Our task is to create an environment for people to work so that they can receive a decent salary for their work, with which they can raise their children, create a support system so that parents can first raise their children at home and then go to work and make sure that their children are as well cared for as they are when they are at home. This is what we are creating a stable and manageable environment for the family. I do not know that in any country there would be subsidies so large that only they could live. But, of course, we still have so much room for improvement in these support grants and services, not only in the case of financial support, but also in the case of services, that there is still work for several Riigikogu configurations. I absolutely agree with what you said that we must first help those who are in the most difficult situation. Today, as research confirms, it is families with three or more children. No matter how good their parents are, they still live on the poverty line and below. It's like this. Similarly, there is a need-based child benefit system, which you have ridiculed here, perhaps it is too harsh a word, at least one small attempt to help those children who really live well below that limit. The fact that the system still doesn't operate at 100%, it's only been in force for a few months and the sums of money aren't that big. We're gonna talk to you guys.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U69	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U70	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! When the Green Paper was discussed earlier, which will soon be completed again, you said that there had been talk about the need to increase universal support, but not about the need to triple it. Why don't you tell me how much you think universal child support should be increased right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U71	My position is, in fact, based on those specialists who have done a good job. We were not talking about the Green Paper before, but about the development plan for children and families. The Green Paper is a concrete analysis of the impact of child and family benefits and a complex plan of proposals that should come before us at the beginning of next year. These measures are complex. I cannot tell you what the amount should be that would make it possible to say that a very guaranteed result has been achieved, maybe it is 400, maybe it is 700 euros per month for every child. But you understand very well, Kajar, you are an economic man myself, I am not sure whether the Estonian state will reach that point. This will require a very fundamental decision if we start to pay such large sums of money for universal child support. That would be a very fundamental breakthrough. However, what I want to say, knowing our economic position, is that if we put more than EUR 100 million into this system, then there may not only have to be universal child subsidies for the first and the second children, but complex subsidies. I'm not smart enough to tell you exactly what they are right now. But you're on the right track, let's not fight each other!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U72	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U73	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, In my opinion, it is not true that EUR 19 is granted per child. If this allowance has been like this for ten years and we are taking down inflation, then it must be acknowledged that the real allowance is EUR 10.11 per child. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U74	Thank you. There is no way to argue with that. It is still 19.18 euros in nominal terms, but it will certainly have a much smaller effect than it did ten years ago. It's understandable. Indeed, money has become cheaper and prices have risen.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U75	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U76	I'd be a little upset with the waitress. We have in no way ridiculed the fact that children in families with material difficulties receive more support. We have ridiculed and consider it unprofessional how it is organised. This is a completely stupid, unprofessional way. We do not say a word in favour of parental pension; we criticise that because of this foolish solution, we will also pay parental pension to parents who have never even raised their children. As far as universal child benefit is concerned, it is their idea to partially cover the cost of raising a child. If they haven't moved anywhere for ten years, what happens to the idea, I ask you, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U77	Good questioner! As far as needs-based family support is concerned, as is right to say, not child support, I am sure that in time we will come to improving this system. The system has been implemented, but as we have seen in other systems, no matter what area, life makes its corrections. The Group of the Social Democratic Party made its amendments here, which were taken into account and made the whole operation more logical. But I'm not saying that the system is built perfectly. Life itself shows how we can make it better. As for the question, Eiki, your questions are always fundamental and very good. No matter what I say, I'm still in a difficult position. But what I want to say is that if we look at the whole system and various grants for children, we need to talk about the fact that, in these ten years, the municipalities across Estonia have also increased their grants very differently, according to their capacities. In this sense, we cannot say that for ten years everyone has been standing still. The state and municipalities, in cooperation, have still made increasingly significant decisions regarding children and families. What is the message? Of course, it is always possible to give a stronger message, and actions must also follow.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U78	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U79	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! My question concerns child support, true, not precisely in the context of this draft. But you answer so nicely to the questioners, don't humiliate or ridicule the questioner, and you've gone that way with your answers, not only will this bill stop. Child benefit is currently covered by income support. True, the need-based family allowance, the supplement that comes in, does not go there. It is said that the limit of coping increases and makes it easier for families. In fact, the income limit is increasing, but child benefit continues to be included in income support. The Social Democrats have also submitted drafts to this effect and have proposed that child support should not go into subsistence. Why is it not supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U80	Thank you. It was a pretty big fight we had together. All that was added to the need-based family allowance and added to the allowance from the third child of the family is not included in the income support. That's one step. Let's see where it goes next, see if the next steps are taken. This is indeed the case at the moment, and I do not think that the draft you have tabled has received support three times already.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U81	Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U82	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Here we were already talking about the declining purchasing power of this 19 euro. If we look at the prices of food and non-alcoholic beverages, the current EUR 19 equals about EUR 12 on its purchasing power ten years ago or its equivalent in kroons. You said there was a need to increase this support, but there are no options. If we look at the increase in the volume of the Estonian budget, ten years ago, the 2004 budget was adopted in this Chamber, which was about 46.6 billion kroons, or just over three billion euros. We are now discussing a budget of around EUR 8 billion. If you say that it is necessary, but there are no options, how will you assess whether, given budget growth, the lack of opportunities is objective or rather subjective and results from the priorities set by the government, which are different from the growth of child support?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U83	Please, Mr Sven Mikser, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U84	Thank you. If you go to this issue at all, how big the budget was ten years ago and how much it is now, there are two aspects. Today, we also have in our budget all the European Union subsidies that we cannot use to cover current expenditure in this form. The second thing is that if we look at the social sphere as a whole, I cannot tell by heart how much it has increased, but it has been bigger every year than last year and will be bigger next year. The question is simply whether the universal child allowance for the first and the second child should have been increased during this ten-year period. You, too, have had this responsibility over the past ten years. I know there have certainly been disputes, but this decision has not been made. At the same time, other measures have been taken over this ten-year period. After all, parental benefit is also the money that goes on to raise children, as well as all the other things I have read here. The whole child and family policy has not been forgotten in this decade. I continue to believe that more money should be foreseen for child and family policy than is currently the case in the state budget, also in proportion. We just have to be sure what exactly we use the next quantitative financial leap for.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U85	Thank you. We know that if parental benefits are not included in family benefits, the amount of family benefits in the increase in the social budget has been rather negative. Since the politicians of the government coalition have dealt with parental benefit as part of family benefits as needed, once not, would you say a single, clear position of the government coalition as to whether parental benefit is regarded as family benefits or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U86	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U87	Parental benefit is seen as financial resources, which are certainly among the measures supporting children's upbringing and families.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U88	Thank you, Madam President. I come back to parliamentarianism. You said so much about the position of the Government of the Republic that they thought so, we think so here. You're the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, member of the Coalition Party. If the government gives the opinion that the draft is not appropriate because it is not reflected in the budget strategy, but we know that the budget strategy is a government document and is only being shown to Parliament, we do not have the opportunity to change it, does that actually mean that no draft can come from the government that could fundamentally change the budgetary strategy, so that Parliament does not have the opportunity to make any other proposals than that contained in the government document? How will Parliamentaryism remain in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U89	Thank you, good Neeme! I have a recommendation for the future: if the Sots may regain power and you are not a minister, you are a member of Parliament, then maintain the ability to think for yourself, as you now do. Not everything that comes from the government to Parliament may always remain that way. Nor did the need-based family benefit system remain the way it came from the government. We worked hard on this here, we have precisely reached agreements in Parliament that we will increase universal child support for third and more children and that all the additional things will be excluded from the calculation of income support. This is all we did in this Parliament with you, it was not the only coalition or only the opposition would have done. That is the role of Parliament. As far as budgetary discussions are concerned, you know very well that Parliament cannot increase revenue and expenditure without the consent of the government. Therefore, with this draft and the volumes that have been given, we cannot act arbitrarily on these forecasts, we must remain within some framework. But Parliament is free in its decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U90	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U91	Thank you very much. When the Chairman of the Social Committee meets with the chairmen of the Social Committees of the other national parliaments of the European Union and talks about child allowances, what face do they face, especially the chairmen of the Social Committees of the countries north and west of us, will accept the information that we will receive only EUR 19 in child support from the family?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U92	Thank you. Children's benefits are not often spoken of. These committees are quite different, a universal Commission such as ours, which includes health insurance, health care, pension systems, labour market measures, all kinds of benefits for children and families, especially not elsewhere. Very often there are separate labour ministers, labour committees, etc. In our case, we wonder how we can maintain such a powerful parental benefit system at our standard of living. This is rather a question, because countries that are quite advanced and have a higher standard of living than us do not maintain such a system. Rather, it has been asked why we made such a choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U93	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U94	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to discuss a little more about parliamentaryism and the relationship between the government and Parliament. You said we couldn't make random decisions and we had to stay in some kind of frame. Does this mean that, for Parliament, the framework will be presented by the government with its budgetary strategy? I have had this feeling that Parliament is giving the framework to the government, but from this approach it is as if the government is giving the framework to Parliament. How strong is the government's argument that the law cannot be passed because this expenditure is not reflected in the budget strategy? In theory, this is not a strong argument. This is a short-term government document that Parliament should be able to frame or amend. How do you rate that argument?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U95	Thank you. When you listened to my answer in detail, I specifically said that if the government has presented us with a draft budget, we must remain within the scope of this volume, but we can do our business within the budget. That's the debate we're going to have next week and the next week, at least on the basis of my information. But when we talk about the budgetary strategy, Parliament can really make its own decisions here for every debate on a specific budget, and these are for the government to implement.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U96	Please, colleague Sven Mikser, what is the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U97	I have a procedural question. Would the Speaker of Parliament assure us that Parliament will be able to increase the budget, that if it decides to increase the revenue side of the budget with an amendment, it will be able to do so in accordance with the basic budget law? The Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee is trying to mislead us here by misinterpreting the basic budget law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U98	The Speaker of Parliament is sitting and listening to this debate now, but we will certainly also come to the budget debate. Of course, we need to know what the country's wallet is, we know how much of this country's wallet has already been distributed, and we know our options, what we can do. But discussions on the state budget are still ahead of us. I think that we could come back to the bill we are discussing, rather than discussing the subject so widely. I do not believe that these issues were discussed at this level in the Committee on Social Affairs. We'll come back to this bill. Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U99	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask Margus Tsahkna a more specific question. Did I understand you correctly that when you have met your colleagues in the 27 Member States, they have admired our EUR 19 child support?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U100	As the word of the President of the Riigikogu is very important to me, I say that we did not really discuss it. And you got it all wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U101	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Tsahkna. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask my colleague, Heljo Pikhof, to speak as a representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I repeat, what is the purpose of the State Family Benefits Act? The purpose of family allowances is to ensure that all families with children receive part of the cost of caring for, raising and studying their children. The question arises as to whether this EUR 19 really is the amount by which we partially reimburse all these costs. All children are equal and have the right to equal treatment. Now, from universal family benefits. The universal family benefit system supports the principle that every child is valuable, reduces inequalities and prevents child labelling. If there was talk here that child support could not be tripled now and that there would be white books, green books, etc., then I would say that it would be more like turning eyes and delaying things, not wanting to do it. We have a development plan for children and families until 2020 and it has made clear what the goals we need to move towards are. Stakeholders were involved in the development of children's and families' development plans, it was done very thoroughly, it has been done very well and it has also been approved by the government. Speaking from here on, Margus Tsahkna said very nicely that the Social Democrats have taken a step in the right direction. Our request to him is for him to take one step against us, so we can do the deed and triple child support for the first and second children. If we go on to 2015, it's very nice that he saw us in government together, but I think we should start by doing things. We want to see if the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance are capable of action. I should, in some way, regret: I am very sorry that the speech of the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee has become somewhat auditory-based and needs-based. Actually, I'd expect action, not just words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-07_U103	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. However, since the lead committee has proposed to reject the draft 488 at first reading, we need to vote this proposal through. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please vote! 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, with 31 abstentions. The proposal was supported and draft law 488 has fallen out of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted our agenda. Good luck! Closure of the sitting at 11.52 a.m.
