ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the 15th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now, ladies and gentlemen, there is an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Let's start with the representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching today a draft law amending the Public Health Act and the State Fees Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas when processing this bill. Secondly, the Government of the Republic will submit a draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali'. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Defence, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this draft decision in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U4	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Alliance of Democrats, I am discussing the question to the Minister of Social Affairs about youth unemployment. On 15 May, Statistics Estonia published data showing that youth unemployment has risen to 10.8%, which is 0.9% higher than in the first quarter. The unemployment rate of 15-24-year-olds was several times higher than that of older people. Over half of the 7 000 unemployed in the quarter were under 25 years old. Among those under the age of 25, it was estimated that 51000 people were employed and 16,000 were unemployed. The situation of youth unemployment is worrying and we would like to hear whether the Ministry of Social Affairs and the government have planned new steps to tackle the problem. As a result, we are going to ask the Minister of Social Affairs six questions, signed by 16 MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to accept them within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall forward it to the addressee immediately. Here's the news. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has taken proceedings in the Estonian Central Party faction. A draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, launched on 15 May 2004, and appointed it as the lead committee of the Social Affairs Committee. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the following drafts to the European Union Affairs Committee submitted on 16 May by the Government of the Republic. Firstly, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, pupil exchange, paid and unpaid traineeships, voluntary service and au pairing. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to give an opinion on the positions and draft of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. tho 6 June at 4 p.m. Secondly, a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks and a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Regulation (EC) No 207/2009 on the Community trade mark. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Legal Affairs Committee and the Economic Affairs Committee to give an opinion on the positions and draft of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. tho 6 June at 4 p.m. Thirdly, a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation and Training (Europol) and repealing Decisions 2009/371/JHA and 2005/681/JHA and a Communication from the European Commission to the European Parliament, the Council of Europe, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions establishing a European Law Enforcement Training Plan. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to give an opinion on the positions and draft of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. tho 6 June at 4 p.m. Fourthly, the Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded to the Committee on Foreign Affairs the Government of the Republic. a Estonia's views on the mandate to be given to the European Commission on 16 May, under which the Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the United States of America will be negotiated. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed a Committee on European Union Affairs to give an opinion on the positions and draft of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. a 4 June at 4 p.m. The heirs withdrew the question of the ownership of archeological findings of No 319, which had been put to Rein Lang, Minister of Culture. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14. Ladies and gentlemen, let us go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is on your desks, so I'll put it to the vote. Please vote! 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U6	Let us go to today's agenda, perhaps to answer questions. The first is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, Aivar Riisalu, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Lauri Laasi, Enn Esemaa, Eldar Efendijev, Tarmo Tamme, Olga Sõtnik, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi and Esther Tuiksoo on 15 April (No 321). My colleague Kadri Simson of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U7	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce the questioning of the members of the Riigikogu to Jaan Männik, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. We all know that during the coming month we will be able to hear about the speech chair of the Riigikogu as well as the presentation by the Governor of Eesti Pank, but from the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank we requested more detailed information about the role of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank is the supervisory body of Eesti Pank, whose competence also includes the distribution of Eesti Pank's profits in accordance with the Act and the approved profit distribution strategy of the Supervisory Board. In 2011, Eesti Pank made a profit of 22.7 million euros, of which the Bank's Supervisory Board decided to devote three quarters to central bank reserves and a quarter, or 5.7 million euros, to the 2013 state budget. This inquiry was handed down on 15 April. After that, we know, there has been a lively debate about how much Eesti Pank should give to the state budget about its profits. On 21 February, the Governing Council of the European Central Bank approved the audited financial report of the Central Bank for 2012, according to which the European Central Bank's profit was above EUR 2.1 billion last year. Interest income, which amounted to EUR 2.3 billion, contributed significantly to profits. 1.1 billion of it accounted for net interest income on securities purchased under the securities markets programme. Of this, EUR 555 million was received from Greek bonds purchased by the European Central Bank under the securities market programme. Eesti Pank is known to be independent, but the finance ministers of the Eurogroup decided that interest on bonds would be repaid to Greece. So much for introduction. We asked four questions to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, which are as follows: First, 'The audited annual financial report of the European Central Bank for 2012 allows us to expect a considerable profit from Eesti Pank this year. How do you assess the results of Eesti Pank in 2012? ' The second question relates to the fact that in 2012 the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank wanted the entire profit of the Bank to be placed in the reserve fund in 2011, but the request of the Minister of Finance was received and part of the profit was, however, given to the State's stabilisation reserve. Is there a known government pressure this year in relation to the distribution of Eesti Pank's profits? And since we all know that Mr Jaan Männik is about to resign as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, we would like to hear his assessment of his term of office. We are also interested in the counsel he gives his offspring in this capacity. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U8	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. And now I would like to ask Jaan Männiku, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U9	Dear fellow fighters, This is a new experience for me to tell members of the Riigikogu that way. It is a pleasure and a great honor to stand before you here. I sum up the answer to these questions in such a way that Eesti Pank appreciates the results. The aim of Eesti Pank is not to make the maximum profit, the aim of the bank is to ensure price stability, and that is what we are doing together with the European Central Bank. We are part of the European Central Bank. Harmonisation of monetary policy leads to the distribution of revenue, the allocation of costs and the allocation of risks. Estonia's share is 0.26%. The Eurosystem's credit risks are such that EUR 852 billion has been lent to commercial banks and EUR 203 billion has been purchased. This is the big risk for Eesti Pank, as for all other euro countries. I was asked how I appreciated the work of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. Unfortunately, in answering this, I have to admit that, on one point, I am very critical of our work, and that is confidence. In an institution such as Eesti Pank, trust must prevail. There must be confidence in the council meetings, there must be confidence in the sense that if we say that nothing is leaking out of here, it will not leak. We have discussed the issue of trust in three or four Council meetings, mainly in the context that there is always an item on the agenda in which Ardo Hansson will explain to us what has happened in Frankfurt. What has happened in Frankfurt is partly confidential, there is no very clear limit to what you can and cannot disclose. This will be decided by the President of the Bank as he sees fit. But if the President of the Bank believes or suspects that what is being said at a meeting of the Supervisory Board can also get to the press, it is very bad. What's happened to me is a very small detail that doesn't make sense to talk about any more. But if, for example, there is a leak that has been talked about around the table in Frankfurt and that should not leak, then this is a much more serious issue. When I hand over my job to Mart Laar, I'm gonna meet Mart Laar and tell him that you're putting together a new council, and the most important thing in this situation is that you find the people you trust as members of the bank board. But I'm coming back to the positives now. As regards the distribution of profits, it does not differ very much from the distribution of the company's profits. In the company, the chairman of the board of directors makes a proposal to the board, the board approves it, and then it goes to the shareholders' general meeting to decide once and for all. In Eesti Pank, this process is two-stage, not three-step. The Executive Board of Eesti Pank makes a proposal to the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board either approves it or does not approve it. It is not the case that the solution is proposed by the Council, the solution is proposed by the Governing Board. The Management Board told the Council that our reserves are quite small compared to the size of the Estonian economy and compared to many other European countries. We should build up a lot of reserves, and it'll take 15 to 20 years before we reach some acceptable level. That was why the board didn't want to pay out much. As far as I know, the Minister of Finance has not spoken to any member of the Council, perhaps one or two, I do not know. But I know he talked to the president of the bank. The question here was whether Eesti Pank or the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank was under pressure. I wouldn't use the word "pressurize." I would say that this issue has been discussed and ended with disagreements between the President of the Bank and the Minister of Finance had different views. The President of the Bank made his proposal to the Governing Council and the Governing Council approved this proposal by 7 votes to 1. I was also asked whether the chairman of the bank's supervisory board should be political or non-political. I think the important question is whether the bank's management, the President and the Vice-President are political or non-political persons. Whether it is the chairman of the bank's supervisory board is, in my opinion, a much less important issue. I believe that some kind of bridge to this hall must be on one of the central banks, and that's why we have the people in this hall on the bank board. I support the principle that the members of the Riigikogu are also on the Supervisory Board of the Bank. Whether the chairman is or is not a political person, I do not think this is a very important issue. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip gave an interview on April 26th of the "Prime Minister's Hour" in Vikerraadio, where I think he analysed very well the role of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. It was a very good analysis and I support what Prime Minister Ansip said there, but I think we should have taken one more step. The Prime Minister said that the role of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank is much more limited than the role of the Supervisory Board of one company, and so it is. We do not approve the budget, we do not approve the action plan, we take note. And there are other restrictions. I myself have been talking about spending savings in Eesti Pank for five years. I have said that Eesti Pank, as a system, is too expensive for the Estonian state and the people. It could be seriously discussed, but it cannot be initiated by Eesti Pank, even by the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, whether this system is too expensive. Let us compare what we do with what this thing costs! But this debate must be initiated somewhere else. How do I finally appreciate the work of Eesti Pank, especially the work of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank? When work has been done for a long time, you will see that in almost every structure there will sooner or later be a contradiction between reformers and administrators. There are people who say we need to make changes, that it is not well and that it is not well and that it is not, and there are people who urge us not to rush, let us not go too fast. I have worked for more than 40 years, respected fellow fighters, and what I encountered in the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank was nothing new. We also had a situation where some people wanted to give gas rather than slow down some. Gas providers remained on top of Eesti Pank. However, this is not always the case, sometimes the administrators prevail. But it pleased me that the forces in Eesti Pank who wanted to reform the bank remained just as well. If I have done this work myself, I have had two very important principles. One of them is equal treatment. I don't know who's gonna ask me what this publication is or who's a politician who wants to meet me. I regard political parties, whether they are represented in the Riigikogu or not, in the same way. When I get out of here, I'll give an interview to Tallinn Television. They wanted it, and I told them I'd give it to them. If anyone else asks for an interview, I'll give it to them. That has been one principle. My second principle has been that I have done what I myself have considered to be right. It's led me. I know that there is another view on this issue, but I have taken this step forward and done what I myself have considered to be right. For me, being chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has been a major challenge. I took office three months before Lehman Brothers went bankrupt. And the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers in September 2008 is considered the beginning of the global economic crisis. I was also a collaborator when the euro came to Estonia. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You elected and approved me for this post five years ago. I thank you for your trust! I have had a very interesting challenge in Estonian society and I am glad that this happened five years ago. I hope that we can say about Mart Laar in a few years' time that he has developed Eesti Pank and that in a few years' time, Eesti Pank will be better than it is now that I am leaving it. And I tell you, honourable Members of the Riigikogu, that it is time for me to move forward, new challenges await. Thank you and I am ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U10	Thank you very much, Mr Männik, for your answers. You have a lot of questions, too. Let's start with my colleague, Kadri Samson.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U11	Dear Jaan Männik! Eesti Pank is an institution that operates according to the Eesti Pank Act. Paragraph 30 of the Eesti Pank Act states how the bank's profits are distributed. There is a point after the point that the funds are prioritised to increase the annual profits of the core capital, then to replenish the reserve capital, and then the Bank's Supervisory Board has the possibility to direct part of the profits to the formation and improvement of the foundations and trust funds, and the remaining part goes to the state budget. However, our Minister of Finance considers that Eesti Pank should definitely transfer 25% of its profits to the state budget each year. That's not what the law says. The Minister also argued that as the repayable portion of Greek interest has not been added to this 25%, Eesti Pank has violated the gentlemen's agreement. Did Jürgen Ligi agree with Eesti Pank that interest will be repaid to Greece before he went to agree with the European finance ministers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U12	I believe that the Minister of Finance does not need to coordinate this with Eesti Pank. I don't know, if he's coordinating it, he's doing it with the bank management, he hasn't talked to me. The point is that Eesti Pank has a long-term strategy, which is confirmed every year. For the five years that I have been involved with Eesti Pank, this has been the case: up to 25% of the net profit can be distributed so that it goes to the Treasury, and 75% goes to reserves. The Council first confirms this strategy each year and then decides on the distribution of profits on an annual basis. As far as I know, no more than 25% has been distributed in any year. I do not mind that the Minister of Finance has a different view of how much money should be distributed. He may have a different understanding, but the bank's board decided to support the bank's board's proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U13	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U14	Honourable Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank! You have made the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, as well as the Bank, quite open outside, and you have also been an open communicator yourself. One recommendation to the next Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank already sounded in your presentation today, which concerned the composition of the Supervisory Board. But my question to you is what you did not do in this position, what you would recommend to the next Chairman of the Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U15	What I did not do is that for five years I talked a lot about cost efficiency in Eesti Pank, but I have to admit that more could have happened in this area than has happened so far. That's what I'm gonna talk to Mart Laar about for a long time now. Whether he's going this way or not, he's gonna bring it up, I don't know. But I believe that if we want Estonia to develop and become richer, we need effective public institutions. I am sure that Eesti Pank has room for improvement. I have also said that one of the major issues that should be addressed is to review the organisational relationship between the Financial Supervision Authority and Eesti Pank. I feel like we're doing a double job. We are doing economic analysis at Eesti Pank, we are doing economic analysis at the Ministry of Finance, all commercial banks are doing all kinds of analyses. They keep doing tests. But we are not such a big and rich country in my opinion that we would be wise to do them everywhere. There's even a question of whether we're buying these analyses from somewhere. I can say one thing: often these tests do not hold water for more than two or three months, then we have to make new ones again. What happened the last time? New figures came that the Estonian economy has fallen by 1% compared to the last quarter last year and increased by 1% compared to the first quarter a year ago. This is not how we predicted even one month ago! These are such major structural issues, but somewhere in our system there should be the will to make the public sector more effective, but I have not seen much of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U16	Please, colleague Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U17	I have one question that comes from your speech here. I thought I'd give you a choice between three options. What's worse? Is it when the chairman of the bank board gossips about individual bank employees in the board and hopes to involve the board members in his personal revenge action? Or that such gossip and persecution are leaking into the media? Or that the Chairman of the Board of the Bank comes before the Riigikogu after that and starts to imply that some secret decisions made in Frankfurt have leaked into the media, which has never happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U18	In my opinion, there was such an understanding in the Council that this was a closed meeting from which what was said there should not have leaked into the press. And the fact that this leak occurred led to three or four debates at the Council meeting on whether we can now talk about everything or whether we have to be afraid that it is leaking somewhere. I would not comment on emotional assessments such as harassment, revenge, etc. Let's get down to business! We are talking about whether or not information can go to the press at a closed Council meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U19	Please, Mr Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U20	Honourable Chairman! Kadri Samson and I agree on most things. He's worried about teachers, doctors' salaries, etc. Our only difference is that he is worried about Greek teachers, but I am thinking about Estonian pensioners. It's the only difference. In this respect, I come back to trust and honor. This whole Greek thing was voted with a very large crunch in this Chamber and there were very few Greek 'aid package' voters on this side. I have the feeling that there would have been more voters than it would have been clear that all the money in Greece would go back there. In other words, Estonia's contribution to Greece is not only a source of money, it is fundamentalally humorous. Now I wonder if it was a gentleman's agreement or not. And why did the Riigikogu not know that everything that goes to Greece will remain there forever?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U21	In these agreements you are talking about, the Minister of Finance has been the Minister of Finance, and in some other agreements, the Governor of Eesti Pank. The Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has not spoken in making these decisions or concluding agreements. We don't make Frankfurt trips, we've been there once, and as the Prime Minister said, it was more of a tour than anything else. The Bank's Supervisory Board has not concluded any arrangements. However, when I say my personal position, I very much support the fact that we are members of the euro area. I've been supporting it all along, for years. I think that we should continue to be part of it. And if you're in one of those groups with a lot of countries, then it's always like you have to basically decide whether or not you're doing everything. If you do everything you can, it should be taken into account that in some circumstances, some money may have to be paid. However, the fundamental question is whether or not we are in the euro area. I think we should be there. The Latvians want to be too.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U22	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U23	First of all, I will tell my colleague, Mr Gräzini, that, if we decide by the votes in this Chamber, it is the Centre Party that has put the Estonian teacher and pensioner at the forefront and compared their lives in other countries. But the honorable Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank! First of all, I am very sorry that you were not given the opportunity to be Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank for your second term of office, because I think you have held this office with great dignity. However, my question concerns a recent statement, namely whether Eesti Pank needs a supervisory board at all. How do you see the structure of Eesti Pank without the Supervisory Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U24	There are central banks in Europe that do not have a Governing Council. One very good example is the German central bank. Since I consider Germany to be an important country, two years ago I wanted to invite the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the German Central Bank to visit Estonia and I began to look into the matter online. I discovered that the organisational structure of their central bank was such that they did not have a council. I'll tell you what the four important tasks we have. The first two, which I mention, have received a great deal of attention in the last two years. We propose to the President who will be the next Governor of Eesti Pank. After all, a great deal of controversy arose around it, but it is done once every seven years. We also confirm the vice presidents. The fact that they weren't confirmed here two years ago also attracted a lot of attention. But it's done once every five years. Thirdly, the distribution of profits, where the proposal of the bank's management is often accepted. This is done once a year. And fourthly, the annual report is confirmed. It pays the board members a gross salary of EUR 105000 per year. I have drawn attention to the question of whether what the bank's supervisory board is doing and responsible for is in proportion to what it will cost the country. This issue cannot be discussed by Eesti Pank; this issue cannot be discussed by the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank; it must be initiated elsewhere. In my opinion, what the Board of Eesti Pank is doing, and what it is going to cost, is not proportional. Of course, the work he does has to be done, but there are other ways to do it. The Germans, for example, have arranged it differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U25	Please, colleague Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U26	Honourable Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank! I have a question about the return of Greek interest. This is certainly not a normal situation, and these are not the usual decisions that have been made. I have this question: if the issue of Greek interest had not been raised, i.e. if the so-called Eurosystem had not transferred such a dedicated amount to Eesti Pank, would you have decided to transfer 25% of the profits to the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U27	That's not my decision alone, is it? We have an eight-member council, and I'm one of eight members. What we would have decided in such a situation, I am unfortunately indebted to you for that answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U28	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U29	Dear Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, As far as I am concerned, no survey has so far shown that the Latvian people want to enter the euro zone, but the Latvian Government does want to get there. But here's my question. How often have you met Secretary of Finance Jürgen Ligi, and when was your last meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U30	My last encounters with him were September 2011. Then, last year, when we were talking about the distribution of profits, it was in April, I called him twice, and we talked for about ten minutes. But in general, we've said hello to each other here and there, and that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U31	Please, Mr Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U32	Mr. Männik! In your presentation you mentioned several times that it is expensive to keep Eesti Pank in this form. You also indicated that it should be more cost-effective. I fully agree with this, especially now that Eesti Pank has become more of a branch office of the European Central Bank under the conditions of the single currency. You stopped at the one who should ensure greater cost-effectiveness, i.e. reduce the cost of the system. Who is this organ supposed to be? Where should the initiative come from? Aren't the composition of Eesti Pank's employees, salaries, priorities to be assessed and decided by the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank? Can't the Council put them on? Eesti Pank is an autonomous institution and no one on the side can come to do this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U33	The Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank currently sets four salaries. These are the salaries of the President of the Bank, the two Vice-Presidents and the Internal Auditor. All other salaries are determined by the bank's management. It is not the same thing in the company: the board does not fire or lay off people; it is the executive. I have run Estonia's largest company, Eesti Telekom for seven years and I know these things. The Council cannot fire anyone, and this is also the case in Eesti Pank. For example, if we find that there are too many people in Eesti Pank, this does not really fall within the competence of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. The Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank does not take any people into office and it does not fire any people. This responsibility shall be borne by the management.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U34	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U35	Head of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank! In the strategic development plan of Eesti Pank for 2011-2013, the Bank's vision is that Eesti Pank is an effective and modern central bank that is actively contributing to the economic development of the Eurosystem and Estonia. I would say that the Eurosystem and Estonia's economic development are not uniquely synergistic things; there are certainly contradictions. So it's not all easy. How do you think the bank has accomplished this task?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U36	With this development plan, as I mentioned briefly before, is that when the Supervisory Board approves the business plan in one company, the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank takes note of the development plan. I heard the president of the bank is coming here to tell you in a little while. This question should be put to him because we have not confirmed this development plan at all. We have only taken note of what the board has proposed to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U37	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U38	Chairman of the board of directors of a good bank! My question also concerns the return on Greek bonds and its possible return to Greece. As far as you know, has this matter been discussed in the Governing Council of the European Central Bank, where the governors of all banks are represented alongside the members of the Executive Board? And do you think that politicians, such as finance ministers, are deciding on the use of the European Central Bank's and national central banks' revenues, in line with the principle of bank independence?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U39	Eesti Pank is an independent organisation and the main task of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank is to monitor the activities of Eesti Pank as a whole. I've been discussing this with Ardo Hansson. According to his understanding, decisions on the repayment of Greek bonds were made by European finance ministers. If he comes here in a while, you can ask him. In my opinion, his position is that he does not bear much responsibility for these decisions. We have two people, but this is my subjective assessment, which is very much involved in European finance matters, which is the Governor of Eesti Pank and the Minister of Finance. But they deal with different things and these Greek bonds are dealt with by the Minister of Finance rather than by the President of the Bank.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U40	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U41	Head of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank! I believe that the Bank's Supervisory Board will have its term of office in about a year's time and that the Governor of the Bank's Supervisory Board will have a fairly unlimited power to form a board of directors. In view of the changes concerning the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, are we now at risk of the Bank's Supervisory Board becoming very political? Who would you recommend being appointed to the bank board?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U42	If I remember correctly, the mandate of this Council will end on 17 February next year. These seven members are appointed in this Chamber by a single vote, all seven at the same time, on the proposal of Mart Laar, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Bank. I'm sure I'll talk to Mart Laar, and I'll talk to him for a long time. But I can tell you what I suggest. It is such a large council that there must be a member of the lawyer. Today it is Professor of Law at the University of Tartu, Irene Kull. I personally believe that about half of the members of the council should come from this hall. It's a long story to talk about, but if the central bank doesn't have any contact with politics, then we're gonna be hanging in the air at Eesti Pank. Then we'd be so independent that we wouldn't exactly have any contact anywhere. After all, the country is run by politicians. In Finland, all members of the Council are politicians, in Sweden almost as well. I myself believe that the system that we have developed in Estonia is better than that of Finland and Sweden. We have also received non-political economics experts in the Council, and I think its impact has been very good. In Estonia, we have a much wider competence than Finland and Sweden. We do not only have politicians in the Council, we also have professors of economics, we have professors of law, etc. I think, as I said earlier, apart from one exception, this Council has worked very well, this composition has been very good. I'll discuss it with Mart Laar, but I think the solution is that half of the politicians and half of the apolitical people have been very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U43	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U44	Dear Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, I will continue with the question of Mr Rait Marust. He wondered where the initiative should start in the reorganisation of Eesti Pank. You replied that the Board of Governors of the Bank would approve the salaries of the four directors. However, does the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank not approve the entire structure of Eesti Pank and the general payroll fund? If there is an opinion that the structure is overexploited or that some functions are redundant, where should this initiative come from? Wasn't it from the bank board?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U45	The answer is that we do not approve the payroll. We take note of the budget. This is a big difference when comparing a bank with one company. You can all read this in the Eesti Pank Act and the Statute, especially in the Act. We do not approve the bank's budget and we do not endorse the bank's agenda. However, how much money the bank saves is left to the board of directors.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U46	Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U47	Head of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank! I'm going to continue on the subject that, as I understand it, you had a big problem after five years of work. It's that somehow we should have saved up. Can you tell me how much it would be possible to reduce the annual cost in Eesti Pank?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U48	You will understand that if I have worked in the private sector almost all my life, that is the kind of questions I have been dealing with for 40 years and more. That's how long my career in this sector has been going on. How much money can you save? My experience is that, in this context, we need to start talking not primarily about people and money, but about action. We have the Museum of Eesti Pank. Do we need it or not? That's the way to approach it. We are doing statistics at Eesti Pank and Statistics Estonia is also doing statistics. Perhaps we could move Eesti Pank to Statistics Estonia for statistical production. Why are we doing this in two places? If you're trying to save expenses, there's two basic ways. One is that you will stop some activities, as I have brought to the Museum of Eesti Pank, for example. I'm not saying we should shut it down, but it could be arranged differently. In my opinion, the Museum of Eesti Pank could belong to a museum other than one part of it. That's one way. Another possibility is that if there are six people in the Human Resources Department of Eesti Pank, let's say, you go there and say that you have to do this job with three people. So these two possibilities are that you're going to stop doing some things at all, and you're going to tell some people that you're going to have to deal with fewer people. I have to say that Ardo Hansson is dealing with these issues. Ask him when he gets here. But the Council has no way of dealing with such issues. Where do I want to go with what I'm saying? I very much support the views of Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, which he spoke about in Vikerradio on 26 April. He said that the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has considerably more limited powers and tasks than the supervisory boards of companies. I was the leader of Estonian Telekom for seven years. I'm not saying it was fear, but I was always aware that the chairman of the council could come to my office and announce that in a week's time another man would be working here as chairman of the board. That's what happened to Estonian Air a little over six months ago. That was all the seven years I worked there. This is not the case in Eesti Pank. If you're supposed to be there for seven years, you're gonna be there for seven years and you're gonna have to kill someone or steal money or I don't know what to do to start discussing whether you can put another man in his place. This is a very large difference between the company and Eesti Pank. And as you have now understood, the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank does not have as much responsibility and tasks as you have believed. That's right. Read the Law of Eesti Pank; it has everything in black and white that the bank has to bear.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U49	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U50	Dear Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, You have spoken on several occasions today about cost savings and, as an example, you have highlighted a number of economic analyses. At the same time, at the end of the boom and at the beginning of the crisis, quite a lot of criticism was made that Eesti Pank did not warn with sufficient clarity what was coming. But if you had relied on somebody else's economic analyses at the time, maybe you bought them, the criticism might have been even harder. Aren't you afraid that if Eesti Pank stops carrying out analyses, the role of Eesti Pank as a managing body in the financial system will decrease?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U51	I did not mean that we should complete the economic analyses at Eesti Pank. I rather mean that we are doing analyses at Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Finance and they say that it is very good if we have competition and we can compare them. But it all costs money. Perhaps we need to ask whether we are so rich that we can carry out analyses in both Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Finance, and we also carry out all kinds of economic analyses in commercial banks. As far as the crisis is concerned, my understanding is that there are a lot of competent economists and other economic experts in Eesti Pank who are doing very good analyses, but then they missed. It's true. But the German central bank, as well as the Swedish central bank and Finland, also missed. Most central banks missed their analyses when the global economic crisis began. I am technically educated, and in this area it is more difficult to predict the functioning of unstable systems than the functioning of stable systems. We got into an unstable situation, and then it's very difficult to make projections.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U52	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U53	Dear waitress, Before, there was a question that you missed during your term of office. Now we are talking about the fact that the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank does not have very much powers compared to companies, for example. The Eesti Pank Act says that the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank takes decisions and makes statements. Please tell us what the most important decisions and statements were made during your term of office by the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U54	These statements have been based on how I myself have interpreted the role of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. The most important role of the Council is, in my opinion, that it oversees the activities of Eesti Pank. I have made statements about why Eesti Pank has Maardu Manor and why the bank has some kind of training centre in Saaremaa. What's the bank gonna do with it? As far as I've gotten, I've made these kind of statements. As Chairman of the Council, I have the right to do these, and I have done quite a few of them. The most important decisions we have made have been linked to the election of the President of the Bank, the approval of the Vice-Presidents and the distribution of profits. The distribution of profits is decided, it is not a statement of any kind. We have also confirmed the annual reports. That's all I've been talking about. In the election of the President, it is the case that at least five of the eight members must support one candidate whose President must approve. At the same time, it can be said that it is not directly our decision, it is the President who will make the decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U55	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U56	Honourable Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank! There has been much discussion here on the issue of the competence, importance and decision-making powers of the Council. My question is: do you think it would be necessary to amend or supplement the law of Eesti Pank? At the same time, I would certainly like to say a few words here to protect the museum of Eesti Pank and to recognise its employees. These people are doing an excellent job, and everyone who has been to this museum is only talking about a visit in a superlative way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U57	As far as the museum is concerned, I just made it one example. The Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank cannot decide whether the museum is needed or not, it is decided by the bank's management. With regard to this museum, I would like to point out that the Minister of Culture or Mart Laar has written somewhere that there are too many museums in Estonia. Perhaps we should also think that all of this costs money. The Museum of Eesti Pank also pays money. The question is, can it be organized in such a way that it does not cost so much? But now I forgot what your question was. I'm sorry! Changing the law, huh? The amendment of the law is that if it were the most drastic proposal that we would wind up the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, it would require a decision in this Chamber. Who could initiate this? I believe the initiative could be born somewhere in the Ministry of Finance. Eesti Pank or the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank cannot begin to discuss whether or not the Supervisory Board should be wound up. It has to be done somewhere else in society. I'm gonna make it look like a chance. I am not saying that we have to wind up the Council, but that is what I have said and say again that, when we look at what this Council is doing and how much it costs, I do not think it is proportional.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U58	Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U59	Dear Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, It's been a long and interesting conversation. My question is motivated by the fact that the most important tasks of Eesti Pank are to coordinate the candidacy of the President of the Bank and to appoint the Vice-Presidents. When discussing these important actions with candidates, have they also been asked how they think costs could be saved, and do they even consider it necessary to do so? And if, in favour of this, they have been appointed and the Bank's Council has had a view that costs should be saved, have these people not complied with the agreements if this has not been done?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U60	Yes, there have been such negotiations with candidates. The archives of Eesti Pank should contain all documents that reflect candidates' visions. There has also been talk of cost savings. Ardo Hansson's working on it. Where he's come from, you have to ask him. Maybe the most important thing is that we start the debate. No one disputes that this museum is doing a good job. No one disputes that very good economic analyses are being carried out at Eesti Pank, but all of this costs money. Is there any way that the Museum of Eesti Pank can be connected to another museum to save money, that is the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U61	Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U62	Dear Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Bank, Listening to these questions and answers, you have the impression that you have personally been embarrassed all these years to accept a salary for running the Council, because there has been so little work. Maybe the impression is wrong. But isn't the proposal to change the bank's board, maybe it has nothing to do with what we've appointed here as the next bank's board of directors? Does it have anything to do with it or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U63	As for how much work has been done there and what it's paid, I want to tell you so much that when I went to that bank, I kind of freaked out. That the Chairman of the Supervisory Board has a professional car and a driver, although his main task is to chair eight supervisory meetings a year. I've been to the bank a lot myself. The reason is that when I started doing this job, I saw that the whole structure needed reform. In this case, we need to think very carefully and discuss with people of all kinds how to reform it. We have all talked about openness here, we have talked about non-politicalism, we have talked about other things. When I went to the bank, I reduced my salary by one third. It's all forgotten now, but it was. I cut my salary by one third because I found it incredible if you get that kind of pay for that kind of work. I accept all these speculations about why I have such a view that I now want to hit someone or something. There's always speculation like that. However, I dare you to repeat that I have worked almost my entire life in the private sector, including a great deal abroad, I have lived abroad for 47 years, and I would say that the private sector is a much more brutal environment than I have experienced in Eesti Pank. It's far more brutal! As for Mart Laari, I am among those people who find that Mart Laar has done a great deal of good to Estonia. After all, we know what he was doing for 20 years, especially when he was Prime Minister at the time of the country's restoration of independence. I don't have a wish to drive in to anyone. We are now talking about how Estonia is developing. If we want Estonia to develop, we must not have too expensive public authorities. That's what we're talking about. However, if we want to change all these laws, I believe it will take a long time, and Mart Laar will be able to do so several times. All these things I'm talking about take a lot of time. This, too, has been a fundamental issue that has been discussed when the Vice-Presidents were not approved or when the President was elected. I have found that the most important thing is the future of Eesti Pank, and that is what we are discussing how to make sure that we have a strong Eesti Pank. Vice-Presidents are involved, the bank's presidents are involved, the governors are involved, but it's not that important. Personal issues are never as important as structural issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U64	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Jaan Männik, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, for both your presentation and your answer to questions! Do ladies and gentlemen want to open negotiations? Let's start the negotiations. My colleague Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U65	I think it is appropriate to express Parliament's gratitude and appreciation to Jaan Männik for his work in the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank to conclude this inquiry. The activities of Eesti Pank have undoubtedly become much more transparent over the past few years. There was also a lot of personal aspects here, but let's be honest, in recent years many of the secrets of Eesti Pank have been opened. If the management of the bank did not wish to clarify its past, the special committee of the VEB Fund of the Riigikogu would not be able to do its job. I regret that sometimes such political exchanges are made because of personal resentment. It is clear that Eesti Pank and I are in the situation where we are, because Jürgen Ligi failed to become Governor of Eesti Pank. I agree that the Governor of Eesti Pank should not be a politician, and there is no doubt that the management board of Eesti Pank has so far met these high expectations. I would like to touch on the fact that there was talk here about the cost savings of Eesti Pank. In the last year, Eesti Pank managed to make more than 34 million euros in profit. In many ways, during the economic crisis, Eesti Pank has decided to buy bonds from many risk countries. These bonds are linked to the risk profile of the bank if anything happens, then Eesti Pank must have sufficient reserves to carry out the loss. And now we come out that if a politician, such as the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, goes to Europe and meets his colleagues there and they decide that we will meet some of the risk countries and pay him back the interest on the bond, then the principle of separation of powers should not be forgotten. Let us remind you that three years ago, Jürgen Ligi and his party associates here ironed out that Finland requested additional guarantees and gave up interest on Greek bonds. What did Estonia do? He didn't ask for any guarantees and said that we were earning from Greece. Now it turns out that we do, but we are sending all this service back to Greece. Igor Gräzin, who has left the hall, said that his party is now concerned that Greece would have a soft landing guaranteed to pay its debts, forgetting that the same interest-free loan has come from our state resources and that we can support our people in difficult times, therefore decreasing. But with that story, I was just marking the subject, which is probably on Mart Laar's shoulders now. So far, the management of Eesti Pank has stood firm for the independence of the bank, and we all assume that Mart Laar, too, will not become a pendant of the government, but will be able to stand for the position he is about to land in. Thank you for your attention and once again thank Mr Männiku for his meaningful presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U66	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U67	We will go to the next question, which is the inquiry submitted on 8 May 2013 by the members of the Riigikogu, Priit Toobali, Ester Tuiksoo, Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamme and Peeter Võsa about the activities of the Estonian Film Institute (No 332). Please, colleague Peter Võsa, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U68	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, On 8 May, we really made an inquiry into the activities of the Estonian Film Institute. The Minister's words and actions have been so divided on this matter that the question arises as to whether the Minister has really told us the truth. Namely, the Minister of Culture renamed the Estonian Film Foundation Estonian Film Institute at the end of last year. The new Statute and the new members of the Supervisory Board were also approved. On 18 January 2013, the Minister of Culture changed the composition of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Film Institute and called back Siim Sukles, Edith Sepp-Dallas, Mait Laas, Peeter Urbla and Mait Mäekivi and appointed Paavo Nõges, Anvar Samost, Jaanus Rohumaa and Rein Oja as new members of the Supervisory Board. Following the replacement of the Board of the EIF, the Minister of Culture explained to the public that according to the State Assets Act, persons who have participated in the management of, or owners of, any kind of beneficial companies or non-profit organisations cannot belong to the Board of the Foundation established with the participation of the State. It is noteworthy, however, that during the current term of office of the Minister of Culture, three of the five members of the Supervisory Board were members of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Film Foundation until 1 January 2013, without the question of their recall being raised. The decisions of the new Council are also significant. In particular, on 21 March 2013, the Board of Directors of the EIF appointed Edith Sepp-Dallas, former member of the Board of Directors, who was given the consent to appoint Piret Tibbo-Hudgins as the principal producer. Piret Tibbo-Hudgins began to share the film money while he was a shareholder and board member of OÜ Allfilm. This private limited company has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the EF. We recall that the Minister has said: 'The beneficiaries themselves should not participate in the decision-making process. /... There are laws and rules to be observed. These things have to look through for everyone. ' Edith Sepp-Dallas was a member of the supervisory board of the Estonian Film Foundation, a new name for the Estonian Film Institute until 1 January 2013. Pursuant to § 74 of the ATS, which expired on 1 April 2013, it could not, for a period of three years from the date of its dismissal, become a member of its employer or a profit association which it systematically supervised during the last three years. Nor could this official receive income from such an employer or a profit association for a period of three years after the date of dismissal. The new entry into force of ATS reduced this deadline to one year. It is therefore unclear on what legal basis Edith Sepp-Dallas was appointed as a member of the board of the Estonian Film Institute. On the basis of the above, we have five questions for the Minister, which I am not going to read here, in the hope that the Minister will also read the questions in response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U69	Thank you very much, Mr Peter Võsa. Rein Lang, Minister of Culture of the speaker's desk, please answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs, I'm trying to answer your questions. The first question: 'The Statutes of the Estonian Film Institute were approved just before Christmas 2012. What extraordinary circumstances led to the establishment of the Estonian Film Institute in such an urgent way? " By saying that there was something urgent, it is impossible to accept. In 2010, a basic document based on the opinion of people working in the film field was produced on developments in professional filmmaking. For the first time, a hearing was held on such a wide range of opinions in the film area, during which understandings were harmonised and their common role was clarified. In discussing the restructuring of the organisational structure, it was concluded that a broad-based organisation should unite the field, which could be the Estonian Film Institute. This whole saga is beautifully on the website of the Estonian Film Institute. In 2012, the proposal for reorganisation was also discussed in the Board of the Estonian Film Foundation, where possible structure and statute were also autopsied. All sector representatives were involved throughout the process by participating in regular meetings. It was only after that that the Minister of Culture was invited to reorganize the Estonian Film Foundation into the Estonian Film Institute. Of course, there was no one hundred percent consensus on this issue, and I do not believe that this can be achieved in the creative organisation. Or if you want a 100% consensus, the only way is to do nothing. The second question: 'For what reasons were the beneficiaries of the Estonian Film Foundation's board not recalled after becoming your minister, but only in January 2013? ' Thanks for the question, but I do not quite understand whether my becoming a minister was accompanied by any significant changes in the legal area. It wasn't! Legal issues were also analysed and discussed before 2012. But since the law and the statute of the Estonian Film Foundation were interpreted in various ways, the concrete results of the change in the composition of the Supervisory Board were only achieved at the beginning of 2013 when the whole foundation was reorganised. He also received a new statute which no longer gave the opportunity to interpret the law or foundation's fundamental documents in two ways. The third question: 'For what reason was Piret Tibbo-Hudgins appointed chief producer of the Estonian Film Institute, who was a member and shareholder of the management board of one of the largest EF beneficiaries almost a month after taking office? " Piret Tibbo-Hudgins was appointed for the reason that it was a professional and strong professional who successfully passed a multi-candidate competition on 21 March 2013. He was appointed on 25 March 2013. The agreed condition was also the resignation of OÜ Allfilm from the board member and the withdrawal of OÜ Allfilm from the group of shareholders to ensure the independence and impartiality of the main producer. Piret Tibbo-Hudgins also respected these agreements. His removal as a member of the Management Board of OÜ Allfilm took place at the Allfilm shareholders' meeting on 29 March 2013. The B-card of OÜ Allfilm has changed on 19 April 2013. Piret Tibbo-Hudgins also sold its stake in Allfilm OÜ. According to the central register of Estonian securities, the shareholders of OÜ Allfilm are Ivo Felt, Rein Kotov and Pille Rünk. We cannot unduly prevent people from making career changes in their professional lives. Therefore, Piret Tibbo-Hudgins' work as the main producer of the EF and making proposals to grant support in this process is not deplorable and does not constitute a violation of any restrictions. It should also be noted here that the registration dates of the registration card in the register have an informative meaning, but they do not affect the starting date and ending date of membership of the board of directors. According to the Commercial Code, the decision to elect a member of the management board of a private limited-liability company is valid from the time it is made, and the status of a member of the management board ends on the day of the decision to withdraw or resign the member of the management board, not on the day of the registration of the business register. This should be absolutely clear in law, which is due both to the Commercial Code and to the practice of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court ruling in case No 3-2-1-39-05 states that membership of the board and the termination of the term of office are only a matter of the relationship between the company and the member of the board. The registration of a member of the management board in the commercial register must disclose the relationship to third parties, but the entry in the register shall not create or terminate that relationship. The assessment of being a person associated with an anti-corruption law must be based on the actual status of a member of the management body. It is important that OÜ Allfilm decides to withdraw the board member from the shareholders' meeting, not the date of registration in the business register. Since OÜ Allfilm's shareholders' meeting decided to withdraw the member of the board and the rights, obligations and powers of the board member expired already on 29 March 2013, Piret Tibbo-Hudgins was no longer a related person within the meaning of § 7 (1) (3) of the Anti-Corruption Act. Nor has there been any evidence that would in any way call into question the substantive neutrality of the activities of Piret Tibbo-Hudgins. The decision-making process and the involvement of experts have taken place in an open and transparent manner, the motives why one or the other project has been preferred have been objectively traceable and understandable. The fourth question: 'Which law or other legislation gives rise to the right of Chancellor Paavo Nõges of the Ministry of Culture to request from the film area a consensual proposal for two members of the board of the EFI, as expressed by the Chancellor by letter No 1.5-2/246 of 6.02.2013? ' Thank you for your question. It is necessary to begin by stating that, according to the law and the constitution of the foundation, the members of the supervisory board are appointed by the founder whose rights in this case are exercised by the Ministry of Culture. By letter of 6 February, cited in your inquiry, Chancellor Paavo Nõgene of the Ministry of Culture asked filmmakers to present the names of the two film professionals who could belong to the Board of the Estonian Film Institute. Paavo Nõgene did not make any demands on film people, but asked them to nominate candidates who could represent film interests in the Council more generally. A day earlier, on 5 February 2013, a number of Estonian filmmakers had asked for the appointment of two delegates from film organisations to the Board of the Estonian Film Institute in their address. There was a concrete proposal aimed at creating better preconditions for dialogue between the state and filmmakers, and the Ministry of Culture considered this to be justified. A better working environment and communication will undoubtedly be ensured by accepting candidates on the broadest possible basis in the film community. On 18 February, eight dignified film-making organisations submitted two candidates for council members to the Ministry of Culture: Lauri Kärgi and Valter Uusberg, whom I appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Film Institute by order of 19 February this year. The fifth question was why the Minister of Culture, Edith Sepp-Dallas, did not apply the limit provided for in § 74 of the Public Service Act when he was appointed as a member of the Board of Directors on 21 March 2013. I would like to thank you for your question, but the honourable questioners have based themselves on the wrong assumption that the Ministry of Culture would appoint members of the board of directors of the Estonian Film Institute. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the Law on Foundations, the Board of the EIF decides on the change in the membership of the members of the Management Board, consisting of nine members, including the persons proposed by the sub-unions of the film. Since the Minister of Culture has not appointed a member of the Management Board of the EFI, the question arises as to why the Minister of Culture has not implemented today's invalid provision of the Public Service Act. However, as far as the Council's activities are concerned, the EIF's board of directors makes its decisions independently. As far as I am aware, the election of the Head of the Estonian Film Institute was on the agenda of the EFI Council meeting on 21 March, and at that meeting, Edith Sepp-Dallas was elected by the EFI Board as a member of the Management Board. The question you raised regarding § 74 of the Civil Service Act has been addressed by the Council and is also reflected in the minutes of the meeting. According to this invalid provision today, within three years of the date of dismissal, the civil servant could not enter the service of the employer or member of the profit and loss association which he systematically supervised during the last three years. The protocol states that following consultation with lawyers, the Board of the EIF took the view that the election of Edith Sepp-Dallas as a member of the Board of the EIF was not contrary to the law, as the role of film advisor was not to supervise the Estonian Film Institute as a legal person in the exercise of state authority. This type of national supervision functions for the foundation had not been assigned to the film advisor at the Ministry of Culture. As a member of the supervisory board of the foundation, the person in question was appointed as an expert in the film area, so that he could contribute to the preservation and development of Estonian film culture. It is hard to imagine what a substantive problem could arise if a person moves within a foundation from one board to another, if he is already associated with that foundation anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U71	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's continue with the questions. Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U72	Good minister! It wouldn't have been asked if the information about the movie people's quarrel hadn't gotten high and far. The Committee on Corruption also came to an end, and that is what this question is about. There is too little money in the Estonian film world and maybe a lot of good makers. I know there's a case that one movie scenario has been paid off, but no money has been found to make it in 15 years. The money is therefore wasted. I think it's weird. My question, however, is for you as a serious cultural patriot. How happy are you with the work paid off by the film fund? Do you think that the decisions made by the film people themselves, what to do and what not to do, are adequate? What does this look like to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U73	That's a pretty complicated question. After all, the amounts allocated to the film are State aid, which must be determined in accordance with State aid rules, in addition to everything else. This was to be taken into account before the Estonian Film Foundation, and now it is the responsibility of the Institute and the Cultural Capital. The rules on State aid authorisation fix precisely the conditions under which State aid may be granted at all. That is one important restriction. The deadline for the authorisation of State aid applied for ten years ago expires at the end of this year, so we must apply for a new State aid authorisation from the European Commission. We are certainly also asking for a change in the terms of the authorisation, and the current conditions do not seem very reasonable to me personally either. The decisions of the Estonian Film Foundation, both the executive board and the board of directors, were what those restrictions were when they existed, and I too have a number of questions. However, it is very difficult for me to comment on it here because these decisions have been fundamentally legitimate. The National Audit Office has also drawn attention to problems with these decisions in its reports, but verification has revealed that these have sometimes been subjective misconceptions, but they have not been illegal. I guess that's all about reorganizing the foundation and putting new people at the top. I hope this gets better. But the fact that there's a lot of people and money isn't enough is God's right, isn't it? And in the education system, we produce more filmmakers all the time, while the amounts for filmmaking do not increase much. What's the solution? There is still much greater contribution from the private sector to the Estonian film industry. The public sector with state budget and cultural capital money alone will not make it out, there are many players and everyone's desire to make a film is great.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U74	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U75	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'd like a purely legal comment from you first. Does the current Public Service Act no longer contain this three-year limitation provided for in § 74 of the former Law? I just don't remember. Secondly, as we know, there have also been cases recently in the case of theatre foundations that a member of the board of the foundation becomes a member of the board of directors the next day and vice versa, a member of the board of directors. Have these appointments been correct from the point of view of the new ATS?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U76	He's got a big mash and cabbages! First, the section of this previous Civil Service Act was declared invalid by the Supreme Court in its time, but it was done in such a way that it does not fully understand whether it is applicable to foundations or not. The new Civil Service Act has reduced the period during which the supervised person may not enter the service of its employer from three years to one year. But the question is, what does supervision mean? The text of the law speaks of state supervision. National supervision is an activity in which the person concerned must have the right to make binding decisions in his own name. It is highly doubtful that being a member of the Council means such national supervision. A member of the Council has no right to take any decisions on his or her own behalf; the decisions of the Council are collegial. This is a legal issue that the Riigikogu did not discuss when adopting the new ATS. We should keep arguing, or it could go to total absurdity.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U77	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U78	Minister, thank you very much. Mr Riisalu mentioned that something has been said on this subject in the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption, and a follow-up to this story has also been mentioned in the Special Committee on State Budget Control. In this context, I ask what measures have been taken by the Estonian Film Institute to comply with the obligations of the State Aid Giver under the Competition Act, i.e. to prevent corruption.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U79	Everyone has to comply with the law; it has been brought to the attention of all the Soviets. The activities of the council of the Estonian Film Institute must also be one hundred percent legal. Their attention has been repeatedly drawn to this and the Council, in turn, demands it in quite categorical form from the executive board. I hope that complaints from different places, many of which are due to the fact that one or the other project has not been funded, will be reduced as people will be given adequate and justified answers. If the Riigikogu intends to deal with these complaints in the future, I wish these committees a great deal of strength to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U80	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U81	Good minister! My question consists of two parts. First of all, the appointment of the main producer of the EF. He took up his duties on 25 March 2013 and resigned as a member of the Management Board of Allfilm on 29 March. Wouldn't it have been better to wait those four days and then consider his employment as valid? Maybe it wasn't that much of a rush. The second question: do I understand correctly that neither film counselor, museum advisor or theatre advisor is in any way in control or supervision of the institutions that are subject to the Ministry of Culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U82	Absolutely! Counsellors of the Ministry do not have the competence of independent national supervision. They may not sign any decree or other paper requiring, for example, museums or other institutions to do anything specifically. They advise the Minister on the preparation of such documents, but they have no competence for independent supervision. As far as Piret Tibbo-Hudgins is concerned, I thought it was quite clear that this was a position where these restrictions did not apply. It was, in fact, the decision of the Council to require the President to make sure that he was not the beneficiary when choosing the principal producer. The condition for his recruitment was that he gave up his participation and also gave up the role of manager in a particular private company, which he did. But the anti-corruption law has nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U83	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U84	Minister, thank you very much. It is good to hear that the accusations of direct personal gain, which sounded quite long and wide in the media, are unfounded to your conviction, and the lady is perfectly fit for her post. But what is the difference between this institute and the former foundation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U85	That's a good question! The Estonian Film Foundation focused almost entirely on supporting film production in its own time. The Estonian Film Institute must consider the whole chain from the end to the end, i.e. from ideas, their transformation into scenarios, the development of scenarios to their overgrowth in film production and the marketing of films. There's no point in making movies just for making movies, and it's also important that someone watches them. Marketing and exports are very important. This was also the reason why it was considered that it would be reasonable not only to change the activities of the Estonian Film Foundation, but also to rename the institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U86	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Culture. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U87	We will go to the next question, which is about the members of the Riigikogu Aadu Musta, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Peeter Võsa, Valeri Korb, Priit Toobal and Kadri Simson on 8 April. Report on the reform of higher education submitted in 2003 (No 318). Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U88	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Since autumn, the respected Minister of Education and Research has promised free higher education for all students in full-time studies according to Estonian-language curricula. At the same time, only students who receive an average of 30 credits per semester are expected to have the right to study free of charge. The requirement to complete the curriculum makes it difficult for students to work alongside their studies. Students who study part-time are entitled to charge tuition fees and students who study in private universities must pay the tuition fee themselves. In the course of the higher education reform, the system of education grants will also be changed. The current grant, paid for the results of studies, will be replaced by a need-based grant of EUR 75.220 per month of study. The need-based education allowance is paid only to a student who once again completes the curriculum in full. It is claimed that the need-based education allowance is as high as the student's average service while working alongside the studies. The reform will undoubtedly place greater requirements on the student to devote himself to learning and will essentially exclude the possibility of entering the labour market during his or her studies. National training orders will also be abandoned, the precepts for setting up places will be reduced and the results will be ordered from universities. Responsibilities are shared among universities. The Ministry of Education and Research wants one Estonian university to assume the main responsibility in each field, i.e. study programme group. The Minister has said that the responsibility of a university does not mean that certain subjects should not be taught elsewhere. In essence, however, this is still unclear and universities are not satisfied with the initial proposal by the Ministry of Education and Research on responsibilities, as it covers only a small part of the activities of educational institutions. Since the Ministry of Education also aims to reduce duplication by assigning responsibilities, it should first be made clear in which cases duplication is harmful, for example, leading to an inefficient use of money. In this regard, six signatories to the Riigikogu have four questions for the minister, which I ask him to read himself in terms of time savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U89	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U90	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good questioners and other members of the Riigikogu! I will start with a short rebrand of higher education reform. First of all, I would like to thank the Riigikogu for the adoption of this reform package and also the opposition for the outstanding proposals that were made during the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu Chamber. I am convinced that the adopted university law has, firstly, enabled equal and broad-based access to higher education, particularly for economically weaker members of households. Secondly, controversial regulation has been abolished, according to which those who would not have been able to access the university on the basis of their academic abilities could do so in paid education by paying the university. Thirdly, conditions have been created to improve quality and performance. Fourthly, in addition to the regulations already mentioned, the need-based education allowance regulation adopted in conjunction with the University Act has increased the possibility for students with a socially weaker background to study at the university, offering, in addition to the existing grants, which did not take into account the economic situation of the household in any way, a grant of more than four times more than the current performance scholarship, from EUR 75-220. But now I will also answer specific questions. The first question: 'How do you assess a possible scenario under which higher education will actually only be free of charge for students coming from well-insured families, that is to say, students who do not have to work alongside their studies? ' I would not like to comment on the attitude that lies in this issue, but I would point out, in addition to what I have already said, that one of the main objectives of changing the system of education grants during the reform of higher education was to enable young people who are in a particularly difficult economic situation to access higher education. For this purpose, a system was set up where students who devote themselves most to studies but whose family's financial situation is difficult or who live below the poverty line will, in addition to free studies, be able to apply for student support. The amount of the need-based education allowance, as has already been said, is EUR 75-220 per month, which should eliminate the need for full-time work alongside studies and enable the student to devote himself or herself to higher education. There has never been a plan and it is not reasonable to imagine that taxpayers should cover all the costs of acquiring higher education through the Ministry of Education, Research and the state budget. This is not the way it is meant, so it is not in any other country, and therefore such an ambitious goal has not been set for this system to be changed. I stress: the need-based support is intended to help students from economically difficult households to obtain higher education and not to cover all the costs of higher education. Student coping during studies is based on several pillars. The first one, I believe, is that we all know from our own experience that family support is. We expect all families to support their descendants even if income is minimal, as far as possible. Secondly, both students who do not receive parental support and those who receive it will be able to apply for student loans, which will add another 190 euros per month. Thirdly, we can see that students work in leisure hours, for example in the summer, and, if possible and if they so wish, with little effort during their studies. Again, I believe that many of us, perhaps even most of those who have completed higher education, have the experience of working part-time during their studies. In addition to these pillars, the Ministry of Education and Research is developing an additional scholarship system that allows students with good learning outcomes to receive additional income. If you add up all these four sources, you will see that there will be a significantly higher amount to cover the student's living expenses as well as study expenses than the minimum wage in Estonia. If such a situation cannot be considered to be entirely satisfactory, at least it is significantly better than the situation we have seen before. More importantly, better! Thus, with these legislative changes, the situation of students with a particularly weaker socio-economic background has improved, not deteriorated, as it seems to me, the questioners are imagining for themselves for whatever reason incomprehensible. The second question: 'If the problem now is the dropout rate of students and the low execution rate of the study load, how will sufficient needs-based support be provided to enable students to devote 100% to their studies? " Indeed, we expect students to take their studies more seriously than on average so far. Statistics show that we have also had serious problems with the interruption of our studies so far. 2011/2012. 15.6% of students completed or stopped their studies in 1996, i.e. one in six students in coarse lines. At the same time, however, it should be pointed out positively that about 35% of quitters will study in the next academic year on the basis of a higher education curriculum, i.e. they have simply changed their university or curriculum. So the problem of interruptions exists, increasing the likelihood of completing studies is one of the objectives of the higher education reform. And as already mentioned above, a number of instruments have been created to enable the student to devote himself fully to his studies, and this system will be further improved. I will also look at this third question a little more closely, but, as I have already emphasised above, the situation of students has improved considerably by adopting these two laws. One simple numerical comparison: study grants were doubled. Twice! Add here the scholarships that are going to be introduced in certain disciplines, as has already been done in teacher preparation and in the IT field, I believe that support for students and households will grow in the future. The third question: 'How to reward students for good learning outcomes when a system geared towards learning outcomes is replaced by needs-based support? ' First of all, we are convinced that the lack of need-based scholarships was one of the most serious problems in funding studies and caused a drop-out. Such a substitution is therefore justified in every way. This also came out in the debates held here in the Riigikogu. But really, we intend to extend the introduction of new types of results and professional scholarships. I would remind you that students currently studying in teacher training can apply every month for a scholarship of EUR 130. Students who study under the IT Academy programme will also receive a scholarship of EUR 200 to 300 per month. These are considerable amounts of education in such priority disciplines. The Ministry of Education and Research has convened a working group on the development of the concept of scholarships, composed of representatives of public universities and associations of applied universities and student associations other than the representatives of the Ministry. In addition to the scholarships already mentioned, the working group is in the process of mapping the foundations of the new types and conditions of the scholarship. New scholarships are a professional scholarship and a performance scholarship. The aim of the specialized scholarship is to motivate talented students to study specializations in priority areas of the country. Instead of the current EUR 55 grant, there is a planned result scholarship, which should be much higher and therefore motivate students to achieve better results. Question 4: 'The distribution of responsibilities between universities has now been largely negotiated. How do you see the division of responsibilities in five years? " True, most responsibilities have evolved historically. No one has any doubt that doctors and lawyers are trained primarily at the University of Tartu, teachers at Tallinn University, engineers at Tallinn University of Technology, artists at the Estonian Academy of Arts and musicians at the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre. The increase in the number of curricula over the last 20 years has led to duplication and fragmentation of disciplines between universities, and the main problem is not so much a shortage of resources, financial, human and material resources, but, above all, quality. We simply do not have enough qualified faculty members for all those universities that have dubious areas. So there are well-founded areas of responsibility, which should oblige universities to take special care of certain areas, but at the same time do not restrict teaching in other disciplines. Such a soft transition was an agreement between the ministry and universities and, to a significant extent, it has also taken place quite well. It is true that we are still debating teacher training and training for lawyers. There are other areas where duplication is greater than it could be, but we believe that this landscape will clear up in the next three, four, five years. The teacher training will certainly remain both in Tartu and Tallinn. You can also be pretty sure that competition and partial duplication between the Estonian Academy of Arts and Viljandi Culture Academy, for example, will not disappear. I think that this evolutionary development will lead to a reduction in duplication, but will not lose it where it plays a positive role in ensuring the quality of Estonian higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U91	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's start asking questions. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It certainly does not matter what kind of question the heirs ask, for the concern is well - founded. During the development of higher education reform, especially free higher education reform, many had high expectations, while others were perhaps heightenedly sceptical. It is therefore quite legitimate to ask for feedback on how things have gone so far. As I understand from your answers, you are quite convinced that at least the beginning has been quite successful. I would ask in this way: do you not think that the student's concern that the amount of student support is not sufficient to enable them to study full-time without going to work is justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U93	First of all, the general reform process. Indeed, after this sometimes over-political debate, the working environment is very good, relations with both higher education institutions and student associations are, in my opinion, constructive. Looking at how universities have now planned their admissions, we can say that access to free higher education has, at least in terms of potential opportunity, expanded. It's very hard to doubt that. Now for student coping and full-time dedication. Of course, it would be the easiest thing to do if the state paid for everything, but as I said, it is still a lot to want. This is a lot to want in countries far richer than us. 190 euros in loans, two months in full-time employment and some part-time work will also result in an annual average of 150 euros. We will put an estimated additional EUR 100 in family allowance here. As I said before, there will be more or less 400 euros in total, and that is considerably more than the minimum wage. A monthly income of EUR 4100 is an income that can be used for 40 hours a week. I think most people agree with that. True, there can always be differences of opinion. In a year's time, of course, this will be even clearer, but at least as far as I can see and know the higher education landscape, I can be quite sure that this system will be safer, especially for students with a weaker economic background. The talk that someone wants to in any way prohibit the work, no one wants to ban it, but rather to take off the excessive pressure to work at full load. If you work half-time or quarter-time during your studies and have a higher load during your summer vacation, that makes sense. Such regulation, however, will allow these 30 ECTS to be reached. I don't think it's too much for most students.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U94	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U95	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In recent days, the press has mentioned the intention of the Ministry to withdraw the training permit from two Russian-speaking private higher education institutions. I have been approached by students currently attending these schools with a simple question of what will happen to them. Would you take this opportunity to explain that, if such a withdrawal of a training permit were to take place, what would be the "own-account" of the ministry, their higher education institutions and students themselves in terms of continuing their education?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U96	This unfortunate state of affairs has developed in particular at the Institute of Economics and Governance, which has been dealing with quite serious offences. The problems that occurred during the routine quality control and independent of the ministry have indeed led to a situation where I propose that the government withdraw the training permit. This means that students who will not receive a higher education diploma from these higher education institutions by the end of June and August will not be able to continue at the same school. This isn't a first case. In Estonia, a number of higher education institutions have ceased their activities, also because of the withdrawal of the training permit and the bankruptcy process. According to the law, the institution of higher education, which has so far provided instruction, has a duty to ensure that further learning is possible. It is true that this cannot be done unilaterally; it must be done in cooperation with other institutions of higher education. I know several colleges have been contacted. I am quite optimistic, and I believe that these students will find a way to further study. As far as the expenditure incurred so far and its compensation are concerned, it has been discussed with higher education institutions, but so far, most cases have found the possibility of a flexible transition. The Ministry of Education and Research is ready to solve specific cases if students fail to reach a solution with higher education institutions. We are prepared to assist and advise on our part, but the Ministry certainly cannot take over education and do so by force to commit to another university. I stress once again: this is not a first case and so far all these cases have been resolved in a form acceptable to students. At least I have not received serious complaints either directly or through the press. Perhaps there is also a need to clarify the issue that has been dealt with as information noise or for some other reason. All those diplomas awarded at these higher education institutions will continue to apply as full-value diplomas in legal terms. Thus, if the university fails to act and its training licence is withdrawn, young people who have already been educated should not be afraid that their diplomas will expire. Those who will graduate this spring will also have a high degree equivalent to those of other higher education institutions, as they are institutions of higher education operating on a legal basis. Only for those who do not have time to finish this year will they have to look at which higher education they can continue their studies in. I deeply regret the statements made by the representatives of some higher education institutions, as if they were decisions made on a linguistic basis. Firstly, these two cases are completely independent of each other, and secondly, the language of instruction has played no role in their decision-making. We know that in previous years higher education institutions in the Estonian language have rightly been deprived of the training licence. Whatever language the study takes place, the quality of the study must be guaranteed in the Republic of Estonia on a uniform basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U97	Thank you. Any more questions? There are no more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Let's start the negotiations. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U98	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. Quite warmly, higher education reform and grants were discussed in this hall. After the introduction of free higher education, we all have a great deal of concern that the next autumn would be the situation in Estonia, where the target groups for whom we have wanted the most free higher education, perhaps the good young people who may not have access to higher education with the support of their parents alone, would still have access to higher education due to their talent. In fact, many members of the Riigikogu were also aware of the statistical indicators of several studies and therefore the debate became quite emotional in the meantime. We are already able to get the first insights into the admissions plans; the determined behaviour of the universities themselves will certainly contribute. At least in the autumn, it is clear that the majority of the options still exist for young people, and the fears that the universities spoke of quite clearly at the beginning, that so far paid curricula will disappear from universities and the students will have a much smaller choice, at least according to the information about admissions, are not true. With this greater interest, we look forward to the end of the autumn and also of the first year of study. In the Riigikogu, it is not a secret to anyone among future students that they need to be emotionally prepared also in order for quite a number of students to actually pay for their studies at the end of the first academic year. They may not be able to study full-time. There is also such an urban legend that these same so far paid curricula will gradually become paid again. In conclusion, however, we hope that free higher education thanks to grants and as the Minister said here, the further steps to be taken in this regard will indeed be free of charge and that in a year or two there will be no reason to come back to the reform of higher education and sadly say that the hoped-for one did not come true. We hope that these most skeptical predictions with which some universities and student organizations have come out will prove to be unfounded in declaring evil. Either way, we will continue to keep an eye on things, and it is certainly justified to have quite regular parliamentary enquiries on results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U99	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. Would the Minister like to speak? No, I don't. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U100	Next is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Mailis Repsi, Tarmo Tamme, Valeri Korb, Kadri Simson, Aivar Riisalu, Olga Sõtnik and Lauri Laas on 11 April 2013 (No 320) Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool. I'm asking for a speech chair on behalf of the inquisitors in Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U101	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, the subject of youth work in the Riigikogu rarely gets a lot of attention, but before the chessuve, it is justified to raise this issue again. Of course, the Ministry of Education and Research has specialists in the Youth Department, but there is also an entire youth work centre that deals with children and young camps, as well as with chess. It is certainly worth recalling here that on 9 May 2011, the Central Party Group submitted a draft amendment to the Youth Work Act and the Social Tax Act 38, which successfully passed the first reading. However, this did not pass on to other readings, as the Ministry of Education and Research explained that it would discuss with the social partners and other ministries the possibilities of abolishing the payment of social tax on young people's wages and analysing possible further steps. It is now 2013 and we have a more general question for the Minister, above all, about the assessment he will make of the student chess. We also want to know what steps the Ministry of Education and Research will take to increase the number of student-friendly places. The Minister and also members of the Riigikogu are certainly aware that the interest in the chess is quite high among young people. And how far are the preparations to really exempt the chesskeepers from paying social tax on young people's wages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U102	Thank you very much. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science of the Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U103	Good President! Good questioners! This time, youth work and chess. First of all, the general question: "What is your assessment of the proportion of student chess and upbringing in youth work? " A brief answer would be quite a high assessment. It seems to me that the young have received it well. Malev is not only an instrument of youth work and work education, but in many cases also has a practical output and thus performs a fairly important function in society. In 2006, the Ministry of Education and Research launched a joint project of youth support, led by the Estonian Youth Work Centre, a subsidiary of the Ministry. The objective of the project is to support local authorities so that young people can receive training to introduce work experience and the labour legislation. We also consider it important that, although this is short-term work, it increases both employers' and young people's responsibility for ensuring that the employment relationship is correct. For this reason, it is incumbent upon the chesskeepers to ensure that employment relationships in the wards are organised in accordance with the legislation in force. Younger people have become quite widely used forms of work education, involving at least 4600 young people per year. So chess as such are reasonable and necessary. It is also true that it is not appropriate to launch and maintain them on a purely market economy basis. Fortunately, the years when both student and student chess were also economical mechanisms are permanently behind us. The modern labour and labour markets operate on other bases, and such a weakly qualified mass labour force would be difficult to implement in a professional sense or in terms of value added production, but, as has already been said, it is a good solution for youth work and work education. There is also a question of how far the preparations are to exempt the chesskeepers from paying social tax on the salaries of young people. As the questioner has already pointed out, there was already a draft law in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, which would have freed the chesskeepers from paying social tax and made the creation of such jobs more attractive. The Ministry of Education and Research has supported this approach. As early as 2011, the Ministry prepared draft amendments to the Youth Work Act, the Social Tax Act and a few other laws. Clearer requirements were designed for young chess-keepers and to increase employers' interest in offering jobs to Chevrons, to exempt them from paying social tax on the remuneration they pay to young people under the age of 19 for work done in chess. The total estimated impact on the receipts of the state budget would have been EUR 128000 per year, which is not a large amount in itself, but would have been a fundamental tax distinction. It is probably from this point of view that we did not receive support from our partners for such a tax change. On 16 December 2011, we sent this draft for coordination to the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Youth Association, the Cities Association and the Association of Rural Municipalities, as well as the Estonian Youth Work Centre and the Estonian Youth Workers' Association. On 29 March 2012, we held a debate on the various possibilities of encouraging the creation of these jobs and, unfortunately, it had to be said that we did not achieve a consensual position to promote the creation of such jobs by means of such a fiscal policy measure. As a result, it was left to try to support the creation of chess jobs in other ways, and the Ministry of Education and Research has tried hard to do so. That is the partial answer to the third question. The second question was the steps taken by the Ministry of Education and Research to increase the number of student-friendly places. As has already been said, the proposed tax policy measure did not find any support, so we have increased the support granted to the authorities. This amount was EUR 95867 in 2011, EUR 98625 last year and EUR 102460 this year. Growth is not significant, but in any case it is considerable and certainly greater than the growth of the state budget as a whole, which shows that the Ministry of Education and Research considers this direction to be a priority and is trying to find additional money to strengthen this work-based youth work measure. We have tried to channel these funds in a focused way, not so much to support a chess social programme, or to organise assemblies and other events, but, above all, to keep in mind the purpose of the support, so that more and more of this money could be used to create specific chess places. True, the number of cemeteries has not increased at the rate of demand. In 2011, there were 4634 young people in chess, a year later 4760, and it is estimated that 4800 young people will be able to go to chess this summer. The number of those who have received support has also increased. There were 45 chesskeepers like this in Tunamull and 48 years ago. Such modest growth in this area exists. With a view to the future, we have planned the 'Development of the Quality of Youth Work' action 'to increase the competitiveness of young people and to reduce social exclusion through the provision of youth work services to society through youth centres'. It also envisages a wide range of activities to promote working life, as well as supporting young people's own initiatives in the interests of community development. In planning the planned activities and measures for the period from 2014 to 2020 we will certainly try to find ways to support young people's work experience and education. So, since our initial desire to support cast-over work through fiscal policy measures has failed, we have sought and will continue to support this activity in other ways by means of public budgets and the European Union Structural Funds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U104	Thank you very much. Please, Mailis Reps, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U105	Thank you very much for the positive message! It is certainly in the interest of all of us to support and develop the choices that young people have made. The questioners were also familiar with the regrettable attitude of the Ministry of Finance. However, when you and the Ministry of Finance argued or exchanged views on this matter a few years ago, did it still sound as if this tax exemption was entirely justified because it is not really necessary for young people at that age to pay social security contributions because they already have a health insurance cover because of their age?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U106	Yeah, of course that argument came up. In addition to the health insurance fund, there is also a pension component. Maybe so young people don't think about pensions, but someday they'll get a little older and then they'll think. In fact, the arguments of the Ministry of Finance are also understandable. In Estonia, we have chosen as simple a tax policy as possible, with as few exceptions as possible. It can be criticised, but it can be understood. Thanks to simplicity, the administrative costs of the system are lower and greater transparency of the entire state budget is ensured. Such indirect subsidies in the form of certain tax distinctions blur the overall picture. This has been Jürgen Ligi's principled and understandable position. True, the Ministry of Education and Research would very much like us to receive this support indirectly, without spending our budget money, but this domestic peace that has been achieved so far has, however, allowed for the expansion of chess activities. Perhaps one day they will come back to this issue, but now the Ministry of Education and Research is not going to go to a new circle with this proposal for a fiscal change. We support chess activities as much as we can in terms of the budget and believe that we are still able to raise students.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U107	Thank you very much. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? It is not recommended to open negotiations, so the issue of questioning is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U108	We will go to the next point, which is the request made on 6 May this year by the members of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, Jaak Allik, Rannar Vassilyev, Indrek Saare, Kalvi Tõud and Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool, for supporting children with special educational needs (No 328). I'm asking for a chair for Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. The Social Democrats have submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Education and Research concerning support for children with special educational needs. The number of children with special educational needs in mainstream schools is increasing. With this in mind, a number of issues have been raised in the process of processing the basic school and upper secondary school law and, in this connection, the draft law amending other laws. The main reasons why children are considered to be pupils with special educational needs are overwhelmingly learning difficulties, behavioral difficulties, behavioral disorders, writing, reading and/or calculating difficulties. The reasons for the problems of the students are difficult to identify, but it is clear that the earlier they are discovered, the easier it is to help the child and, most importantly, the cause of the problem that occurred. In comprehensive school, problems accumulate and it will be much more difficult to reach the root cause and to provide effective assistance. We have a development plan for the general education system for the years 2007 to 2013 with an implementation plan 2011 to 2013. It is foreseen that pre-school childcare facilities will provide opportunities for early recognition of the special development needs of all children and support for individual development. Guidance materials for early recognition and support of children's special needs are to be developed and support services are to be made available through support to regional advisory centres. On this whole issue, the Socialists have five questions for the Minister of Education. I hope he reads the questions when he answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U110	Thank you very much. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science of the Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U111	President-in-Office of the Council. Good questioner! Honourable audience in the Chamber of the Riigikogu who want to get better acquainted with the problems of children with special educational needs! There are five questions, as has already been said. First of all, how many regular municipal day-care centres and kindergarten primary schools are currently working with logos, special needs teachers, psychologists or social pedagogues? 'Logoped has a job of 50% and a special education position of 11% of pre-school children's institutions. According to the Estonian Education Information System, 314 logo beets and 68 special needs pedagogues work in kindergartens. The help of a psychologist can be ordered by pre-school children's institutions from regional counselling centres, where necessary, and the role of a social pedagogue is played by the guardian or social worker of the local government. It is the local authority that is responsible for ensuring access to support services in pre-school childcare facilities and schools. As has already been said, the position of logo beet is 50% and the position of special pedagogue is 11% of pre-school children's institutions. On the one hand, it is a lot, on the other hand it is quite clearly few, because not all pre-school institutions have these posts. When we think about it, we understand that the reason is that a lot of pre-school facilities are so small that it does not make sense to hire full-time professionals, not to mention part-time. There's just not a lot of work. All of this also points to one of the most serious problems in the provision of support services in pre-school children's institutions, primary schools and partly in upper secondary schools: Estonia's average small schools are unable to provide sufficient burdens for special needs teachers, support staff and, unfortunately, also for teachers in many cases. This is one of our structural challenges, and it also explains the general policy trend that the Ministry of Education and Research has shaped in the development of support services. This trend consists of two components. As the current law has already foreseen for almost 20 years, the primary obligation to provide support services is for school holders. These are predominantly local governments, but also, of course, public schools and private education institutions. For objective reasons, it is difficult to meet this requirement in many cases. I am talking not only about budgetary constraints just for all schoolchildren, including the Ministry of Education and Research, but also about purely structural restrictions. These are largely small educational establishments and the burden simply does not come full. That is why the Ministry of Education and Research is planning to develop regional centres that are much stronger than the current ones in the future, from which support can be obtained for local authorities and other schoolchildren who, for objective reasons, cannot meet the requirements themselves. Such pooling of resources, public funding and support for the provision of support services are reasonable. Now I would like to dispel the misconception of a good person, who has maliciously used it, as if the support staff in schools were to be lost. No, you won't! Support personnel are needed and the number of these people should increase. The obligation to provide support services remains with school-keepers, but in addition, the State will develop an additional system that will support weaker school-keepers if their own efforts to solve these problems are not sufficient. This approach seems reasonable to us, and in the future it is also planned to strengthen this system with the involvement of structural funds and increase the number of support specialists across Estonia as a whole by tens of percentages. This cannot be done quickly, for example in one year, but in the coming period the support staff should grow in Estonian educational institutions. These are the necessary specialists and there should be more. The second question: 'The development plan also envisages carrying out an impact analysis of support systems for children with special educational needs. Has there already been some impact analysis of the failure to change the part of the basic school and upper secondary school law currently proposed, which concerns the recruitment and work of specialists as close as possible to children, i.e. at school? Does this impact analysis differ from studies and audits carried out so far and/or from the conclusions of international studies? ' Here's the inaccuracies I've been trying to disprove. The draft amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act drawn up by the Ministry of Education and Research and submitted by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu does not change the provisions concerning the work and funding of support specialists. As the Riigikogu has decided in the past, so will the Riigikogu. No changes to the repeal of the provisions, the withdrawal of funds or other items that have been criticised are planned. On the contrary, the Ministry of Education and Research has increased the amount of education for children with special educational needs in recent years without any legal changes. We will continue to do so in the future, on the one hand by developing regional support systems and, on the other hand, by allocating more money to schoolkeepers so that they can also bear in mind the interests of children with special educational needs. There hasn't been any plan to worsen the situation, it's malicious accusations, or it's just misconceptions of ignorance. The Ministry of Education and Research will further support the improvement of the quality of support services and their availability. Now for impact analysis. Since 2007/2008. for three consecutive years, the priority of national thematic monitoring has been to assess the effectiveness of measures to support students' learning performance and prevent drop-out. In 2008, the study "Students with special educational needs on the school card, access to support services for pupils with special educational needs" commissioned by the Ministry of Education and Research was completed. The results of both the survey and the national thematic monitoring stress that early awareness of students' special needs and rapid intervention at school level are considered important and effective and have improved over the years. For years Estonia has participated in studies and projects organised by the European Agency for the Development of Special Education. The final reports on these projects also underline the importance of support specialists and support systems for such students. The results of these studies and projects can be consulted at www.european-agency.org. It is possible to look at the relevant data and compare our situation with that of other countries. The third question: Will the financing of so-called regional support services include, for example, the transport of pupils and their parents or teachers accompanying their children, accommodation or other expenditure related to the journey to the county support centres? ' The main work of the support specialists working at county counselling centres is to advise teachers, parents and children if the measures taken at school have not produced results. Specialists working at the centres have also been able to be invited to schools, and their transport costs are covered by the ESF. When advice is given at the centre, transport is organized in cooperation between schoolkeepers, schools and parents. The Ministry of Education and Research acknowledges that there have been no problems with this cooperation, therefore, if such a problem arises, the information should be addressed separately. So far, everything has gone without the need for legislative or executive power to intervene. The fourth question: 'The implementation plan for the development plan states that the monitoring, support and support systems for pupils with special educational needs will be improved in order to prevent school leaving and school leaving. What will in principle be the indicators for monitoring who will collect these data and whose tasks would be to monitor and fix such students and their development environment? " Student development is at the heart of this whole support system. Well, figuratively speaking, if a student develops well, can cope with this support system, then the system has justified itself, if it cannot, then the system has not justified itself. As regards monitoring the student's development and fixing the development environment, this is primarily the responsibility of the school. The school must deal with this, of course, with parents, also with the help of counselling centres, if necessary, and with the help of the Ministry of Education and Research, if necessary. But no one can take this assignment away from school. The school is ultimately responsible for monitoring the student's development, fixing the development environment, as well as for implementing the necessary support measures. Teachers are the first to notice the child's special needs and are the primary providers of assistance. In order to implement the plan of implementation, a system will be introduced as of 2010, according to which schools will have to draw up an individual tracking card for the pupils when they meet their special educational needs, setting out their problems and the measures to be taken to deal with them. At the end of the academic year, the effectiveness of the actions will also be assessed. The educational support measures applied to students are also traceable in the Estonian Education Information System, and a statistical summary analysis is prepared each year. Regional learning counselling centres collect data on the sex, age, problems, needs, etc. of such students in the online environment and analyse them both regionally and nationally. Between 2012 and 2014, national supervision is carried out on the organisation of education courses for students with special educational needs in Estonian schools and on whether the data recorded in the EHIS regarding the clarification of pupils with special educational needs and the measures taken correspond to the actual situation. The key indicator for monitoring the effectiveness of measures applied to pupils with special educational needs is, as I have already emphasised, the achievement of learning outcomes and progress in school set out in the curriculum. Question 5: Can county advisory centres basically be called student support and support systems? Until now, the support and support systems for such students include continuous activities either by the school logopaedic, psychologist, social pedagogue or also by assistant teachers. In the event that all such services are concentrated in the so-called regional reference centres, what would be the capacity of such support centres, since the main task of the support centres is probably also to coordinate the activities of the support specialists and teachers working in the county schools in order to involve pupils with special educational needs and enable them to complete their basic education? What kind of preparation must people prepare and send a comprehensive picture of the situation in which a child needs help? ' Here again, there's been another mess. I cannot tell you why this confusion has arisen in the minds of the questioners, but, as I have already emphasised, we do not intend to stop providing support in educational institutions. All schoolkeepers must provide support services to the extent, in volume and quality prescribed by law. It stays that way, and it can also be improved. Regional or regional counselling centres are primarily for the support of weaker schoolchildren and smaller schools. They do not replace the current system, but they also come to support it. So all the support measures that need to be applied to children with special educational needs are divided into two broad categories: internal and external. In-school support measures are measures to be taken by the school, as has been the case so far and will continue to be provided by the support specialist at the school, etc. This is complemented by non-school support measures, which have been discussed and are primarily coordinated by the county centres. As regards the requirements of the relevant qualifications, as a rule, all specialists must have a master's degree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U112	Thank you very much. Heljo Pikhof, please ask your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U113	Dear Minister, Right now, from the state budget to regular schools, I don't mean schools with children who have some kind of disability diagnosed with money for support specialists. And it's because we have teachers now, we're going to have teachers in the future, and that's why regular schools don't get that money anymore. Municipal schools have to take care of themselves. I am very afraid that this does not guarantee that children will receive the necessary support services at home and at school. The assistant teacher must still be at school, and so must other specialists, but then they see the development of children. Teacher alone, the class manager can't make it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U114	First of all, I suggest you read the current law on comprehensive school and upper secondary school. It lists exhaustively who are financed from the state budget and who are not financed. It is quite clear that the provision of support services is the responsibility of the schoolkeeper. Stop! It has been, and it should remain. As far as the provision of support services is concerned, I repeat: there will be no loss of presumption that the teacher is primarily the primary person who notices the special needs and that some of these problems he can handle himself in the day-to-day teaching work. If he can't do it, then the schoolkeeper has to provide the help of a support specialist at the school. In some schools with fewer children than teachers, it is probably not appropriate to provide a separate support specialist, and in this case these people work part-time or employment contracts. Regional centres are designed to support these schools and their teachers. Reasonable working arrangements have been and will continue to be such that when there is a need, children needing help will be provided, advised and supported on the ground. Understandably, there are situations where such a support service can be provided and it is also more reasonable to provide outside school. So this is a whole complex system and a common solution that is suitable for all schools, starting with a school with 1400 children, and ending with a school with four children, it is not possible to come up with one. That's why this flexible system is created. In larger schools, the schoolmaster can offer this service almost entirely, and smaller schools must be provided with state support and this is what they intend to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U115	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U116	Minister, thank you very much. Today, too, you said that some specialists dealing with children with special needs have misunderstood the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, and you read the rest of it yourself. Perhaps it would be wiser not to make these changes. My question is about the Vastselina school I went to last week. The Vastseliina School is prepared to act on its own without any perspective. Schools keep in touch with them, asking about the next academic year. At the same time, they have no confidence of what will happen to the children they have taken in for a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U117	As for the PGS, it is quite clear in Estonian how things are. There's basically no room for interpretation. It is true that there has been room for interpretation in the government regulation and that it has been exploited by the various interest groups on the basis of their specific political interests. Now Vastselina from school. The number of children in Estonia has decreased. The number of children with special educational needs has also decreased, including those who need specific study conditions that can only be created in special classes or in many cases even in special schools. In an effort to take account of the needs of such children, the Ministry of Education has long analysed the school network of children with special educational needs and it is obvious that it also needs to be cleaned up. The current concept of training for children with special educational needs, which is the status of the project, provides for consolidation. We want to get to the point that in 2020, we can say that all schools for children with special educational needs have been fixed, that there are the same learning conditions as in other schools, and preferably even better learning conditions. This inevitably means that not all schools can continue on the same scale and function. Specific decisions have been taken as many as have been made. The final school network has not been confirmed, but in the near future we should reach the Ministry of Education and Research to inform all schools of their perspective. This is also true of schools where we foresee a cessation of activities after a while. I know that in the case of Vastselina's school, the question is quite acute. Of course, children with special educational needs still exist and, of course, all of them must be offered the opportunity to learn. But, as has already been said, not all these schools have children with special educational needs. I am deeply sorry that we have not yet reached a final decision on the Vastseliina school and that the students and teachers there are somewhat more insecure than the students and teachers of any other school. But unfortunately, this is the way it is now and, of course, the sooner we reach a decision, the better. I hope that in a year's time, there will be confidence, and we will no longer have such schools between the earth and the sky.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U118	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. An inquiry has been answered. Dear colleagues, all inquiries today have been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U119	Now, after the hammer hit, please register for speaking in a free microphone! Speaking chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U120	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, everyone who is watching this broadcast! I would like to tell you something beautiful about my neighborhood, about the fact that there are ten large euro projects in Narva and how this will change the city. Unfortunately, I cannot do this because my heart is more pressing. I have repeatedly talked about the Estonian judicial system, which is becoming Stalinist, about how things work. This is what the latest news looks like. I'm sure you've heard that there's a trial going on in Narva with five defendants. One of them is the former deputy mayor, the other is a council member, the former chairman of the Finance Commission, etc. A few days ago, a man was eagerly awaited in the court of Narva, and on the basis of his testimony, all charges were made together. He's here. There were plenty of journalists present, of course all the accused, the prosecutor, the lawyers, clearly this. The man went to the booth and said he was going to take all his charges back and that what he said about the defendants wasn't true. There was a description of the situation that you could see why this happened. The man I'm talking about is an entrepreneur. He went under arrest with the already mentioned government and council members, sat for 65 days in a cell and realized very well that since these are Russians, but also in Narva, they are basically people whose fate nobody cares about, whose human dignity and human rights are of no interest to anyone in our country. Later, he was bailed out with the right amount, EUR 77000, and accepted the settlement procedure. In the course of this urgent procedure, it is clear that just going free with a fine of EUR 2,500 would not be given a certificate, which confirmed that yes, took the bribe, 25% kept it, 75% passed it on. He was very much expected there in court, because his statements were the only more or less serious basis that sustained this process. Although it was only words, there was no factual evidence. And now the man came and took back his words. It's to get the bail money back, without which his company threatened bankruptcy, and to remain free. By the way, he had two children who were nine months old at home at the time. In order for his family to have anything to eat, so that the people of his company would keep their jobs, he had to take that step, he had to blacken other people. This has become a practice in the Republic of Estonia; it does not surprise anyone. That's not what I'm surprised at. Does everyone really care how they deal with political opponents in Ida-Virumaa, specifically in Narva? Didn't anyone at the moment have any interest that if there were quite a lot of journalists sitting in that hall, all of whom wrote about how the court started and what people were accused of, and it was published throughout the Estonian media, why hasn't anyone in the last ten days reported that this process of political deportation has practically gone to the bottom? I'm not tired of talking about us becoming a police state. And if you think it concerns only those Russians in Narva, you're wrong. Sooner or later, it will reach you, if you remain silent, including the Estonian media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-20_U121	Thank you. No more calls, so let's finish the free microphone round. Today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 5.50 p.m.
