ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the fourth working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. First of all, a representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office! Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U2	Madam Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today launching three draft laws: first, the draft law amending the Public Transport Act, which the Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts; second, the draft law on the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, which the Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur represents the Government of the Republic; thirdly, the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds and funded pensions, the Government of the Republic being represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U3	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U4	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to address a number of questions on behalf of the members of the Central Party Group to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The Ministry of Finance has focused its attention on reducing tax optimisation possibilities, including limiting the deduction of input VAT when purchasing passenger cars and goods and services for them. There are also attempts to impose a number of additional burdens on honest taxpayers. At the same time, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board estimated that last year there were 1000 persons who were affiliated to at least three companies and generated a tax debt of at least EUR 5000 for each of them. Unfortunately, there is nothing illegal about the above. In the context of the market economy, of course, business can always fail, but in fact it is tax fraud that has been under the same scheme for years, which is damaging the market and harming honest entrepreneurs. In this regard, we have a number of questions for the Minister of Finance. Why, instead of tackling tax fraud and trying to get the tax money out of them, is certainly a difficult job, we admit, trying to impose all kinds of extra burdens and restrictions on honest taxpayers? Honest people will suffer it and pay it all the time, but those who don't pay will never pay it. This doesn't seem interesting to the Treasury Department.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U5	Thank you very much. On behalf of the board, I have adopted three draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on their procedure within three working days. If an inquiry complies with the law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. I'm gonna pass on the messages now. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Government of the Republic. a Draft State Budget Act 2014 initiated on 25 September 2014, Senior Commission on Finance; second, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and amending the Law on liquid fuel, initiated on 25 September, Committee on Finance; thirdly, in the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the Income Tax Act, initiated on 25 September, commission of the Finance Committee; fourthly, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the VAT Act, initiated on 25 September, Leading Commission, Committee on Finance; fifth, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending § 3331 of the State Fees Act, initiated on 25 September, commission of the Finance Committee; Sixth, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Law on the organisation of health services, initiated on 25 September, Leading Commission on Social Affairs; 7th, in the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the State Fees Act and the Traffic Act, initiated on 25 September, commission of economics; eighthly, Valdo Randpere, member of the Riigikogu. a Draft Act amending the Law on the Election of Local Government Council, initiated on 25 September, Leading Commission, Committee on Constitutional Affairs; 9th, Social Democratic Party faction. a Draft of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted on 26 September, the Committee on Social Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. The following drafts were submitted to the Committee on European Union Affairs on 26 September and 3 October 2004: Firstly, Estonia's views on the proposal for a directive on the comparability of fees related to payment accounts, the transfer of payment accounts and access to basic payment accounts. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Monetary Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. tho 14 October at 13 a.m. Secondly, a package of drafts relating to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Constitutional Committee and the Legal Affairs Committee to give an opinion on the positions and drafts of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 17 October 2010 at 4 p.m. Thirdly, the package of draft legislation on the food supply chain. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed a Rural Commission to give an opinion on the positions and drafts of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 24 October 2010 at 4 p.m. The Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded to the Committee on Foreign Affairs the Government of the Republic. a Estonia's views on the draft Council Decision authorising the European Commission to open negotiations on the Investment Agreement between the European Union and the People's Republic of China were presented on 3 October. The members of the Riigikogu formed an Estonian-Omanian parliamentary group. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is on your desks. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U6	Good manager! The Social Democratic Party Group has proposed that the Bureau discuss an important national issue on Thursday 10 October. The Bureau has, for some reason, excluded this from the agenda. I expect, by looking at the rather empty agenda of this Thursday, that the reason is not the overload of the working schedule of the Riigikogu. Could you tell us which decision was taken by the Bureau on the basis of the section of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U7	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that this issue has risen. The Riigikogu Board discussed this on Thursday and also on Friday, and let me inform you of the content of the debate. Indeed, the Social Democratic Party Group submitted on 26 September to the Riigikogu Board a request to hold a debate on the issue of 'Regional access to education' at the meeting on 10 October. The application included Krista Kiuru, Minister of Education of the Republic of Finland, Professor Aaro Toomela of Tallinn University and Mart Meri, member of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The request was examined by the Riigikogu Board at the same day's board meeting. The Bureau found that according to § 153 (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the request made by the SDE Group is not to be accepted. Paragraph 2 provides that the duration of the debate, the rapporteurs and the time allowed for the submission of questions and speeches shall be determined by the Riigikogu Board on a proposal from the committee or political group that initiated the debate. The Management Board of the Riigikogu found, first, that regional access to education is an important issue for the Estonian state and the people, and therefore the Management Board of the Riigikogu supports the SDE Group's request to discuss the problems of regional access to education as an important national issue in the Riigikogu's plenary. Secondly, the Riigikogu is the legislative body of the Republic of Estonia, where the problems of Estonian state life are discussed and solutions sought for them. Representatives of the Estonian state and people, not politicians from other countries, will take part in these political debates. The Bureau saw the fact that the political debate of the legislative assembly of the Republic of Estonia is a member of the government office of another country as the main rapporteur, while at the same time the Minister of Education and Research of the Republic of Estonia is not represented in the debate and is not invited to participate in the debate, who is required by the Constitution to assume political responsibility for the organisation of education in the Republic of Estonia. The Board of the Riigikogu is of the opinion that this behaviour is not compatible with parliamentary practice. It is customary for politicians from other countries to be considered as visitors to the Riigikogu. According to § 13 (2) (7) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu authorises them to submit political statements, which is a different format than the OTRK. The involvement of the Finnish Minister in the OTRK debate would be a creative step in the precedent. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu took the view that it did not consider it possible to support the request made by the SDE Group and informed the SDE Group that a new request had to be submitted by the SDE Group to take the subject on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. The Board of the Riigikogu has not forced or can force the initiators of the OTRK debate to appoint specific rapporteurs. The Governing Board can only make recommendations that the initiator can consider. In this case, the SDE Group has the freedom to decide on the composition of the rapporteurs, taking into account the position of the Bureau, and, for example, to abandon foreign excellence. The Bureau would also have agreed to the option of the Minister of Education of the Republic of Finland, but the Minister of Education and Research of the Republic of Estonia would have been invited to perform as rapporteur. However, this was rejected by the SDE Group. The Bureau has not put pressure on the SDE Group to involve Professor Jaak Aaviksoo. It is rather a question of what conditions and where the debate is taking place. The plenary session of the Riigikogu is the most important political debate arena in the Republic of Estonia and is intended to discuss matters concerning the Estonian state. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I myself recommended that the SDE Group hold a discussion on this subject and with these rapporteurs in the Riigikogu Conference Hall. I have now explained to everyone the collective and consensual decision of the Riigikogu Board. Please, Mr Vasilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U8	Thank you. The Board of the Riigikogu is undoubtedly a very important institution, and certainly this interpretation of parliamentary democracy, which was read out here, was very interesting. I do not consider this to be entirely fundamental, because in my opinion, the governing board of the Riigikogu is not exactly the body that dictates exactly what parliamentary democracy is. And even though the Board of the Riigikogu is a very important institution, it should still be governed by the law. I will now look at the protocol decision you made on 26 September. You did not approve of the request in the form submitted, I mean the request made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. I'm reading the law on our house and rules of procedure now. Let us take § 153, to which you have referred in your reply. Paragraph 2 which you read out states that the duration of the debate, the rapporteurs and the time allowed for the submission of questions and speeches shall be determined by the Riigikogu Board on a proposal from the committee or political group that initiated the debate. It doesn't say anywhere that you have the right to approve or not approve. Where, based on which legislation did the Board of the Riigikogu acquire the right to reject the application of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U9	Count it again, here's the word 'determinates'. The Governing Board may also not appoint one. And the Bureau would agree with the debate if the minister of another country did not participate. I repeat one more time, it must be difficult for you to understand: this hall is a place of political debate. We have allowed the heads of state of other countries to enter this Chamber when they are on a state visit, we have also allowed spies to come to this Chamber to make political statements. But they're not in the debate. This hall is a place for political debates for the Estonian state. Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U10	Maybe my question was a little long, I'll try to make it shorter, then maybe it'll make sense. The law states that the Bureau will appoint a rapporteur on the basis of a proposal from a political group on a key national issue. In other words, you would have had the right to, of course, it is questionable whether or not this right is a right, but, let's say, theoretically you would have been entitled not to appoint a certain waitress. Where did you get the Bureau competence not to put the whole debate on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U11	We called on the Group of the Social Democratic Party to take account of the decision of the Bureau that foreign ministers do not participate in the political debate in the Republic of Estonia in this Chamber. Do you still not understand? Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U12	Let me ask very briefly and specifically: which legislation did you not put this debate on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U13	I already said we did it in accordance with § 153 (2). Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U14	There is your letter from 26 September and today from your printed page, which I consider to be the most shameful thing in national law that has ever been read here. You said both in this letter and here today that if the Estonian Minister of Education had also been a waitress on the basis of our proposal, nothing would have been bad. Then the Finnish Minister of Education could have come to this hall. How do you figure that out?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U15	I can tell you that when we had a serious discussion on this on the board, we tried to find some sort of compromise solution. I would remind you once again: we have confirmed that this is an important issue, but we would have expected the Minister of Education to have appeared here as an expert. In your option, he would have been the main waitress. Yes, I can sense that it was perhaps too soft, but we proposed a compromise. Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U16	There is no way to make an assessment of this agenda today. I don't know if to confirm it or not. I asked what legislation you did not put on the agenda a key national issue put forward by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. You replied that you relied on § 153 (2). Paragraph 153 (2) as has already been referred to several times states that the duration of the debate, the rapporteurs and the time prescribed for the submission of questions and speeches shall be determined by the Riigikogu Board on a proposal from the committee or group that initiated the debate. This paragraph 153 (2) does not in any way indicate that the Bureau has the right not to put the proposed debate on the agenda. I ask you again this: which legislation did you decide not to put this important national issue on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U17	Ladies and gentlemen, The Bureau asked the Social Democratic Party Group to change the names of the speakers. Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U18	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! This current interesting debate is also being followed by the public of the Republic through various channels. Therefore, in order to understand the substance of the matter, I am asking in substance. Would you explain why the Board of the Riigikogu considered the demonstration of the regional political experience of Finnish education to be dangerous for the Estonian state or the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U19	The board did not consider it dangerous for the Estonian state. It's far from that. However, I say once again: in this Chamber, political debates are held and a political debate drawn from Finland by a member of his sisterhood is, in my opinion, to put him in a very difficult situation. We proposed that this debate should take place in the Riigikogu conference hall. Because if we set a precedent for our country's life to be discussed by another country's minister, then it goes completely... I don't know where. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Maybe then we should give up too... Okay, I'm not gonna tell you what we should give up. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I promise that question will be the last of me today. We know that, in the light of a discussion of an important national issue in the past, some colleagues in the hall felt that the presence of the Tallinn Deputy Mayor as a waitress was not appropriate. Laine Randjärv, who chaired the meeting of the Riigikogu at the time, made it very clear that whoever is called rapporteurs was an exclusive question of the initiator, and therefore the Bureau did not see the possibility of interfering in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U21	I really don't know...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U22	Can I finish my question, ma'am? Therefore, I ask you this: is it now that we are setting a precedent in one way or the other that you can confirm that foreign top politicians are the only category of possible speakers whose Riigikogu Board rules out? Or is it an open-ended list that the board discusses every time, and in the case of any proposed debate, can it be found that it does not fit into the Riigikogu Chamber and is not accepted?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U23	Dear colleague Sven Mikser, I promise you that as long as I am on the board, no foreign minister will come to this hall for a political debate. Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U24	Madam Chairman! Why don't you explain where you took the Finnish Minister of Education's wish to intervene in the Estonian state's domestic politics rather than act as an expert? And don't you think you've offended the Finnish Minister for Education with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U25	I think that I did not seriously insult the Finnish Minister for Education by doing so. I talked to him about it, and I have the feeling that the Finnish Minister of Education did not know where he was invited. [[Let's hear it.]] Thanks for the applause, I just don't know what for! Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U26	I have a feeling that no one else knew where the Finnish minister was invited. Do you understand that if the political groups have the right to put on the agenda a debate on a matter of national importance and to propose rapporteurs, but the Bureau is determined not to confirm what has been proposed, it is essentially the same that you also give us precepts that can be told about the Riigikogu Speaker's Office? It doesn't really matter! You have no substantive right to a consensual decision by the Bureau to go over one political group or one MP! Do you understand what precedent you're creating?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U27	Dear colleague Eiki Nestor, I could ask you the same question. I think you understand very well what precedent you wanted to create. Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U28	Since we have spoken here about the competences of the various institutions, I cannot fail to point out that a moment ago you said that as long as you are the chairman of the Riigikogu, no foreign minister will appear on this board.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U29	Debate! Remember, in the political debate!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U30	Okay, in the political debate. But which legislation does the Chairman of the Riigikogu have the authority to state this here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U31	You asked me that question, and I'll tell you what competence I have. The competence is such that I do not want the parliament of the Republic of Estonia and the Chamber to be ridiculed. Please, Mr Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U32	Honourable Chairman! I have a feeling that you will have to answer the question, which has actually been answered exhaustively, for a number of times. The Social Democrats have argued that the Bureau has wanted to set a precedent. I think it's the opposite, the precedent is being avoided. The right to decide on the internal affairs of your country should remain in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, as you have repeatedly referred to. Wouldn't it be time we went to the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U33	I think that's the right offer. Everyone will be able to express their opinion on this agenda at the moment when the agenda is adopted. Dear Riigikogu, I shall put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 63 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of approving the agenda, 17 against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U34	Let's go to today's agenda. Answering questions begins. We will begin by asking the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vasiliyev, Priit Toobali, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Aivar Riisalu about the verification of the digital signature on 19 June (No 348). My colleague Yana Toomi of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U35	Madam President, thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, We had a report to Mr Juhan Parts, and that was not the first question. Before that, we asked Mr Pevkur, Minister for Justice, who thought it would be more appropriate to ask these questions from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, which we did. The information technology era has brought a large number of digital documents into people's lives instead of the current paper-based business. On 7 October 2002, the Mayor of Tallinn, Edgar Savisaar, and the Mayor of Tartu, Andrus Ansip, signed the cooperation agreement on information technology between the two cities, giving the digital signature of the document for the first time in Estonia. At that time there was confusion, in which case it was a digital signature of a person as a citizen and in which case the digital signature of a person as a mayor. Such technical problems have now been resolved, but the possibilities for expost verification of digital signature as a self-written signature are still unclear. The digital signature has the same legal meaning as the handwritten signature: it proves that the person who signed it is bound by the document on which he signed it. As regards the evidentiary value of an electronic document bearing a digital signature, there is a special rule according to which the authenticity of an electronic document bearing a digital signature can only be contested by stating the reasons on which it can be assumed that the document has not been produced by the digital signature holder. The prerequisite for this is knowing that a document is digitally signed on behalf of a person. Although the principle that an ID card should not be handed over to other persons as an important security requirement is that it can be abused, it does not reduce the risk that the identity card has been used without the person's knowledge. For example, a quick loan with an ID-card can be taken without recourse to a loan office and the money is transferred to a virtual bank account. Such fraud will only be revealed when the loan is repaid and the debt is defaulted. In this case, it is said that the person is responsible for leaving his ID card and passwords on the loose. However, the problem is also that people do not know where to check what has been done and when with their ID-card. Minister of Justice Pevkur, as I have already mentioned, responded to the same question this year on 17 June that this matter falls within the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. As a result, we have five questions. I hope Mr. Ducks reads them out. I'm saving time not doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U36	Thank you very much, Mr Toom. I would now like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U37	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu, also respected heirs! The first question is where it is possible to look at statistics on what a person has digitally signed, for example, over a year, and whether this is even possible. The "My ID-card actions' web service allows a person to monitor the authentications and digital signatures made with their own ID-card, digital ID and mobile-ID based on the fact that the validity statement is accepted. This service not only reveals the fact that signatures have been issued, but also all requests for verification of the validity of the signature tool. The validation service is also used to verify the validity of the certificate in real time, ensuring secure digital identification. In addition to the web service I have referred to, which is provided by the Certifying Centre, the National Information System Authority, in cooperation with the Certifying Centre, will also provide an additional opportunity for 'My ID-card operations' to be available on the eesti.ee portal and can also be viewed through the state portal. This option is currently available using the "My ID-card actions" web service. The best way to check the number of signatures given by a citizen is to use a personal key counter on the ID card. The counter is displayed in the opening window of the ID-card management tool by default for both authentication and signing separately. The citizen has to keep an eye on it and keep an eye on it. The second question: 'If there is a previously asked option, how can you understand which and what documents are signed with the identity card and authenticated in the portals? ' What has been the content of the document to be signed is not and should not be possible for a third party to find out. However, on the basis of the abbreviation of the message recorded and in the case of the original document submitted by the party verifying the authenticity of the signature, it is possible to state whether the signature is specifically given to the specific document. 'My ID-card actions' also indicate the source from which the request for validity has been made, so it is technically possible to identify the queryers. The reason for the request for validity can be determined by the requesting party, if necessary. I also point out that the secrecy of messages is a fundamental right of the citizen. The container containing the signed document is like an envelope and we don't open the envelopes. It's the same as breaking mail secrets. We can imagine some kind of public information service, such as the official e-mail address of the citizen. Service providers and online environments should inform the person as soon as the person has signed the document when and which document he signed. However, such a mass service and even less relevant statistics are not necessary. People don't want the state to know what they've signed. It's enough that we find out the fact that we're signing. When signing portals, it is good practice that any signed item can be downloaded by the signatory and, therefore, checked in an environment independent of the service provider, which he has just signed. This practice has been laid down by the Certification Centre as a requirement in its validity confirmation contracts. The third question is how can it be verified, for example, that no one has participated in e-elections with a person's ID card when he himself went to the station to choose from. If a person goes to the station on election day, when someone took part in an e-vote on his behalf via the e-vote system, he will know about it at the station because he will no longer be allowed to vote at the polling station. Note: so far, no relevant complaints have been submitted at any of the e-choices that we know of. Improving the security of elections will be dealt with. Relevant information can be provided by the Election Commission of the Republic, whose responsibility is the e-election system. It is very important to note that the source code of the electronic voting software is public. This is a step towards transparency of the system. The purpose of publishing the server code is to involve more experts in the technical analysis of the e-election system. In local elections this year, e-voting, i.e. pre-voting via the Internet, will also be able to control the vote for the first time. More specifically, it is possible for the e-voting person to test the arrival of his voice using a smartphone. Immediately after e-voting, the QR code will be displayed in the voter's application view on the computer screen for a short period of time. When photographing the code using a smartphone, it is possible to verify that the desired voice reaches the central e-vote system. The purpose of the verification is to ensure that the voter's computer does not have malware that could affect the voting process. Question 4: 'How many cases do we have in Estonia concerning the misuse of digital signatures? 'The misuse of substance, where the card is technically broken and then used, is not yet known. There are, of course, various misdemeanours and crimes that may be related to the use of an electronic identity, but this would require a separate analysis of the extent to which it has depended on the use of another person's identity card by another person. However, the current practice of the Court and Certification Centre shows that there has been no direct misuse of substance. Under the three-step reference security system for information systems, ISKE, possible attacks against the ID card as a secure digital signature delivery tool have been thoroughly analysed and appropriate security measures have been developed. We are talking about manipulating devices, data or software to physical attacks. The instructions and recommendations for the safe use of the ID card must be followed. Use of the ID card is secure. For example, the Banking Association advises clients to use an ID card or mobile ID instead of a password card for online banking and transactions, as these are the safest ways to identify themselves and sign the transaction online. An application manual for electronic identity has been prepared for all software developers at the request of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This guide provides the necessary basic technical knowledge to create secure electronic identity user environments. Recommendations for the application of cryptographic algorithms and life cycle research, as well as requirements for the use of cryptographic systems and algorithms in the national information system, will contribute to enhancing the security of electronic identity applications. Question 5: "Does and to what extent information efforts have been made to raise awareness of the use of digital signatures by older people, such as those over 50 years of age? ' See the World Foundation has carried out awareness-raising programmes for secure computer use, which has also been financed by the state. It has always been mandatory to teach them how to use an ID card. Some of these programmes have also been aimed at involving older people online. For example, a successful 'Be with you! ' a sub-programme, in which nearly 100000 Estonian people received basic and advanced computer training. The National Information System Authority has also taught the use of the ID card in its media campaigns. We intend to continue this. The National Information System Office is also currently supporting an ID-card helpline, where thousands of people are advised each month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U38	Thank you very much, Minister. Any questions? Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U39	Dear Minister, I am very sorry that I can only ask one question, so I will try to ask you a very long time. I opened this page, which you suggested to look at, and found that the Estonian and Russian versions are very different. There's almost no Russian intel here. Please tell me how a Russian-speaking person aged 63+ should know that someone has chosen the election with his ID card in case he doesn't go to the station on October 20th, for example because of the flu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U40	On this question, I had to make an unexpected distinction between a Russian-speaking person, a Russian or some other nation, and an Estonian. I think it's strange to make this difference, and I urge you to correct your thinking. If there are any differences between the public space and the provision of information in Russian and Estonian, they cannot necessarily be found in the content. However, the volume of information may vary. In general, we expect that the necessary aid lines and other means of use should be available to everyone regardless of nationality and mother tongue. Your question was, if a person doesn't go to the station to pick, but someone's been using his ID card. But tell me, I'll just bring a completely arbitrary parallel to the Lasnamäe polls, when someone's ballots are put in the ballot box just before the precinct closes, where does this person know that his voice has been used?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U41	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U42	First of all, I want to respond to the Minister. As we know, there is a Commission at the polling station to check that there is no mishap, unauthorized release of bulletins, whatever. Secondly, at the polling station, I can't go into the booth with my husband or mother or father or friend. I'm going to the cabin alone. There is no such check for ID-cards. But the real reason I came here is very simple. In June, standing right here after our inquiry, the Minister of Justice answered Mr Pevkur, I said essentially the same thing. Unfortunately, there is not yet a mechanism in the Estonian country to ensure that no one votes with a foreign person's ID card. In case that happens, that person just doesn't get caught. I had five I.D. cards with passwords in my own backyard. It's not the custom of our family to hide these things. I don't think we're the only kind of family. I am not talking about all kinds of nursing homes and other institutions where people have easy access to other people's ID cards and passwords. It is very sad that such a verification mechanism does not exist. What the Minister has just described requires a certain level. A person needs to be interested, he needs to know that these threats exist, he needs to be able to use all these databases. In fact, I did not know at all the difference between Estonians and non-Estonians, Estonian and non-Estonian people. I drew your attention, Minister, to the fact that this information is simply not available in Russian. Therefore, people who do not speak Estonian very well cannot control anything, can not use this mechanism that you have described. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U43	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U44	Next is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Inara Luigas, Kalvi Tõik, Rainer Vakra, Lembit Kaljuvee, Helmen Küti, Indrek Saare, Karel Rüütli, Heljo Pikhofi, Andres Anvelt, Marianne Mikko, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Deniss Borodichi, Jaan Õunapuu, Urve Palo and Neeme on 20 June to facilitate cross-border cooperation (No 352). My colleague, Inara Luigas, is waiting. To the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U45	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. We've already filed an inquiry on June 20th. In short, let me introduce what its content is. On 10 February 2009, I defended a draft decision of the Riigikogu in this very chair, entitled 'Proposal to the Government of the Republic to conclude a bilateral agreement with the Russian Federation on the organisation of local border traffic'. At the time, we dealt with this bill, but the Government of the Republic and the Coalition felt that negotiations with Russia were not worthwhile and that there was no need to switch to simplified border traffic. Several reasons were also put forward. One was the huge financial burden on the Estonian state budget, and there were other reasons. What, though, is important for the new management of border traffic? Indeed, if a simplified border crossing was introduced, people living within 50 kilometres of the border could apply for a border permit, who have lived in the area for at least a year. But, of course, there can also be arrangements for people who have lived there for at least three years, for example, to be allowed in the border area. A border crossing permit can be applied for by people who wish to visit relatives or to visit close graves, who have real estate in the border area, who wish to participate in teaching or cultural, sporting, educational or scientific events, or who wish to cooperate in this field. It is also possible to apply for a border crossing permit for people who participate in local government partnerships by developing cross-border social and economic cooperation. The most important thing is that the border crossing permit gives these people the opportunity to go on the other side of the border without a visa. This means that all those who meet the above criteria and have applied for authorisation can cross the border through a simplified procedure. It is also extremely important that not only are relatives and burial places visited, as is very important for the Setus, but that all border residents, with the support of local authorities, will be able to revive economic ties through such border crossings. This is crucial for the development of the region as a whole. On that occasion, Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet also said that this issue would not be further addressed. Just following closely what our neighbour Latvia is doing. However, Latvia gradually stepped forward in this area. In this Riigikogu there were also questions about this topic, but the answers were very laconic that Latvia is moving forward step by step. Latvia has now come so far that the agreement between Latvia and Russia on the simplification of the border regime already entered into force in 2010 in June this year, and border residents can go visa-free to the neighbouring country. We have six questions for the Foreign Minister. I would very much like the Minister to read the questions before the answers. We're waiting for answers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U46	Thank you very much, Mr Luigas. I would now like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U47	Good afternoon. On 30 October 2008, the government, on the proposal of the then Minister for the Interior, Jüri Pihl, took the view that Estonia was discussing the possibility of a simplified border crossing regime for border residents once experience in implementing Regulation 1931/2006/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council had become apparent in neighbouring countries, which gives Member States the right to conclude bilateral agreements for the simplified border crossing of border residents. According to the internal division of labour within Estonia, the area of border crossing is in itself mainly the administrative area of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It was in 2008 and still is, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also monitoring and exchanging information on relevant practices in other countries. Before returning to the subject of the simplified border crossing regime, we will certainly analyse the results and consequences of Russia's respective agreements with Latvia, Poland and Norway in everyday life. The most important of these is the experience of Estonia's neighbouring country Latvia, the cooperation between Poland and Russia, and the simplified border crossing at the Kaliningrad region border should be seen as a special case because of the location of this region. The same applies to an agreement between Norway and Russia, which is not part of the European Union, whose scope is beyond the polar line under unique geographical conditions. The other two countries in our region, Lithuania and Finland, have not signed such an agreement with Russia. As you pointed out in your inquiry, the agreement between Latvia and Russia on facilitating the movement of border residents entered into force on 6 June this year. Thus, it has only been in force for a few months, and Latvian officials have also stated that it is too early to draw far-reaching conclusions on the success of the new regime, on the costs involved in its implementation, as well as on concerns. There is extensive cooperation and exchange of information between Estonian and Latvian public authorities in a wide range of areas, including this issue. The next round of consular consultations will take place at the end of the year. We have also continued discussions with Russia to facilitate the movement of people in border areas and to promote bilateral cross-border cooperation. These issues are addressed in particular in the annual consular consultations between Estonia and Russia. As far as expenditure is concerned, in 2009 estimates made by the Ministry of the Interior and then the Citizenship and Migration Board showed that the implementation of such a system would be disproportionately costly. The size of this cost was estimated at EEK 60 million, or about EUR 4 million. It was also known that the implementation of such an agreement would significantly increase the burden on border infrastructure. As we all know, the current intensity of border crossings does not always ensure that all border crossings are served quickly and efficiently. Estonia, for its part, is ready to invest in modernising border infrastructure, but the border crossing system as a whole also requires the contribution of the other party. We have repeatedly stressed the importance of this issue and we consider it necessary that Russia also make a greater contribution to improving the situation. The issue of border crossing was discussed, for example, at a bilateral meeting of prime ministers in St Petersburg in April this year. I also spoke about this in June this year at a meeting with the Russian Foreign Minister in Kaliningrad. As a result of the cooperation between the Estonian-Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Russia started issuing visas on a simplified basis in 2009 to residents of border areas whose journey is intended to participate in scientific, cultural and artistic events, including university and school exchange programmes. To this end, the citizens of border areas will also be issued with multiple visas based on the visa facilitation agreement between the European Union and Russia. In addition, on 1 August this year, the Estonian Government approved an agreement to promote interregional and cross-border cooperation between the Estonian and Russian governments, which lays the general basis for cooperation and allows for more detailed cooperation agreements and specific cooperation projects to be carried out in the future. Estonia is also actively involved in the visa dialogue between the European Union and Russia, whose ultimate aim is to achieve visa-free movement for the citizens of both parties. We attach importance to the possibility of extending people-to-people contacts and increasing understanding and trust throughout the region. A comprehensive visa waiver agreement resulting from the visa dialogue would create more favourable conditions for simplified border crossings for residents of both countries. Therefore, it would be more difficult to justify the possible costs of easier border crossings for border residents today in the long term. As regards contacts with residents of border areas, the last time I met representatives of the local government leaders and civil society associations in South-East Estonia less than a week ago, on 2 October in Meremägi, where we spoke about, among other things, the possibilities arising from the visa facilitation agreement between the European Union and Russia and the implementation of this agreement. Of course, people's views and feedback from the region are important to us at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is also the basis for the next consular consultations with Russia when we are dealing with regional border crossings. You can also apply for and make minor changes there. Finally, you also examined whether the government had discussed the possibility of covering expenditure with the European Union's Structural Funds. However, the Structural Funds cannot be used for this, as simplified border crossings do not qualify as eligible areas from the point of view of the Structural Funds, according to the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U48	Thank you very much, Minister. Please ask a question, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U49	Good minister! At 7:00 a.m. this morning, a bus from Rakvere took off with a group of teachers towards St. Petersburg, went to a pedagogical seminar or conference. I called at 9:30 in two and a half hours and asked if you had crossed the border. They said it wasn't yet. It doesn't take an hour and a half to travel from Rakvere to Narva, but it took them an hour at the border. During the Soviet period, people went abroad a few times, but they don't remember the buses being checked for so long. Do you think it's normal for people to wait an hour on the border with a registered bus?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U50	Unfortunately, we can also give examples of crossing the border between Estonia and Russia, where people have waited hours, perhaps even dozens of hours, in the queue. This one hour, I think, is still good. Of course, we all wish that things would go even faster, with even less time. But this same time spent at the border also refers to what I mentioned in my introductory monologue: the infrastructure of the border between Estonia and Russia, above all in the north, or Narva, is not in line with demand. All the more so, there is a question mark in the air, which will happen when a simplified border crossing is created. We expect the number of border crossings to increase strongly. And if there is even a visa waiver, the number of border crossings will increase. However, we already have problems with border infrastructure, the queues are long. We can say that, therefore, we are not at all prepared for a simpler border crossing. Then these queues will not be an hour or two, but much longer. However, in cooperation with the Russian side, increasing the possibilities for border crossings is certainly an important objective. If the day x really comes with a visa waiver, then we need to be ready for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U51	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U52	Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, Latvia has already been mentioned. They have been more successful in cross-border work and cross-border crossing is easier than we do. Have we studied their experience a little bit? Is there anything we can imitate from there?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U53	Mr. Minister! You mentioned that security and security are also important to us in addition to the economy. However, you also said that there is no danger even when visa liberalisation comes, because border control still remains. So security may not really be a primary issue. But I still want to ask you again about the economy. How much have you studied or drawn conclusions, has the current situation prevented our economic ties and worsened the state of the Estonian economy? At least businessmen complain. We know that other countries have much more lively relations with Russia. What is the purpose of our country? Maybe it's not just warming up relationships and getting along better.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U54	We would still like to get along well with all our neighbours, including Russia. As far as economic contacts are concerned, given our legal space, Estonia has done quite a lot to make it as easy for Russian citizens to travel to Estonia as possible. If you look at the statistics on the issue of visas in Moscow, St Petersburg and Pihkva, where our representations are, the vast majority of 80% and more of all the visas we issue are multiple, long-stay visas. Otherwise, it would not be possible for us to see every year that the number of Russian tourists in Estonia has increased by about 50% during the year. I think it speaks for itself. Of course, we have an interest in the arrival of people who come here with good intentions. We also want to develop an economy in this area. However, it is not worth underestimating the concerns about border infrastructure. Lembit Kaljuvee was complaining that people had to wait on the bus for an hour at the border. I'm sure you've all been watching what's going on at the border before and after the turn of the year when the queues are several times longer. The same can happen in summer. This is an issue that absolutely needs to be dealt with right now. Otherwise, even if interest continues to grow, the situation at the border will become an increasingly depressing factor. St Petersburg is 130 kilometres from the Estonian border, and people think it's good to come close to us, but then discover themselves in multiple-hour queues. They probably won't come again next time. It is not worth underestimating this subject. This is very directly related to the number of people coming to Estonia on a shopping trip. If someone is going to come on a shopping trip to Narva, for example, but he has to wait for hours in line, then he'll make another choice next time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U55	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U56	Mr. Minister! Estonia has a border with Russia and Finland has a border with Russia. Finns, by the way, also have quite a painful history, and Soviet Russia invaded them in 1940. In World War II, Finns and Russians fought on the other side of the front line, while Russia hatched half of Karelia from Finland. So there's no reason for a Finn to love a Russian more than a tundra mosquito loves his prey whose blood he sucks. Yet Finns sell half their production to Russia. There are no problems on the Finnish-Russian border, it goes both ways. Many Russians who want to come to Estonia take a visa via Finland, as this will make it much easier. Please tell me how the Finns can handle the Russians and we can't! What's the matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U57	I don't think it's like they can and we can't. First of all, when we talk about trade, it is an obvious exaggeration that they are selling half of their exports to Russia. If you look at foreign trade statistics, Estonia and Finland have more or less the same figure: 12 to 13% of all exports go to Russia, both Estonia and Finland. There's no point in falling into excesses. When it comes to cross-border movements of people, a clear distinction comes from what I have emphasised here on a number of earlier issues: it is a border infrastructure. We have only one border crossing closest to St. Petersburg, it's in Narva. We all know the situation there. There are several border crossing points near St. Petersburg on the Finnish-Russian border, all of them land border crossing points, there is no natural obstacle between them. It has enabled all these points to be developed. In fact, there has been interest on both sides, not just on the Finnish side. I recall that for years the Estonian state has been ready to invest in Narva border crossing infrastructure, and the Russian side has not been very interested in this. A bridge across the river can only be built if the other shore wants it. All these things must be borne in mind. Looking at Estonia, I see no inherent problem. Estonia is certainly interested that Russian tourists with good intentions would visit Estonia and that they would do so more than before. However, there are some things that need to be settled, such as the same border crossing system. As far as the general economic picture is concerned, Russia is a third partner for Estonia in foreign trade with around 13%. The share of Russia in total exports in Finland is more or less the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U58	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U59	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Our questioning concerns the simplification of border crossings. I will now perhaps ask a question that needs to be put to the Minister of the Interior, not to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Recently, both Koidula and Narva have had to pay to cross the border. Booking and parking have had to pay, but prices are different. Could you comment on why these prices are different?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U60	I don't know how to comment on that. I could answer if you'd let me know in advance. I would have brought myself up to speed on these prices, but I can't answer right now. The border crossing is indeed to be organised by the Ministry of the Interior, and this includes those rates when a service is provided there. I can't explain their background right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U61	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U62	Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! Much has been said today about 'political simplification' of border crossings and also about infrastructure in Narva. In recent days, there has also been a train connection between Estonia and Russia and a suggestion that border control can then be carried on a train. Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have any information behind which such a slightly more modern and faster border control is entangled or what is the temporal perspective of this solution? If I am not mistaken, this system works in Finland. How do you solve this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U63	The exchange of information between both foreign and domestic ministries is very close. At present, I do not see things that would work better at the Latvian-Russian border than at the Estonian-Russian border, except that their border with Russia is a land border to the full extent, which means that purely technical border crossings are easier to organise than we have in Narva. But also in Latvia, over the years we want to compare here, the border crossing queues have been as long as hours. There has been little difference in this regard. For example, there was a period where the order of goods vehicles at the Latvian-Russian border was much longer than at the Estonian-Russian border. As regards the new experience, as I have already said, the simplified border crossing has been implemented by Latvia for less than four months at present. It is still too early to draw fundamental conclusions on this subject; this is a relatively new issue. However, I repeat that in the big picture that must be borne in mind, it is still possible that we are moving towards visa liberalisation between the European Union and Russia. This will basically be a new situation for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U64	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U65	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive and interesting response. Do I understand you correctly if I sum up your performance with what you have just repeated: that you believe so firmly in the forthcoming visa-free regime between the European Union and Russia that I do not see the point of spending on the introduction of a simplified cross-border regime?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U66	Spending is not the only reason why we are not now eager to support the option that has been made in Latvia and Poland, as well as in the Kaliningrad region. There are more of these arguments. After all, it is interesting, based on Latvian experience, to see how much it is actually possible to control the people who are taking advantage of this opportunity. Do they use this permission for the purpose? How do they adhere to this term of 30 or a maximum of 50 kilometres? Will this procedure lead to a 'formal internal migration' in Russia in order to make it easier to enter the European Union? Jne. We can't say all that yet, but these are the question marks. However, the broader question relates to what I have already mentioned. It relates to the attitude of being in favour of such a more universal free movement, rather than trying to define it in the case of a small country like Estonia by drawing some other internal lines. With regard to visa liberalisation between the European Union and Russia, this process has taken time and will certainly take quite a long time. After all, visa liberalisation negotiations have not yet been reached; they have not begun. In essence, the visa dialogue is currently taking place in order to prepare these negotiations between the European Union and Russia. To predict when this time will come, there will be no more clear timelines for the first time. So the main arguments are the same as in 2008 when this topic was relatively fresh under discussion. It has not been considered right to draw any line in Estonia that some Estonian citizens have more rights than others. Secondly, the question of controllability. And thirdly, it is not possible to foresee what processes this will lead to in Russian areas bordering our country if some citizens have a greater right to travel to the European Union than others.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U67	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U68	Minister, thank you very much. You are scaring one thing: that if a certain group of people gets visa-free, the infrastructure will not withstand the burden and there will be queues at border crossings. But you know there are queues where you can sign up electronically. Secondly, if there are border crossing permits, this is a simplified border crossing. People can get permission from the lists and cross the border in an accelerated fashion. You also say that the Latvian state cannot yet be set an example, because very little time has passed since the introduction of their new regime. But now, for several years, the issue has been overlooked, but the Estonian state has not tried to do anything to switch to a simpler regime. Aren't we going to miss Latvia very much? All of this has a dampening effect on the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U69	Apart from the economy, there are other important things in life, such as security and security. To draw very narrow and unambiguous conclusions now, I say once again, I think it is early. Similarly, we could ask why such a country, which is also very closely associated with Russia, like Finland, has not gone that way. Why do we not ask why Finland has not made this decision? They must have had very strong reasons for this. Finland, of course, has the longest border with Russia in our region, which could have a major impact on the economy of this region, yet Finland has not started these talks. We should take a look at this side, too. As far as border infrastructure is concerned, neither the simplified border crossing arrangements mean that border checks are not carried out. It's still happening! The simplification is that people do not have to apply for a visa, they can cross the border on the basis of a special card, but border control is always the case. If you think these people are almost out of control, or that it doesn't take any time at all, it's not like that. I am saying that border controls may take even more time for these people, because they are subject to initial border checks, while those who travel with a visa have been carried out in the course of the visa procedure. It is exactly the same that, if we ever talk about a future visa-free regime for the European Union and Russia, then there are people in Estonia who imagine that this will eliminate any control that will cross the border when travelling. It's not like that! In fact, the centre of gravity of the checks on passengers is shifting from the visa procedure to the border, which means that the greater responsibility lies with the individual border guard who decides whether or not to allow a person to enter the country. I repeat: if there is a simplified procedure for border crossings and people have these cards, this does not mean that there is no control. If a person has been issued this card, but he is doing something bad, and he is put on a list of people who are excluded from entering the country, then border guards must identify it. So, in this sense, simplified border crossings do not bring great advantages compared to normal procedures. People have special cards, they don't have to apply for a visa, but border checks are still there. I am therefore confident that the pressure on our border infrastructure will increase. Otherwise, it would make no sense to talk about this new regime if people did not travel more as a result.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U70	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U71	Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, The visa waiver agreement between Russia and the European Union has been discussed for quite a long time. One of the obstacles is that Estonia and Russia have not concluded a border agreement. Is there anything to do with them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U72	No, these two things have nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U73	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U74	For Finnish and Russian trains crossing the border, this system has been operating successfully for years. We have been proposing this on the Estonian side for years. So far, the management of the matter has mostly come back to a lack of resources. Now a few trains have begun to cross more borders, perhaps the Ministry of the Interior and the Police and Border Guard Board are ready to discuss this again with their Russian partners. A few years ago, when this proposal was first raised, only the train to Tallinn was alone. It wasn't enough reason to spend extra money to put moving brigades on a train. Now two additional trains have been set up in St Petersburg, and perhaps it gives more of the critical mass from which it makes sense to make additional costs. But yes, first, our police and border guards must be prepared to do so. If this exists, of course, it must also be agreed with Russia that the system should also be implemented on the other side of the border. Indeed, there is an example of the border between Finland and Russia. There are very successful checks on moving trains, thus saving almost two hours of driving time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U75	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague, Inara Luigas, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U76	Ladies and gentlemen, I was hoping the Foreign Minister would give more substantive answers, but it happened that all these answers remained a little superficial. I would like to remind you once again why such an inquiry was made and what the relevant regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council is telling us. This regulation gives the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation the opportunity to conclude a bilateral agreement on the organisation of border traffic. One of the main pillars of this agreement is that the European Union is interested in cooperating with neighbouring countries and not being hindered by borders. If you listen to the Foreign Minister's answers, it will be the feeling that we are looking at what Latvia is doing, and because the infrastructure is not carrying out, we do not need many border crossings. Looks like all our business is extremely sluggish. The Prime Minister also often stresses from this speech chair that we are over the recession and that our economy is on the rise. The Prime Minister could also come to South-East Estonia more often and watch ordinary South-East Estonians live along the border. The transition to a simplified border crossing would give the South-Easters the opportunity to communicate more freely with the neighbouring country. This would also give them much greater opportunities to establish partnerships and economic recovery. If we want our economy to recover, that is one solution. It is a simplified border crossing that would give us a greater opportunity to do so. I think that both the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government of the Republic will have to work harder to achieve this. It is extremely unfortunate that the Government of the Republic decided not to open negotiations with Russia. However, I hope that our government will take the example of Latvia and realise that simplified border crossings will provide greater opportunities for people's development, social communication and economic relations. During the week before last, the Riigikogu was visited by the parliamentary group of the Latvian Seim. There was also talk of simplified border crossings. I've been lucky to read this contract. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that a simplified border crossing does not mean that checks are not carried out at border crossings, but that, even in the case of permits, people are checked, and perhaps even more. I believe that is not the case. If the people's background is normally checked when a visa is issued, when the simplified procedure applies, people will be checked when they are going to apply for a permit. In Latvia, this authorisation is granted to all residents living within a 30 km radius of the border and having lived there for at least three years. Before they get permission, they have to put themselves on a list of border officials from two countries. Certain criteria also apply to entries on these lists. Am I entitled to extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U77	Yes, it is. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U78	Then why doesn't our government want to do the same? It is very convenient to simply be in the government and say that we have such reasons, and we cannot discuss this further. There are two ways. Could create all kinds of barriers for the South-Easters, people living in the area. These barriers are created in a row and in a row. One missed opportunity is that there has not been a simplified transition to border crossings. Of course, you can manage the country differently. You can collect all the taxes because of the obstacles and tell them that we are now the good uncles and aunts, that we give you social benefits and keep living. Believe me, the opportunities stemming from EU directives and regulations give people the opportunity to cope better on their own. You don't have to be in the hands of the country everywhere, the government doesn't have to work so hard. It simply needs to do the necessary groundwork and create opportunities for free movement of people. Regulations and directives exist for this purpose. I very much hope that the Government of the Republic will, however, start negotiations on a smoother organisation of border crossings with Russia. We Southeasters are looking forward to this and we believe that today's debate on this topic will not be the last one in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U79	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U80	The next question is the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Enn Eesmaa, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korbi, Mailis Repsi, Eldar Efendiev and Tarmo Tamme. a Request for information on the language of vocational education and training submitted on 20 June 2004 (No 354). My colleague Yana Toomi of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U81	Madam President! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, We have a very brief question, at the end of which there are nine quite large questions. In June, the Riigikogu passed the Vocational Training Institution Act, which provides, among other things, that the language of vocational education is Estonian. According to the Vocational Education Institution Act, from 2020 on the basis of comprehensive school, vocational training must take place in Estonian. It is known that the transition to upper secondary school in Estonian has caused major problems. I'm not going to describe them all for a long time. We want to ask the Minister for Education Aaviksoo what it is planned to do so that such problems do not arise again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U82	Thank you very much, Mr Toom. Please ask the speaker to respond to the honourable Minister for Education and Science.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U83	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good questioners! Indeed, the adopted VET Act states that by 1 September 2020, a little less than seven years later, vocational secondary education in Estonia should be given in Estonian. I stress that this is about vocational secondary education, not all vocational training. Let me say a few words for the introduction before I begin to answer these nine questions. More than 20 years after regaining independence, we have made very good progress in teaching the national language in basic education. Although it would be premature to say that we have no problems, it is quite clear that the knowledge of the Estonian language or, in the current context, the knowledge of the national language has improved considerably. This means not only state language skills in technical terms, but also the ability to participate in the working or political life of Estonian society. Nor is it less important that the pay gap between people in different mother tongues and the unemployment gap is narrowed. National language skills are most important in all respects so that citizens with different home languages and Estonian residents are on equal terms. In this sense, the efforts made by the education system to improve national language skills and integration, not only in technical terms, but also in functional terms, in order for students to learn in the same school, in the same class and integration to be more broadly based in school, are essential for the homogeneity of Estonian society and the self-realization of fellow citizens. It has not gone perhaps as quickly as we have hoped, but I am glad that it has been done peacefully and constructively. The situation has improved year after year. Although rapid achievement of the objectives is also an important objective, I think that long-term planning, determined work and public support have been appropriate. A gradual transition has justified itself. But now I'm gonna answer the questions. I will try to answer these questions quite briefly. The first question: 'How many students today receive vocational and secondary education in Estonian and how many in Russian? ' Vocational secondary education was completed in the previous academic year (the latest official data as at 10 November) by 14152 students, of which 10677 students studied in Estonian or on the basis of the Estonian language curriculum, and 3475 students studied in Russian, thus approximately one quarter, or 25%. It may be important to add that there is a single state school in Estonia or a state vocational training institution with only Russian language of instruction, this is the Sillamäe Vocational School. There are eight schools with both Estonian and Russian language of instruction: Ida-Virumaa Vocational Education Centre, Narva Vocational Training Centre, Tallinn Lasnamäe Mechanics School, Tallinn Polytechnic, Tallinn Service School, Tallinn Industrial Education Centre, Tallinn Transport School and Tallinn Building School. As you can see from this list, Sillamäe is only taught in Russian (music, it is a very good vocational training institution) and in Russian it is also taught at the Vocational Training Centre in Narva, Ida-Virumaa Vocational Education Centre and Tallinn vocational training institutions. The number of schools providing only Estonian-language education has constantly increased. In Tartu and Pärnumaa, Vocational Education Centres have only moved to Estonian-language education, although some time ago they also offered Russian-language education. So gradually, every year a few percent, the number of vocational students studying in Russian-speaking study groups has decreased. There was about a third of them, and now this figure has decreased to a quarter. Such an evolutionary process has always taken place. The second question: 'How much of the overall volume of vocational training is covered by Russian-language curricula? ' The students studying in Russian, as I said, are about 25%. In the case of curricula, the relationship is even more in favour of the Estonian language. We have a total of 747 vocational training programmes, of which 76 are in Russian, or just over 10%. The number of curricula as a whole should decrease in Estonia as their number is overrated. The reform of vocational education and training institutions, which, together with the adoption of the VET Act, was launched and, as part of the transition to Estonian-language vocational secondary education, plans to reduce the number of vocational training programmes to around 550, so that they are 200 fewer than they are today. This is a further development, but not in one day, but evolutionaryly in three years. There are specializations where only Russian-language vocational training is available: the chemical processing and mining curriculum in the fields of chemical processes technology and mining offered at the Vocational Education Centre in Ida-Virumaa and the Vocational School in Sillamäe. Question 3: "What is the proficiency of the Estonian language of the teaching staff of vocational schools? How many of them are able to teach their subjects in Estonian today? " There are about 2,200 teachers in VET institutions, 383 of them in Russian. According to studies carried out by Turku Research AS in 2009, 68% of teachers teaching in Russian already had an Estonian certificate of proficiency, mostly a B-level certificate, about four years ago. 32% don't have that certificate, 68% do. 14% of teachers teach some subjects in Estonian to study in Russian already. In 2009, 41% of teachers teaching subjects in Russian were generally prepared to teach in Estonian and 25% were willing to teach in Estonian any of their subjects or most of them. The same study identified students' interest in Estonian-language learning. According to the survey, two thirds of students, more specifically 65%, acknowledged the need to study more in Estonian at school. At present, Saar Poll OÜ is doing a study that should provide background material on what further steps should be taken to make the transition in the coming seven years a success. Not only are specific steps or methods examined, but rather attitudes among people involved in school as well as among others. To sum up, half to two thirds of teachers currently teaching in Russian are ready for this transition, with the remaining third probably more substantial work to be done. It is true that within seven years, quite a large number of them leave the vocational education system for objective reasons by retiring. This development must also be taken into account. Question 4: How do we plan to increase the proportion of such professionals in the future? ' I'll stop at it. Part of the problem of ensuring that there are teachers in vocational training institutions is actually exactly the same as in Estonian-language curricula. It is not easy to set up vocational education and training institutions with teachers and vocational teachers. The reason for this is relatively simple: wages offered outside the education system are even better here than those offered outside school for people working in general education. We work hard on this task. There is nothing else to say here but that the debate on the state budget is yet another step ahead. This year, too, we will raise the minimum wage for teachers in general education schools by more than 10% (maybe we will be able to increase this percentage even further when discussing the state budget), but it is just as important to improve wage conditions in all vocational training institutions, regardless of the language of teaching or learning. We will pay attention to this too. In addition, at the end of September at the Ministry, the action plan "The transition to Estonian language of study in Vocational Secondary Education 2014" was completed, although it has not yet been confirmed, but where further training is provided, further education of Estonian language is provided, in the Estonian language environment, and in the implementation of integrated subject and language learning. There are quite a number of these measures. A little later, I'll get some money. Question 5: "What is the concrete plan of the changeover? Should vocational schools, for example, begin teaching one subject each year in Estonian? ' I'll make sure my time is ticking fast, so I'll give you a shorter answer, you can specify the questions later. A decree has been prepared to determine some of the essential aspects of this transition. First of all, what does it mean to be an Estonian language of instruction? Exactly the same as in upper secondary school: at least 60% of the studies should take place in Estonian. So teaching is not entirely in Estonian, but at least 60% of it is in Estonian. Every year, the share of Estonian-language learning is expected to increase by 20%, i.e. 36 accounting points. We create some compulsory modules, in particular to highlight career planning and other general competences that are not narrowly professional. Finally, all institutions have an obligation to draw up action plans. These plans are almost complete, but not formally established. I've already told you about the research, the results of the research show that these plans can be corrected. Question 6: "What is the opportunity for a vocational school that wants to establish a language of instruction other than Estonian? ' The decision is unambiguous: in a state vocational training institution, the vocational secondary education curriculum is in Estonian. There is no such exception as for general education schools here. As far as other vocational education programmes are concerned, there is the freedom for school holders to choose, not to mention private schools, where this freedom is even greater. Question 7: "What is the Ministry's assessment of the cost of the transition to vocational education in Estonian (preparation of teaching literature and curricula, retraining of teachers, language courses, etc.)? 'Since 2004, EUR 750000 was allocated in the first period and EUR 2007-2012. EUR 870000 in 2008 and EUR 330000 in the coming years are planned each year. This amount may be considered large or small, but such resources are planned for the transition in all years to come. The eighth question: 'What is the Ministry's prognosis of how much vocational school teachers will be forced to leave work in 2020 as a result of the transition to Estonian-language education? ' I believe that such a compulsion is marginal. It is estimated that there are 189 teachers in this category. About one third of them will retire during this period. Given that teachers are top specialists, they should not be overwhelmed by the development of existing language skills or the acquisition of Estonian for a period of seven years. The Ministry of Education therefore does not plan specific measures to deal with people who cannot cope with these demands. Question 9: "What kind of educational opportunities will be left after 2020 for those who are not yet able to study in Estonian after graduating from primary school? ' I don't think there are students like that. Nine years of primary school in the Republic of Estonia must provide sufficient national language skills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U84	Thank you very much, Minister. Any questions? Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U85	Madam President! Dear Minister, I don't know if I heard wrong, I have to ask these numbers. You said that about 25% of students study in Estonian. We have lecturers around 2,000, 380 of whom are taught in Russian. Let me get this straight. 20% of the teachers teach 70% of the students.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U86	You obviously didn't get me right. Today, 25% of vocational students are studying in Russian. There are 2,200 teachers who teach Russian or 383 lessons in Russian.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U87	No further questions. Thank you once again, Minister for Education and Science. Colleagues want to negotiate. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U88	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I've been in vocational school for five years. It was in the late 1980s, I taught Estonian there. Since the same school, the headmaster of the 8th Vocational School of Narva, was also an Estonian teacher, I sometimes asked him what I was paid for. I didn't really understand that much, especially when it came to specific groups. He replied exactly as stated in the book of a very good and humorous English writer, the idea is more or less the same. Tom Sharpe's novel 'Wilt' answers the question that a teacher keeps children in class so they don't make a crook on city streets. However, I continued to work there and did so quite successfully. I have a nice souvenir at home, a green-colored cabinet with a Soviet coat of arms. I received a letter of honor when a group of my students got the first place in the Estonian Olympics. But when you look at the children who have come to the vocational school and come, there was no hope of secondary education in Estonian at the time, and there is no hope of secondary education in Estonian. I have this experience, for example. One summer, I took a group of male gangsters, of course, that is absurd in itself, in the vicinity of Vinni's sovkhoz near Rakvere, so that they could learn the Estonian language in any way, whether or not they would learn the language. For two months they lived there and worked with Estonians. I was expecting some kind of breakthrough. But when we left, it was all the locals who spoke great Russian. There was nothing we could do about it. Who are we talking about right now? In Narva schools in the year before last, the final examination of basic school in Estonian produced 49 points out of 100. Last year, this result decreased by two more points to 47. This 49 or 47 points is the mathematical mean. There are many children who get 89 or 90 points and whose language skills are quite high. But who are the children who make the average score 47 or 49 points? These are the ones who get 10, 15 or 20 points on the final exam, and that's a good thing. Gymnasium's closed to them. They don't have a chance. They have no other way, they go to vocational school, but there awaits the same surprise: education in Estonian again. How do you think a child who received 10, 15 or 20 points in school can complete secondary education, and we are talking about a rather modest level of B1? As a philologist, I don't think that's possible, it's just another village of Potemkin that the Ministry of Education is building. It goes on exactly as in Latvia, where in many schools 'Hello! 'and 'Bye! ' ' it sounds in Latvian, everything else is in Russian, but it's like learning in Latvian. In many Estonian schools, the stories of teaching in Estonian are exactly the same. The vocational school has two options: either to build a Potemkin village or to lose students. In higher education, it is quite important which school and country you have studied in. What matters is the renomee and prestige of this college you have a diploma from. But it's not in vocational education anymore, the world just doesn't have famous vocational schools, these schools are all the same. The welder is taught in the same way in Narva, St Petersburg and somewhere in Minsk. If there are bandages, that's where the kids go. I am convinced that in recent years a process has begun in Narva. You can laugh about that now, of course, because the figures are really funny. Every year, two, three or four children go from Narva Gymnasium to Ivangorod Gymnasium. Last year there were 12 children, and this year there have been a few more students. It's a secondary school, a high school. However, when it comes to vocational education, there is no limit at all. Why acquire this education and then work in a place where there are about 20 words to be used to exchange thoughts between employees or between employees and boss? What's the point? So one thing is the natural extinction that's happening right now. In Narva, for example, a vocational school was renovated with European money, but this house was never needed. When renovation was started, there were 3,500 students in vocational schools, and today there are 1600 to 1700 students. So one reason is natural loss and the other is caused by the Ministry of Education. We're gonna lose the kids, we're gonna lose the workforce. But the minister is still doing the Estonian thing. Let him be proud of it when this country runs out of young potential workers and taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U89	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U90	Next comes the speech of the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Enn Eesmaa, Valeri Korbi, Mailis Repsi, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Eldar Efendiev and Tarmo Tamme. a Request for information on guidance on the assessment of the child's well-being submitted on 20 June 2004 (No 350). My colleague Yana Toomi of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U91	Madam President! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The inquiry concerns the guidance material commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs from the NGO Family and Children's Advisory Centre for the study of the well-being of children, which is called "Children's well-being tool for child protection workers'. The Ministry of Social Affairs supported the preparation of the handbook with EUR 25000. Of this support of EUR 25000, EUR 5000 was spent on the guide on child welfare assessment and EUR 20000 on guidance material for child protection workers. Guidance material has come under acute criticism from the media, as it is said to be full of substantive errors and produced largely by the copy-paste method, without coordinating with the authors of the works used. According to researchers from the University of Tartu, a guide for social workers can cause more harm than benefits because the method used in the guide is wrong and misleading. In April and June this year, I addressed the Minister with a written question about the guidance material in question. In this question, I focused on this non-profit organisation and on the price and circulation of the guidance material. In his reply to the first written question, the Minister justified the choice made in favour of this non-profit association, inter alia, by a broad network of child protection workers and professionals in that organisation. He added that the guidance material had not appeared in print but was available online. However, it is known that a contract had been concluded between the Ministry and the non-profit association, which clearly stated that this guide had to be printed. On 20 June 2013, at the time of my inquiry, 34 pages of PDF files were on the Internet for EUR 25000. We have four questions. In fact, things have evolved a little, but I hope the Minister will talk about it and read the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U92	Thank you very much, Mr Toom. Minister of Social Affairs of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U93	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will answer questions from eight members of the Riigikogu on guidance material for assessing the child's well-being. The first question: "Did the other representatives of the third sector also have the opportunity to participate in the preparation of this guide? What kind of organizations were they? ' The development plan for children and families for 2012 to 2020 and its implementation plan followed good practice of inclusion. 100 experts were directly involved in the development of the development plan and all interested parties had the opportunity to make proposals on the development plan and the implementation plan. This involvement process was also recognised by the State Chancellery. The development plan for children and families and its implementation plan are public documents coordinated by the relevant ministries and other cooperation partners, including non-profit organisations. The implementation plan sets out the detailed activities of the children's and families' development plan together with the person responsible, the deadline and the budget; all interested parties will be able to familiarise themselves with the planned activities and the possibilities of financing them. Only NGO Family and Children's Advisory Centre expressed an interest in producing the guide material, which submitted a request to the Ministry to receive support for the preparation of the material. The second question: "Which organisations are in this case a wide network of cooperation? ' The Family and Children's Advisory Centre has set up a wide network of child protection workers across Estonia to whom they have provided support services and seminars for several years. It has also set up a network of several non-profit organisations in the House of Children's Interest Protection. The third question: 'The Ministry of Social Affairs has asked the contractor to explain the possible substantive shortcomings of the guidance material. Has the NGO already expressed its views? What are they like? " The Family and Children's Advisory Centre has presented its reasons and views on the substantive shortcomings of the evaluation tool. According to the statement of the non-profit association, copyright issues in the material do not concern the main part of the guide material, but the use of Rosenberg's self-esteem scale. In cooperation with the researcher Helle Pullmann of the University of Tartu, the use of the Rosenberg self-esteem scale is improved in the evaluation tool. Therefore, it is not the evaluation tool that is flawed, but the newspaper article criticised the incorrect reference in the annexes to the evaluation tool. No evaluation tool can harm children on its own. I would point out that the guide for assessing the child's well-being is a material produced by NGO Family and Children's Advisory Centre, which is not mandatory for child protection workers, but additional material that can be used as a tool. Question 4: 'When will the results of the expert analysis be available, which should either confirm or disprove the alleged shortcomings in the quality of the content of the guidance material in question, and what if independent experts confirm that the guide is unfit? ' It is good practice that there is a reliable and legitimate working relationship between partners. If it appears that the recipient of the grant has misused the grant granted to him, the Ministry is, of course, entitled to recover the grant. In the event of a dispute, the infringement of the contract shall be brought before the Court of Justice. Works carried out for the expert's allocation shall be carried out automatically and shall not be ordered each time. However, due to the complaints received, we asked for an expert opinion on this case. On May 30, the Ministry requested an assessment from the Institute of Social Work and Psychology of Tallinn University and the Institute of Sociology and Social Policy of the University of Tartu. So far, no substantive feedback has been received from the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U94	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's get to the questions. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U95	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I know something about writing and publishing books. Is it true that EUR 25000 was paid, but 34 pages were received online, mostly by a copy-paste method? Do you personally not find the price of EUR 735 per page drawn up using this method a little strange, all the more so given the criticism that comes from the university about this material?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U96	Thank you. If you ask me what seems strange to me personally, there are plenty of these things in the world. Lately, I find it particularly strange that my hometown spends more on ads than on substantive activities. But that's it. I think you actually want to stay focused on this subject, so I suggest you be very precise. Surely the weight of one document or another cannot be measured only by the number of pages. I also point out that the amounts mentioned in the article of the Eesti Päevaleht were not accurate. If I remember correctly, at the beginning of the summer, we dealt with the correct statements, clarifications and excuses. Indeed, the newspaper article referred to the price of the valuation guide as EUR 25000, but in fact the price of this document was EUR 5000. If I were you, I wouldn't rush to blame anyone for plagiarism or the copy-paste method, as you said. If you are such a strong expert in this area that you dare to say it, you should certainly do so in writing and base your accusations. Like I said, the Ministry of Social Affairs asked me to check the suspicions. If something as severe as you put forward in your question really should come to light, then of course measures must be taken. But as long as none of this has been identified, I'd be careful of the oral accusations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U97	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U98	Thank you, Madam President. I have before me a letter from Auditor General Alar Karis, which clearly states that the report on the use of the Ministry's allocation was compared with the contract and that there were a number of differences in the activities planned and actually carried out. For example, a handbook for child protection workers has been drawn up to a much smaller extent than was promised and has not been printed. Trainings are also organised on a smaller scale and later than agreed. Similarly, the costs of the project do not correspond to those agreed in the contract. According to the Treasury, all the contractual money has been paid out to a non-profit organisation, although this should not have been done. Are you familiar with the position of Auditor General and what are you going to do? I understand you have a lot of work to do, and I think you really don't know what's going on in your ministry. Do I have to forward these materials to you so that you can see for yourself that one proofreading page cost 20 euros according to the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U99	Thank you. If only it were that the biggest problem in Estonia's social field was that one proofreading page had cost 20 euros, then the heart of the Minister of Social Affairs would be satisfied. However, it is true that in the social field, due to the size and complexity of this area, there are still issues that need to be dealt with. There are also issues that are appropriate to be discussed in Parliament. I am grateful for all the questions you raise here in the Riigikogu when discussing social issues. It's important. If you want to discuss the drafting of a document in detail, it is, of course, your freedom, and as a minister, I am obliged to take part in this debate. But once again, if you have any specific factual complaints, please put them in writing and we will definitely check them. This is done by experts who follow the line and analyse whether or not something has been done wrong. But in this Chamber, perhaps it would be practical to talk about issues that actually affect people's lives and health. Let us focus on the more important issues. But, of course, if you would like to continue, I will be happy to continue this debate as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U100	Thank you very much. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U101	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You're trying not to answer questions with some persistent perseverance. After all, the previous questioner clearly quoted the statements of the National Audit Office, i.e. the text taken from the Act of the National Audit Office, which referred to quite gross violations. However, you still insist that we complain in writing. Will the complaints made in writing by the National Audit Office be insufficient to draw conclusions from them, and will the members of the Riigikogu have to rewrite them to you? Perhaps you will answer how you feel about and what will be done to them by the National Audit Office. I would like to talk specifically about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U102	I do not see from this remote control which document Mrs Toom refers to, but I am quite sure that it is a letter, not an act, and it is not so much a reference to infringements as a transmission of information. But we take all letters that come from either the National Audit Office or members of the Riigikogu with full seriousness. If there is really something to complain about, of course, I have no personal interest or passion for one or another of the jobs ordered quite a long time ago to protect in any way. But I find it inappropriate for one job or another to be attacked with title level precision, to be accused of plagiarism, while the experts who have been asked for a meaningful opinion have not pointed out anything like this. I would like the criticism, if there is one and there must always be one, to be as substantive and as concrete as possible. This led to my request to make complaints in writing, because then it will also be possible to examine the specific claim in concrete terms. I think that if we discuss some details in this Chamber, it won't take us very far, but, of course, we can discuss them here too.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U103	Thank you. There are no further questions to the Minister on this subject. I'm opening negotiations. Does Yana Toom agree with Mikhail Stalnukhin speaking first? Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U104	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Once you took office, you stood in front of this hall and answered the questions. Viktor, I think you and I shared the impression that you look at how good a speaker, fantastic. It seemed unlikely that such a miracle could have been born of natural intelligence. For example, I assumed, Mr. Minister, that you had completed courses somewhere. Your answers were very good and very well structured. Even though we're from different camps, I admired your logic and brilliance. I like people who can speak well. But how vulgar you've become now! I asked a question, quite specific. I wanted to know if the price I mentioned was normal, in your opinion. The inquiry clearly states that the guidance material has come under acute criticism, as it is alleged to be full of substantive errors and produced largely by the copy-paste method but not in coordination with the authors of the works used. This is something Mr Toom will discuss at length. Why not refer to when I was wrong when there are two documents and this price applies specifically to these 34 pages? I'm just guessing, I realize it might be different. What's with all the sneaking away? Really, I'm disappointed. When you became minister, you were a brilliant talker. What happened to you? This seems to prove the widespread view that being a minister usually ends in decline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U105	I'm asking for a vocalist, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U106	Madam President! Dear Minister, I am truly sorry that our debate has taken place in such an unconstructive atmosphere. I do not agree with you that if the proofreading of one page of the Estonian text costs 20 euros, it is a small thing. It's a big deal. It's called corruption. But since you are probably not familiar with the letter of the Auditor General, for the sake of the verbatim report, I allow myself to quote the Auditor General's reply to the written question of a member of the Riigikogu. I actually asked for a number of things. Firstly, how this is possible and how the Auditor General appreciates that the Ministry of Social Affairs grants a non-profit organisation EUR 25000 and does not organise a public procurement. Your point of view is now I realized that this is your position, I actually thought it was an official's position, because I know very well that the answers are being prepared for you, and the minister is not able to go into every piece of paper he signs, that it was a grant granted to a non-profit organisation, and that this non-profit organisation happened to do some kind of work for this support. Thus, the Auditor General finds: 'The Ministry of Social Affairs and NGO Children's and Families' Advisory Centre has signed an agreement in May 2012 to allocate EUR 25000. The purpose of the work is to develop, print, and develop and present a guide on the evaluation of child welfare for child protection workers, in accordance with point 3 of the Agreement on the use of the provision concluded. It is clear from paragraphs 7 and 8 of the Agreement that the Ministry of Social Affairs aims to acquire the rights attached to these instructions. This is indicated by the fact that the contractor must transfer all intellectual property rights relating to instructions to the contracting authority for the consideration provided for in the contract and for an indefinite period. The Ministry of Social Affairs also has the right to use and change instructions as it sees fit. In view of the context of the contract, it can be concluded that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the NGO Children's and Families' Advisory Centre are considered as contractors. Such contractual terms are also in accordance with the general terms and conditions of employment contracts approved by the Chancellor of Social Affairs of the Ministry of Social Affairs of 16.07.2012. This refers to the possibility that the Ministry of Social Affairs has concluded a contract with the characteristics of taking up a job in order to develop guidelines. If the Ministry enters into a contract to order a service, this is subject to a public procurement procedure. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U107	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no call. The debate on this point is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U108	The next question to be heard is an inquiry by Viktor Vassilyev, Peeter Võsa, Aadu Musta, Tarmo Tamme, Valeri Korbi, Eldar Efendijev and Yana Toomi, Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas, on 20 June 2013. I ask Viktor Vassilyev to speak on behalf of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U109	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, We submitted this inquiry on 20 June. Since then, a lot of water has flowed into the sea, and during that time, a lot should have changed, but many things still stand at the point where they were then. It all actually starts because we're about to celebrate. Nearly a year ago, a health care strike began. To end this strike, the Health Insurance Fund Council in November 2012 decided that the following conditions will be taken into account when establishing the list of health services of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, which will enter into force on 1 March 2013. First of all, in the case of a first outpatient visit, the working time component of the doctor and nurse is increased by five minutes and the corresponding salary component is increased by the price of the first outpatient visit. Second, the bed day allowed the doctor and nurse to increase the working time component for four minutes and 17 minutes respectively, and again to increase the wage component at the cost of the bed day. The introduction of the wage component was agreed as follows: doctors 7 euros 60 cents per hour, nurses 4 euros 20 cents per hour and carers 2 euros 40 cents per hour. The same conditions were laid down in a collective agreement with health professionals. On 7 June 2013, the Health Insurance Fund Board proposed to amend the regulation of the Minister of Social Affairs and to extend the working time of a doctor and nurse in the case of primary outpatient visits and the calculation of the bed day in accordance with the collective agreement. The price caps for services should also have increased, but they did not increase, as the wage component corresponding to the working time component was not increased at marginal prices. In this context, we have put five questions to the Minister for Social Affairs. Firstly, why are the conditions of the collective agreement not met? Secondly, why does the price limit in the list of health services not cover all the costs necessary for the provision of health care, as required by the Health Insurance Act? Thirdly, if the minimum price for a specialist's first outpatient visit is EUR 15 32 cents, but the standard cost is EUR 15 60 cents, then therefore 28 cents are missing. What, then, has this healthcare been reduced, which resource is lacking in the price of the service? We also asked about care care treatment, which covers only 78% of the standard costs calculated on the basis of the data provided by the reference hospitals. Which service component is missing in care care? If the marginal prices are lower than the standard costs, this means that the provision of services does not involve all the planned costs, i.e. the service is provided in a reduced amount. When can we expect the service to be provided as planned, along with all the necessary components, i.e. people will receive the service they need in full? We want answers to these questions. Seven members of the Central Party Group have signed the inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U110	Thank you very much. I'm asking for Secretary of State for Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will answer your questions. Question No 1: 'Why are the conditions of the collective agreement not met and the unpaid wage component at the primary outpatient visit and bed-day limit when increasing the working time component of the doctor and nurse? ' I believe that today neither the questioners nor anyone else have any doubt that the Health Insurance Fund has complied with what was agreed in the collective agreement and, on the basis of this, changed the rates for the initial admission of a specialist and the bed day, on the basis of the principles of amending the list of health services laid down in the legislation and the methodology for calculating the fee. I would remind you that in the meantime there has been a meeting of the Health Insurance Fund Council, where a member of the Riigikogu and all the other members of the Health Insurance Fund Council unanimously supported these decisions. It is also known that the limit price for the bed day of the nurse's and midwife's independent reception and care care is to be discussed at the meeting of the Health Insurance Fund Council on 1 November. Question 2: The threshold price indicated in the list of health services under the Ravi Insurance Act must cover all the costs necessary for the provision of health care, except for research and training for students and students. In order to calculate the standard costs necessary for the provision of health services, the respective methodology has been established by regulation of the Minister of Social Affairs under the Health Insurance Act. On what legal basis does the list of health services set the price caps at lower levels than the standard costs calculated on the basis of the resources needed to provide the services according to the methodology? ' The legal basis for setting the limit prices for health care services is derived from §§ 30 to 32 of the Health Insurance Act and from the implementing legislation laid down on the basis of these provisions, namely government and ministerial regulations. When calculating or changing the price limit, in addition to the prices based on standard service costs, account must be taken of the cost-effectiveness of health care services, the need for the service to society and the consistency with national health policies and the compliance with the financial possibilities of health insurance. Let me put it this way: it is very difficult to say today why seven or eight years ago this methodology was achieved. My conviction is that we should step by step bring standard prices and marginal prices into line. At the same time, representatives of the Association of Doctors and Sisters have stressed that equalising the standard and marginal prices has not been a requirement for them to negotiate a collective agreement, but many of them have privately told me that they too consider it important. We shouldn't confuse two things. The negotiations on the collective agreement of doctors and nurses naturally included wage demands as well as working time demands. A specific requirement was that a certain number of minutes be added to the reception in all disciplines. That, in my opinion, is not an issue. These minutes have been added exactly as desired. In the course of later discussions, I think we have reached a fairly common understanding that the differential between the marginal price and the standard price should be reduced, but this should be reduced in order to still review the methodology of how one or the other figure has been reached. I think that we are mature for this, and I hope that I will now say correctly by heart, that in 2006, when the Minister of Social Affairs chair had your party partner, the rules will be modernised and better aligned with the interests of real life, doctors and patients. If you will allow me, I will ask the third and fourth questions and the answers to them in a row, because both questions concern the calculation of marginal prices: 'The minimum price for the first outpatient visit of a specialist is 15.32, the standard cost 15.60. What kind of resource needed to provide the service has been reduced by EUR 0.28? The situation in care care care is particularly bad, with only 78% of the standard costs covered by the bed-day limit. This poses difficulties in providing quality care and in the well-founded dissatisfaction of patients and their relatives. What kind of resources needed to provide the service have been reduced at price and which activities required to provide the service may not be provided by the healthcare provider to patients with inpatient care? " Surely you cannot fail to do what is necessary, so a good questioner does not have to worry. But I'm going to explain this in more detail. On 1 March s. a the current list of health services of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund increased the wage component at all marginal prices with an activity-specific description and added a financial cover based on the collective agreement. The appointment of the primary outpatient and psychiatrist was extended by five minutes, as well as a financial cover. Within bed day, the doctor's working hours were increased by an average of four minutes and the nurse's working hours were extended by 17 minutes, according to a methodology regulation. Four health care providers of the hospital in Northern Estonia, Tartu University Hospital, Pärnu Hospital and Rakvere Hospital provided the data necessary for analysing the workload of health care personnel. The results of the analysis of these data were discussed with the representatives of the reference hospitals and due to the actual workload of the medical staff, the working hours of the doctor and nurse were added to the bed days in a differentiated manner (just differentiated between specialties). On average, the doctor's four minutes of work and the nurse's 19 minutes of work were added to the money at marginal prices. Limit prices have been set in accordance with the legislative framework and the decision of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Board, taking into account the financial possibilities of health insurance. On the basis of the above, no answer can be given to the question of which resources have been reduced at the marginal price of an outpatient visit or care care day. At the same time, you know that, in agreement with doctors, nurses and hospitals, the Health Insurance Fund decided to change the starting point. September 23, s. a the decree of the Minister of Social Affairs, which entered into force, adds the number of minutes required by doctors and nurses, not by distinction between specialties, but without exception to all specialties. This is done in a coherent manner in all disciplines. We agreed in essence that, as a matter of priority, a collective agreement must be properly implemented, which, I think, is a reasonable starting point in itself, and, as a next step, an analysis of what professions the real burden on how many additional ones will be required. These proposals come from the collaboration of doctors, nurses and hospital representatives. I believe that these proposals will not only make the burden on the professions more precise and fairer, but will also help bring limit prices and standard prices closer to each other. The implementation of these agreements alone requires quite a lot of extra money from the Health Insurance Fund's budget. At the same time, it was not possible, at least this year, to increase wages, reduce workload and change the rules that had been in force since 2006. We will take a joint look at the Health Insurance Fund in the Council, perhaps next year or the next year, it will be possible, step by step, to update the rules that have ever been made. Personally, I think it's more reasonable. I do not rule out the need to adjust both the marginal and the standard prices. It may be necessary to clarify them in one direction and in another, but, in principle, I think, in the interests of transparency of the methodology, it would certainly be necessary for these prices to overlap. Question 5: 'If the marginal prices are lower than the standard costs, this means that the provision of services does not involve all the costs foreseen and the service is provided at a reduced rate. When can we expect citizens to receive standard - or full - health care, rather than current savings care? " There is no saving treatment in Estonia. Since 2006, the Health Insurance Fund has systematically dealt with the modernisation of standard prices on a professional basis, during which the description of services in the two specialties has been updated on average annually. In the terms of the updated services, the standard price is usually equal to the marginal price. I also mention that the budget of the Health Insurance Fund will increase by 8.5% next year compared to the 2013 budget. I just happened to hear a radio show called Kuku, where economic experts said that a comprehensive growth of 4.3% in the budget is impressive, it's very fast. This is probably very fast in the context of Europe and the world in 2014, especially compared to other countries. If the budget of the Health Insurance Fund grows twice as fast as the national budget on average, it should not be seen as an opportunity, but as a clear signal from the government that health is important to us and we want to improve its financing as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U112	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U113	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The collective agreement has been concluded between employers and employees, meaning it has been concluded by the Hospital Association and the medical staff. The Association of Hospitals has also drawn the attention of the Ministry of Social Affairs, like the Professional Association of Health Professionals, the Association of Physicians and the Association of Nurses, to the fact that the agreement still mentions all the doctors' appointments and the bed days of the inpatient, including care, and also mentions the salary component, not just the addition of minutes. This is the third time the hospital union has been pushed back into the tank. They won't be able to honour the contract and appeal to the Ministry, but it looks like nothing's gonna change this year. Is that so?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U114	Thank you. I see you had a question written before you listened to my answers here. I drew attention in my reply to the fact that you and I, as members of the Health Insurance Board at the meeting on 1 November, will certainly be discussing this issue. I don't think anyone's been pushed into a tank in any way. The parties involved in the various negotiations may remember the details slightly differently, although everyone probably remembers that the care treatment was not specifically mentioned in the agreement. However, this does not mean that if we still have opportunities, we should not and should not treat care in the same way as active therapy. As you will remember, not as a result of anyone's deliberate error at all, but as a result of human negligence, for example, the independent visits of nurses were excluded from the text of the original agreement and, therefore, from the original offer of a health insurance fund. After the attention was drawn to this, we once again decided in consensus in the Health Insurance Fund's Council that, of course, if anything is overlooked, we would put it in there and we would settle this too, even though the nurses' independent visits are less than the doctor's visits. We will probably be able to make the following decisions by consensus at the Health Insurance Fund Council. You have been exposed to health care, but there are certainly those who do not know exactly what we are talking about here and what this context is. Therefore, it may be interesting to note that, if the list of 1781 services is in total, the marginal prices are lower than the standard prices for 380 services and higher for 323 services, while in the remaining cases the standard and marginal prices are in line. In one fifth of cases, the marginal prices are lower than the standard prices, higher in one fifth of cases and equal in three fifths of cases. I hope that in this working group, where representatives of hospitals and doctors are discussing the workload and standards, all or at least as many prices as possible will be achieved so that the methodology can also be understood by people who do not come into contact with health care arrangements every day. It's such a big dream. I hope that, in the coming years, its fulfillment will not be unrealistic at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U115	Thank you very much. There are no further questions, and I will open negotiations. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U116	Madam President! Yes, this question is indeed specific and all the good people who read the verbatim may not understand all the subtleties. By the way, a lot of healthcare professionals know that this issue is being discussed today, and they also read the verbatim report. So, the collective agreement. However, it is agreed in the collective agreement that the salary component will be added. I would remind you that the doctor's strike was last October, and it's been quite a while. Medical staff had a perfectly legitimate expectation that the wage component would still be regulated within the services during this year, but not in the way that the Health Insurance Fund agreed now that things would be fixed until next year. There's still time for the next year, but you have to live today, now, and here. I also recall that the Minister for Social Affairs has already reported on several occasions this year that things are in order. At the same time, the Association of Hospitals and the Professional Association of Health Care Professionals have repeatedly approached the Ministry of Social Affairs with the same question that the terms of the collective agreement are not fulfilled and things are not in order. Let me remind you a little bit about what's happened. In May, it was discovered that the Minister of Social Affairs and the Health Insurance Fund had not complied with the terms of the collective agreement and had not added four or 17 minutes to all services. It was corn. In June, after a long discussion with the Minister of Social Affairs and the heads of the Health Insurance Fund, the professional associations managed to achieve that the false information was overturned and the Minister of Social Affairs acknowledged that the conditions of the collective agreement were not fully met. Not fully filled.. this means that they have not been filled. On 7 June, the Health Insurance Board decided to amend the regulation of the Minister of Social Affairs in order to comply with the collective agreement. The minister then announced in the press that everything has now been done exactly as requested by the Medical Association. However, the draft regulation's explanatory memorandum confirmed that minutes would be added but prices would not be changed. This is the issue that has always stood up: if a healthcare service pays 100 currency units, including, for example, 30 currency units, and if we increase labour costs, but does not increase the wage cost, which is then reduced within that service, in order to pay more for these minutes. Are there fewer threads or needles or painkillers to provide this service, or whatever the patient is missing and what the medics will not give him? Unfortunately, the debate is ongoing. In July, the Association of Doctors met twice with the Minister of Social Affairs and agreed to change the price of bedday for the nurse's independent reception and care care. On 17 July, it was again said that workers should be changed in accordance with the collective agreement. On 27 August, the Association of Hospitals wrote to the Ministry of Social Affairs that at its meeting on 6 September the Board of the Health Insurance Fund should propose to the Council a retroactive amendment of the bed-day and midwife's admission limit prices. Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U117	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U118	Thank you. Go on. On 6 September, immediately after the Health Insurance Board meeting, the Chairman of the Medical Association asked when the order would be signed. He replied that the signing of the regulation had been suspended and that it was still being discussed. That's how the discussion works. While healthcare workers have suffered from violations of the collective agreement signed with them, they have done something about it. In order to avoid that one party claims that the contract is being violated, the other party claims that everything is in order, the association of doctors has ordered an opinion from the law firm. The lawyer's opinion is that things are not in order at prices and that the contract has been violated. The Doctors' Association has addressed its regional leaders with a letter asking them to collect information on the number of unpaid overtime and exceptional guards not paid (they are called piece surveillance). Looks like we're collecting data, gathering power. Why, a new strike? Is that what we wanted? One and a half years before the strike, the professional association of health professionals, the association of nurses, the association of doctors and several other organisations approached the minister, which was then Hanno Pevkur, and asked them to be planted at the negotiating table. It was delayed, they were looking for who the negotiator would be. Then, for the first time, the tank hospital union, which is essentially just a voluntary organisation of hospital owners, was rejected. For the second time, the Hospital Association was rejected when it signed a contract that it could not fulfil because half of the salary increase was allowed by the Health Insurance Fund, but half had to be paid by the Hospital Association from its own funds. But hospital money is only what they give to provide health care, nothing else they have. Now, for the third time, the Hospitals' Association gets in the tank, doesn't comply with the collective agreement he's signed. The minister is a clean boy because he hasn't signed the contract, and there's a signature from the Hospitals Association. That's how it works, and that's how it stretches. But who is the sufferer? The sufferer is the patient to whom I have now explained this matter so that people can understand what is going on and who is guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U119	Thank you very much. The Minister also wishes to participate in the negotiations. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U120	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! There were so many inaccuracies and mistakes in the last speech that there is no way to reject them. If you really should listen to this debate by the people to whom this issue is important, my sincere recommendation is to contact me directly in case of questions or suggestions. If you contact Viktor Vassilyev, it is likely that a large part of the information would be lost either way. You first brought here a long part of the chronology, some of which were accurate, but some completely inaccurate. I understand why this was inaccurate: you were not present with much of the discussions. I'll go over the details real quick. The collective agreement entered into force on 1 March. The Management Board of the Health Insurance Fund proposed that on average four minutes of working time be added to doctors and 17 minutes of work for nurses, but it proposed that it be differentiated on the basis of actual workload. The Bureau had carried out an in-depth analysis of this issue and proposed such a proposal. Doctors and nurses said that this was not what was agreed and asked for four minutes to be added to the working hours of doctors of all disciplines, and 17 minutes to be added to the working hours of nurses of all disciplines. In addition, the parties pointed out during the work that one or the other specific aspect had not been detailed and should be included as an interpretation of the collective agreement. Specific specialties were taken into account, such as the independent admission of nurses. We had quite a number of in-depth discussions with the Medical Association, the Sisters' Association, the Health Care Professionals' Association and the Hospitals' Association. As a result, as Chairman of the Council, I proposed to the Health Insurance Fund to change the decision and to do as the doctors and nurses wished, perhaps to add exactly the same number of minutes to everyone, not to catch two birds with one filth and to solve the issue of burden and fair time in parallel. We also agreed separately that we would return to the fair distribution of the burden of specialties when a working group involving health professionals and service providers has made proposals on the optimal part of working time at the price of one or another reception or bed day. Next, on my proposal, the Health Insurance Board decided to make a consensual change, including you, Viktor Vassilyev, who voted in favour of it. Everything we've done, we've done together, for good and for bad. I am pleased that you have supported these decisions. I certainly have not received any complaints since then that there would be something wrong with this annex, which we have updated. You also talked about the fact that the Minister's order on some date that you mentioned here was not yet signed. I can tell you it's signed now. It's entered into force, it's okay. There is also no reason to worry about whether hospitals have money to perform the contract. The hospital managers have asked separately and the Hospital Association has confirmed that they do not want the full opening and amendment of the 2013 contracts. EUR 3.5 million, even more than everything we look at together, are provided for in hospital contracts for extra costs of working minutes or workload alone. Several tens of million, as you remember, was the order of magnitude that went for the pay component.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U121	Would you like some extra time? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U122	So no one has any reason to say that hospitals are not in a position to comply with the contract. I have not heard any reproach, either, as if the contracts were not fulfilled. But once again, if anyone has any of these complaints, I suggest you address me directly, not through Dr. Vasiliev, because then at least half the information could go missing. We must also take into account that the changes that we have made and which we are likely to make in the Health Insurance Council by decision of 1 November will also have an impact on the budget for 2014. That certainly needs to be taken into account. However, I do not think that these are changes in the wrong direction. Even if my personal preference were to look perhaps more differentiatedly, or at least I understand why the board of the Health Insurance Fund proposed a more differentiated approach, I fully accept when doctors, nurses and the Hospital Association say that they agreed that everyone would be given one iron. Yes, it is up to us to comply with this agreement and we will do it in a timely manner, even if we were all prepared to agree at that table, so that in fact, some points would be better met in a slightly different way right now. All right, let us take into account that this has been agreed, and we will come to other issues in the following debates. I think that it will be very interesting to discuss the plans of the Health Insurance Fund for the next financial year. I very much hope that we will be able to get results that are equally acceptable to doctors, nurses and hospitals. That's what we're working for. I think that the issues that provided us with the opportunity to debate in detail the pricing of health services in the summer have been resolved in the lion's section. On the subject of care, as I said, a meeting will take place on 1 November. I believe that care issues will also be resolved. I now confirm my position, which I hope will be supported by the members of the Health Insurance Board. When I said that the total budget of the Health Insurance Fund is growing twice as fast as the state budget, i.e. 8.5%, I think that the care care budget could increase by about half more, because care treatment is a type of treatment that is very much in demand in Estonian health care, and this demand has grown considerably over time. Of course, these very large investments, which we have made with the support of European Union funds, also mean that we are now actually able to provide this service to a much larger number of people. As a result, the health insurance fund also has to pay these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U123	Thank you very much. We will conclude the negotiations and, with it, the debate on the point. The questioning process is over for today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U124	After hitting the hammer, it is possible to register for a performance in a free microphone. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U125	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, In the middle of the 19th century, iron roads were built on a massive scale in the United States. There weren't enough workers, so the Chinese were brought in. I read a story about it on the Internet. In one state, the Chinese suddenly began to disappear from the railroad. A little later, it turned out the Indians were responsible. Not them, but the thing was that they were mercilessly destroyed in this state, and every Indian they killed offered quite a lot of money. The proof that the Indian had been killed was a scalp. The white man's scalp, however, was not suitable to replace the Indian scalp, but the Chinese one was suitable. That's how they were killed to get money, killed instead of Indians. Why am I telling you this story? The process is currently more or less the same in Estonian politics. In Narva, I do not believe that the trade union as a whole, rather its political director, Mr Ponjatovski, has been paid a fee of EUR 500, EUR 1000 and EUR 1500 to those who report those who violate the electoral rules. I'm sure you know our criminal statistics, so I don't think you're gonna argue that in every municipality, every city and municipality of Estonia there are hardened alcoholics or drug addicts who are willing to kill a person for 1500 euros. But now, in order to get that money, it's all about pretending to be the voter and going to the same Ponyatovsky. Nevertheless, they too are people, they have the right to do their business. I want to give them some advice from this remote. First of all, don't get lost in the object. If you're gonna sue in Narva for sots or a member of the IRL list, you're not gonna get a knockout because they're the ones who pay the fees. Second, trade. Remember that Ossinovski, who promised to fund this fund in his café on Saturday, comes from Estonia's richest family. Thus, one and a half thousand euros is not the limit. If you go and tell me that Stalnukhin was buying votes, they'll give you 10,000 euros. Third, demand money in advance. It's such a union leader that if he shakes your hand, then after you count your fingers, maybe some are missing. So don't say a word until you have that nice amount in your pocket. Fourthly, remember that when this action takes place in Narva, everyone will know, including the Tax and Customs Board, who has received the money. Be prepared to be required to pay income tax and social tax on this money. I suggest you call for a contract of employment if you go and talk to this union manager. So four things: Choose the right object, trade, make money and demand a contract of employment, then you'll do well in your life. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-07_U126	Thank you very much. Are there any more requests for performances? No, it's not. Today's trial is over. Thank you to all participants. See you tomorrow morning! Closure of the sitting at 5.51 p.m.
