ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-18_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the ninth working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Let's start with my colleague, Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-18_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, Since we had an unexpectedly free weekend, which we had not planned, the Central Party Group has completed a new draft law. It's a surprise, a surprise! We also discussed at length and in depth how public family benefits, in particular child benefit, could go on. During this whole debate on the nights, it became clear that the 2014 budget does not offer any new opportunities. In order for all parties to be able to reflect calmly and to include possible increases in child benefits already in the May forecast, we have proposed a new scenario. In particular, children's benefits would, to a certain extent, increase depending on how many children they are, from 1 January 2015, to a greater extent in two stages: from 1 January 2016, when, for example, the first child would receive four times the rate of child benefit, and from 1 January 2017, when the first and second children would receive six times the rate of child benefit. More specifically, it is all there on this paper, of course, and if the draft complies with all the rules, then the Committee on Social Affairs can start working on it, and we can also discuss in this Chamber what pace should be appropriate for the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-18_U3	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-18_U4	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 16 members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party and two members of the Riigikogu belonging to the Alliance of Democrats, I will report an inquiry to the Estonian Minister of Culture, Rein Lang, on the violation of the Constitution of the Foundation. The Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Estonia is the founder of the Cultural page of the Foundation. The Foundation is managed by the Ministry of Culture and operates by means of an operating grant from its budget. The Board of the Foundation has been appointed by the Minister of Culture and may at any time withdraw a member of the Board, regardless of the reason. The members of the Board of the Foundation are obliged to follow the guidelines of the founder, i.e. the Minister of Culture, when making their decisions. It follows from the above that the Minister of Culture has all the legal and political means to influence the activities of the Cultural Site on a daily basis and therefore bears full responsibility for what is happening at the Foundation. Last week, Sirp's newspaper developed events that Ahto Lobjakas in today's Postimees unequivocally calls a punch. By making an inquiry, we want to get information on the backgrounds of this putch and the involvement of the minister in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-18_U5	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-18_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, Our questioning is also somewhat related to the previous one. But we ask the Minister of Culture Rein Lang more broadly: we ask what is happening in Estonian politics, which is taking place in Estonian cultural policy, which is taking place in the cultural landscape of Estonia. Looks like our creative intelligence is waking up, maybe already. We are talking about the need to bring together a new plenum of creative alliances, and we will probably remember the final years of one of the previous countries when the same currents and the same climate were created in society. We would like to ask the Minister of Culture where our culture is going and what the Minister is doing to make Estonian culture develop. A number of political group members have signed the inquiry. We want to discuss this topic, ask for and receive answers that are about to come from Estonian culture and whether Estonian creative intelligence is awakening. What does the Reform Minister think about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-18_U7	On behalf of the board, I have adopted a bill and two inquiries. If the draft law complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board will decide to adopt it within three working days. If inquiries comply with this law, I shall immediately forward them to the addressee. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on State Fees, initiated on 14 November, the Committee on Economic Affairs; second, the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion, initiated on 14 November by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of Bahrain, Committee on Finance; thirdly, the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the ratification of the treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion initiated on 14 November by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand, commission of finance committee; fourthly, Rait Maruses, member of the Riigikogu. The draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, initiated on 15 November, is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; fifthly, in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. A draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' submitted on 15 November, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the sixth, in the Riigikogu's Committee on Foreign Affairs. A draft of the decision of the Riigikogu "Adjustment of the Decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia' submitted on 15 November," the leading committee, the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has decided to appoint a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia' by the deadline for making available to the members of the Riigikogu the documents on which the first reading discussion is based. November 18, 2010 at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us now go to the adoption of the agenda. There is an addition on the agenda, please listen carefully! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has proposed to add the following to this week's agenda: to add a 16th item on the agenda of Tuesday, 19 November, which is the first reading of the draft Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Estonian delegation to the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia'. If the political groups agree with this, I shall vote on the adoption of this week's agenda. Please vote! 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-18_U8	Now, after my hammer hit, please sign up for a speech in a free microphone. Oh-oh-oh, you're fast! Let's start with my colleague, Heimar Leng. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-18_U9	Ladies and gentlemen, Life itself drove me here today to speak, because I have the feeling that Estonia is becoming a stagnant state or a stagna society. The more the day goes on, the more you feel anxious about Estonia's development. What happens to us and where are we going? Where are we going with the poorest wages and social benefits in the European Union, such as the EUR 19 child allowance? Even our main stream of media, or mainstream media, who are hard to blame for the lack of praise for government policy, has been forced to admit stagnation in the development of society in recent weeks. Newspapers even recommend that traders in supermarkets raise their wages because it is impossible to live with this almost nonexistent income. At the same time, the difference between rich and poor incomes is more than fivefold, and it is worse for the European Union. And it's not the only one. We have also returned to the forefront of alcohol consumption, as well as the number of boys and girls and single mothers who have died from drug abuse. As bad as the situation of our ordinary families has been, things have recently changed in Estonian culture. What is particularly worrying is what happens in creative intelligence. Of course, I'm talking about the Sirp saga. Rein Lang, our Minister of Culture, and Kaur Kender, and perhaps some more people from the neighbourhood of the Reform Party! Once again, the ancient feelings of envy of Estonians have been served on the tray, which have been garnished by telephone law and the policies of their boys. Embarrassing story, ladies and gentlemen! Primitive Toothless Fight for 5,000 copies of the printed newspaper! Even this war cannot be properly waged, which is yet to talk about the relations between the opposition and the power parties in Parliament Night sessions showed how powerless people can be invited to pursue government policy. He only spent a few decades up when the party of the robbers got tired and, by controlling his presence, laid its head on a pillow. How can these women and men then lead the Estonian state if they cannot resist a sleepless night?! At the same time, we have tens of thousands of people who have to work night shifts every night or every two or three weeks. And the cornerstone of this whole crisis is the draft law, which aims to ban the policy of dragging by night sessions in Estonia. This reminds me of the fight for Tallinn, where government departments themselves are unable to gather votes in public appearances and then try to seize power in Tallinn by means of legislative changes. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, this has not worked. The largest politician in Estonia was cast by nearly 40,000 voters. I think that this bill, which Mr Maruse has just presented, goes the same way as the drafts that touched Tallinn. It only gives wind to those who want to get out of stagnation and ask for support from the people in the next Riigikogu elections. Let us not allow the Estonian frog pond to grow once and for all! Let's do something and join our creative intelligence! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-18_U10	Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-18_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been a member of the Estonian Legislative Assembly for 15 years, but only in a few cases have I spoken in this speech chair in a free microphone. However, last very long parliamentary week is certainly a sufficient reason to talk a little about the issues that we did not debate very much last week, but which is why we spent long hours here. Of course, I am talking about child support, the situation of families and children with children in Estonia. For the third year in a row, the Social Democratic Party Group has made an amendment to the state budget requiring that universal child support be tripled. For the third year in a row, the ruling coalition has rejected this proposal. Also, in the external times of the budget, we have tabled a similar draft on a total of four occasions. One might ask, good Social Democrats, why do you beg? After all, it is clear that power does not wish to meet you inches. As a main counter argument, the ruling parties have used the argument that there is not enough free money in the state budget to further support families with children, or that the sources of cover recommended by the Social Democrats are in principle unacceptable. The hollowness of the two arguments, the empty content, was finally clear last week. How can it be confirmed that on the revenue side of the state budget, there is no possibility of increasing child support if, in the ten years when child support has been in force at current rates, the size of the state budget has increased almost threefold and most expenditure lines in the state budget have increased at least twice as high? I am not talking about how much the cost of all the goods and services that families with children need in life. In such a situation, to say that there is simply no money left in the state budget, it is empty, meaningless, sought-after excuse. As far as the sources of cover are concerned, undoubtedly the sources of cover proposed by the Social Democrats are more ideologically acceptable to us than to our right-wing liberal colleagues. Indeed, we think that giving away 60, 70 or 80 million income tax rates at the expense of the revenue side of the budget by reducing one percentage point and distributing it in such a way that the teacher receives 6 or 7 euros, the minister receives 40.50 euros and the minimum wage servant EUR 1 to 2 euros, is certainly unreasonable handling of state budget money. However, if this line were to disappear from the state budget, the child benefit could be doubled 2.5 times in one stroke. Yes, it is an ideological choice, and it is a very clear ideological waterfall, but we have repeatedly expressed our willingness to negotiate the sources of cover during the budgetary procedure. If it is a fundamental decision that until the Reform Party remains in power, as long as this right-wing coalition remains in power, child support must not grow in Estonia, we should look in the face at the figures that are spread by such statistics before us. Among other things, we should look at the migration indicators in the face. Last year, 6500 more people left Estonia than there were those who came here or returned. Birth rates show that, despite the constant increase in life expectancy, more than 1300 people died in Estonia last year than they were born. These figures tell us the same thing that the population scientists have expressly said: the last time to invest in children to support families with children is now. This expenditure must not be pushed into the future, as it may be too late in the future to do so. Ladies and gentlemen of the Reform Party and the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance! Perhaps in these terms we could think again, think again, forget the opposition of the party and deal with this big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-18_U12	Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-18_U13	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Honourable Chairwoman. A good colleague, Sven Mikser, said that he has only used the possibility of a free microphone a few times in 15 years, and I am here for the first time in 2.5 to 3 years, and the reason is the same. Indeed, there can be no silence after what took place here last week in the Riigikogu after these cynical speeches and completely unjustified opposition to increasing child benefits. Last week, when the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs defended the budget, we heard a lot of talk about the fact that, on the one hand, there is no money to increase child support, while at the same time he spoke against himself and said that it is not really ideologically appropriate to do so. It is very sad that the worldview of right-wing parties prevents children from supporting them. I would say that such a view of the world prevents us from being a statesman and thinking about the Estonian state in the longer term than the four years of the coalition agreement. I have wondered what language should be spoken to coalition partners and ministers. I've tried the language of numbers and talked about how critical the time has come and that we have to support the women who are now in childbirth. Rumours that little children are born because we don't have women in childbirth aren't true. The generation that could give birth is numerous and must be supported. Studies have shown once again the language of numbers, why there are no two or more children in our families, as people would really want. Very clearly, the first reason that state support is too low, the second is the lack of kindergarten places and the third is the fear that children will not be able to get a good education. All three problems are very easy to solve. I've spoken the language of emotions in this very hall. I've been thinking that if the language of numbers is not understandable, then maybe the language of feelings is. But neither is it, nor will it be heard. I have the same feeling, too, and if we don't bet now, it's gonna be too late. We know that in the 1990s the birth rate fell dramatically: 15,000 children were born a year and less, even 12,000 children. In the late 1980's, however, more than 20,000 children were born a year, almost twice the difference. In the 1990s, it was precisely the fact that there was a great deal of uncertainty in society. Let's learn something from this! These young people are about to have children, and there are already few. We are doing what we can now, supporting our families! But, unfortunately, no language is understood. It is confirmed that there is no money. Mr Mikser gave a very good example earlier that it is not really a question of money. In 2015, the planned reduction in income tax of 1% could be canceled, which leaves very little money in the hands of the Estonian average family. Families with children, however, could benefit greatly from this money. I'm afraid you don't want to do that. I'm not surprised. In 2008 our Prime Minister said that it was printed in Postimees, that in fact about 20% of Estonian families should support and 300 kroons would not be needed for others. Where does the Prime Minister take the courage and the knowledge to say that only a few families must be supported, and the majority of children now have 230,000 children - could be left without state support? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-18_U14	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-18_U15	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, issued a draft law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu, with which it is clear! He wishes to deepen the democratic processes in Estonia. This draft law is about the desire to restrict the opposition's ability to table amendments and, in their case, to take breaks. I formally declare that I agree with the proposed text, but only if some provisions are included between the first and second readings in this draft which make the idea and spirit of the draft proposed by Rait Marust unambiguously understood. In the light of the above and in the interests of the further development of democracy, I propose that the law on the home and working procedures of the Riigikogu be supplemented as follows. Firstly, opposition members enter the Chamber of the Riigikogu on their knees. On the doorstep, each member of the opposition must kiss the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Only after this procedure has been carried out will the member of the opposition receive his voting card. Secondly, five working days before the debate on one or another item in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, the members of the opposition will present their speech to the Constitutional Committee for discussion. The Chairman of the Constitutional Committee decides on the constructive nature of each speech and authorises or does not give a speech in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. I think it's very democratic. If the opposition ambassador's speech contains exhausting thoughts from the coalition, he will be punished by sewing his mouth shut for three to five days, so much will be suffered by everyone; hunger will not die. Thirdly, in order to ensure the targeted use of the sitting time, the number of questions asked by the opposition is limited to three, for the opposition as a whole. Questions must go through the same coordination procedure as calls. In spite of this, the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that the guilty person be sent to the State Predator, proposing also how many whips a particular sinner deserves. Unfortunately, my speaking time is limited. In fact, I have a few dozen proposals, and among them are those that take into account our geographical situation and the architecture of the Riigikogu building. For example, there is a closed courtyard just outside the hall. There could be a couple of bears and some members of the opposition whose behaviour does not correspond to Mr Marust's idea of the true democracy could sometimes be in that courtyard for a few hours. I think a kind word and a hungry bear can achieve much more than just a kind word. Moreover, this courtyard is directly beneath the windows of the Reform Party and they can enjoy the same process that they have enjoyed in this hall day after day for two and a half years, also in the rooms where they usually rest. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we've entered a new epoch. What is going on in our judicial system, the prosecutor's office, will naturally be transferred to the highest authority, the hall of representative power. I think that makes quite a lot of sense. I think it is necessary that the first reading of the draft law proposed by the Maruse takes place as soon as possible, and I call on you to make maximum proposals to complete it. Imagine the lovely colleagues in the Chamber, except, of course, for the President of our sitting, how enjoyable it is to use it after March 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-18_U16	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-18_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable audience! It was a little over ten years ago when Aino Järvesoo, an external Estonian, was hurting the heart for the Estonian children. We all remember when 1,000 kroons of child support was spoken to every Estonian child every month. Aino Järvesoo also hurt her heart because Estonians are getting smaller and smaller. And now it's happened, we're having fewer and fewer children. I was very pleased when the then Patriotic Union, at its Grand Assembly in May 2002, decided that the support of the first child should be 1000 kroons per month. If I am not mistaken, it was one of their main electoral promises also in the 2003 Riigikogu elections. But, oh, woe, by now they have joined the Res Publica Party, founded by the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. I do not know whether this is one reason, they have forgotten their promise and are boycotting the wish of the Socialists to increase the support of the first and second children to triple. I'm so sorry about that. At the time, no social impact analysis was carried out; everyone understood that child support must be higher and universal. But if you listen to our Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee and other members of the IRL now, you do not realize that they really want to increase child support. After all, it can be said that a white paper, a green paper, a social impact analysis must be made, and it will soon be another ten years. Let us see how much the share of family benefits in GDP has fallen: a few years ago it was 1.4%, now it is 0.5%. You can also see this in monetary terms. From the point of view of Estonia's survival, the main concern is that the first children will no longer be born into families. Studies, as well as statistics, show that the birth rate of the first children in families has fallen in recent years. As Urve Palo has already said, our potential parents expect a bit of security and state support, they expect a kindergarten place and a guarantee that they will be able to provide their offspring with a modern, proper education. They'd be magic wands to help make families feel safe. So people don't expect anything supernatural from the state. As far as social benefits are concerned, they are twice the average of the European Union in Estonia, while prices have risen faster than the average of the European Union in recent years. For example, in Finland, the first child's allowance is EUR 100, the second child's allowance is EUR 110. In Norway, the allowance for the first and second children is both EUR 121, in Sweden the allowance for the first child is EUR 109, in the second child EUR 125. I will also take the example of Hungary, the former Eastern bloc country: there is the first child's allowance of EUR 42 46 cents. It is therefore not surprising that young people at the best age of employment and childbearing will leave Estonia. As it recently turned out, as of 2012, 83000 Estonian citizens studied, worked and paid taxes abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-18_U18	There's no more calls. Our hearing is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 3.35 p.m.
