ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 16th working week Thursday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Since the Riigikogu's cultural committee has taken full attention to the processing of the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school, we decided to leave the pre-school children's institution in the autumn to deal with the law. In order to assist the Committee on Culture, the Central Party Group will present a draft amendment to § 27 of the Pre-school Children's Institution Act in advance by autumn. In fact, there has been a very long debate about the remuneration of teachers, or teachers, of pre-school institutions. Various models have been foreseen for this purpose. In the past, additional support was also provided for local governments, which is why we are very pleased about this in a very large number of local authorities, in the end, the salaries of teachers in children's institutions were equal to those of teachers working in schools. Unfortunately, cuts during the crisis have had quite a serious impact on teachers' salaries. We are proposing ways to re-establish these requirements across the country and also to provide opportunities to support equal pay for teachers in pre-school institutions and schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U3	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I hereby submit to the procedure a draft decision of the Riigikogu, which aims to oblige the Government of the Republic to organise the translation of the laws of the Republic of Estonia which regulate the organisation of daily life, the status of foreigners and the protection of fundamental rights into Russian, in addition to the English language. I have discussed this issue several times here in the context that the Riigikogu has instructed the government to translate all 400 Estonian laws into English in order to make Estonia understandable to the outside world. We strongly support the attempt to make the functioning of the Estonian state understandable to the outside world, while we believe that the state must also be understandable to all Estonian residents. According to the census data, 383000 people with Russian native language live permanently in Estonia, and only 15% of them can handle active language use in Estonian based on the results of integration monitoring. It is clear that many residents of Estonia with other native languages are unable to understand the content of Estonian legislation in Estonian because of their lack of language skills, so they are less well informed about the organisation of Estonian state life and their rights to receive different services and state protection. Less legal awareness directly affects trust in national institutions on the basis of many studies. We therefore believe that the draft would improve the legal awareness of Estonian residents, facilitate the work of officials and legal specialists who serve people in other languages, while the draft does not change the status of the Estonian language as a state language. A number of parties have been consulted on the content of the draft before it was put into procedure. The draft has been supported by the Institute of Baltic Studies, the Estonian Human Rights Centre and Praxis, and the President of the Bar Association has also expressed his support. I hope that some of the opponents of the draft will rest well during the summer, and we will be able to deal with this draft in a calm and constructive manner in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U5	Please, Mr Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U6	Good Riigikogu! On behalf of the members of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats, I present an inquiry to the Minister for the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, on the organisation of maritime and coastal pollution response capabilities. In the summary of the 2011 emergency risk assessments by the Ministry of the Interior, extensive marine and coastal pollution has been assessed as a very high risk emergency. At the same time, the analysis states that prevention and significant preparation measures must be taken in the event of emergencies of this type of risk, inter-agency exercises, training and resource planning are mandatory. The HELCOM Baltic Sea Action Plan has also presented a number of proposals. States Parties are encouraged, inter alia, to take the necessary measures to assess and control the risk of oil and chemical pollution and, on this basis, to review sub-regional response capacities. It is also recommended to provide adequate response capacities and response capacity to effectively collect pollutants in the event of a medium-sized pollution event or to keep large-scale pollution incidents under control until the auxiliary forces arrive at the site. In addition, it is important to enable effective response capacity on the coastline. Consequently, we have five questions for the Minister to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to process them within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall forward it to the addressee immediately. Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to welcome Mr Peumans and his colleagues from the Flanders Parliament on their visit to Estonia. We wish them successful meetings and contacts and a pleasant stay in Estonia! [[Let's hear it.]] I'm sorry, but there are no messages today. That's why we're about to do a presence check. 75 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 26.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U8	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The first item on today's agenda is an overview of judicial order, justice and uniform application of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you how we deal with this point. First, the Chairman of the Supreme Court, Märt Rask, is a presentation that lasts up to 30 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone can ask the rapporteur a question. Subsequent negotiations, where only representatives of the political groups can participate. Speaker of the Supreme Court Märt Rask, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! This presentation by the President of the Supreme Court is my ninth and last. In total, the Riigikogu has listened and discussed presentations on this subject 11 times with today. In nine years, I have had the opportunity to analyse the problems of judicial organisation and justice before the three parliamentary assemblies, to make proposals, to express recognition and to make a criticism, which in turn allows me to draw conclusions on how different formations of the Riigikogu have dealt with the development of court and judicial system, justice and the problems raised in the report. But that is not today's issue. This time we will be talking about criminal proceedings and, above all, the surveillance activities involved in this type of procedure, of course, my presentation also includes traditional headings. Last spring's presentation contained five fundamental proposals, which were also considered important by the members of the Court's Administrative Advisory Board. This presentation has also been discussed in principle at the meeting of the Court Administration Advisory Board on 24 May 2013, from which it must be concluded that the criticism contained in the report and the proposals aimed at promoting state life and justice are not merely a fiction by the speaker, but are based on the opinion of experts and analysts. First of all, look back on last year's proposals. The first proposal of a fundamental nature was that the Riigikogu could consider discussing any constitutional review decision at least at the level of the relevant committee. To clarify, problems with the implementation of constitutional review judgments are not unique to Estonia, but exist as conflicts between two branches of power in almost all countries where constitutional courts operate. The Supreme Court has carried out an analysis in 2010-2012. The execution of the 2009 Constitutional Review Judgments. The analysis confirms that, as a general rule, the legislator has complied with the judgments of the Constitutional Court within a reasonable period of time. At the same time, there are areas where the creation of a constitutional legal order poses serious difficulties for the legislator. The Riigikogu has completely failed to comply with three decisions of the Supreme Court, all of which concern state liability. The procedure of the State Liability Act in the Riigikogu has stopped. However, as the fifth proposal in the previous report concerned the need for a State Liability Act, the speaker here is pleased to note, on the basis of the information provided by the Ministry of Justice, that a preliminary draft has been drawn up, which has been given to experts for analysis. Basic positions have also been discussed with the Supreme Court and by the autumn of this year the draft law on state liability should reach the Riigikogu. The dispute as to whether or not the Supreme Court's decision has been complied with may last for years, because it is quite difficult to define whether compliance with the judgment means establishing the relevant regulation or also the enforcement of this regulation in a way that satisfies the parties to the dispute. This has happened with the decision of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court on the financing of local governments. Obviously, with a certain degree of agreement, the decision is formally complied with, but in a way that has not brought about satisfactory changes in the resolution of the financing problems of local authorities. Unfortunately, two decisions have not been taken, one on the charges for the farming of technical installations and the other on the Aliens Act. No new arrangements have been put in place to determine the amount of the farm premium for technical installations. As regards the Aliens Act, the Supreme Court stated that in the event of refusal to grant a temporary residence permit, the legislator must provide for discretion even if the person has voluntarily undertaken to leave the Republic of Estonia. The new law ignores an old law settlement. The Supreme Court is already monitoring the execution of its decisions, but in the interests of smooth cooperation, it would be reasonable to get feedback from the legislator on what is being done to put an end to the constitutional situation established by the Court. I am now talking about procedural statistics on the workload of courts. As a generalisation of the nine-year period, I dare confirm that Estonia's judicial statistics have undergone a major qualitative development. Statistics have been made reliable. The objective data to be collected already allow for reasoned decisions on both the administration of courts and the timing and quality of court proceedings, which does not mean that there is no room for improvement in this area. Traditionally, the report is accompanied by an overview of the statistics of the 2012 courts, which allows for an independent interpretation (see Annex 1 below). In short, I will mention just a few statistical indicators that generally characterised the work of the courts in 2012. Last year, it could be said that the increase in court cases has stopped. The comparison of 2012 data with 2011 shows that last year the court received complaints and applications for all types of proceedings, with the exception of the misdemeanour procedure, 10 to 16% less. There are clear reasons why the number of appeals has decreased without a thorough scientific analysis, which makes it unreasonable to draw conclusions that go beyond one year on the basis of trends. It is too early to declare that our legal order has stabilised, legal conflict in society has diminished, legal compliance and understanding of legitimate conduct has improved. However, the reduction in the number of complaints and applications by 10 to 16% has not reduced the actual workload of the courts, as up to 16 judges had been continuously vacant in the year instead of the usual up to ten vacant judges. The cost of a more efficient workload is illustrated by the following figures: Each judge in the civil cases of Harju County Court wrote 408 judgments and orders in 2012, i.e. 1.1 decisions requiring legal analysis on a calendar rather than a working day. How much progress can be made with this pace of work, is the question of the talent and ability of any judge or court official. The new President of the Supreme Court, Priit Pikamäe, rightly emphasised that one of the main tasks facing the Estonian judicial system is to improve the quality of judicial decisions. The current conveyor work has made it difficult to improve the quality of first instance judicial decisions. Welcome is the clear position of the Minister of Justice, whose decisions depend to a large extent on the execution of judges' seats, that a competition has already been announced for all vacant judges by the end of this year. It is the duty of the State to ensure that justice takes place smoothly. Looking at the statistical average of the length of the proceedings, it can be confirmed that last year the judicial system worked faster in the first instance, i.e. in rural and administrative courts than in the last year. In both civil and criminal proceedings, the duration of proceedings has been reduced over the last five years, but only in administrative court proceedings there is a slight increase in the length of proceedings (see Annex 2 for details). The legal policy objective set by the Government Coalition that judicial proceedings should not last for more than a hundred days at any stage of the court has not been statistically reached at any stage of the court. On average, in general proceedings in criminal matters, a solution is reached within an average of three times the duration of 327 days, a private dispute can be resolved within an average of 156 days, and an average of 149 days has to be disputed by the State in administrative courts. Accelerating judicial proceedings, if this does not adversely affect the quality of the procedure, is certainly justified. The Presidents of the Courts have pointed out, as a reason for the delay in the cases, the cases of unanswered judges, the search for defendants and accused persons, the identification of the defendant who has disappeared or died, the long illness of the parties to the proceedings, the problems of carrying out the examination, and the suspension of one case as a result of waiting for a decision on another case. In 2012, there continued to be a positive trend towards a steady decline in the balance of outstanding cases by the end of 2012. The balance has only increased in the case of minor offences, but in this type of proceedings more complaints were brought before the courts than in previous years. The question arises as to whether the reduction in the balance of outstanding cases and the speed of the procedure have led to less legal certainty for decisions. In civil and criminal proceedings, 10% of the judgments of the Courts of First Instance were challenged, while in the same administrative cases, almost half of the cases were appealed to the district courts, i.e. 47%. In conclusion, following the judgment of the District Court in civil and criminal proceedings, 96.98% of the decisions at first instance remained valid, a little less in administrative cases, 85% in administrative cases. In the light of the judgments which were not challenged at second instance, the case-law of the Court of First Instance is also annulled by less than 1% in criminal proceedings, by 2% in civil matters and by 8% in administrative cases. The percentage of the annulment of decisions is low, which means an increase in the authority of the decisions of the Court of First Instance and an increase in legal certainty. In the Supreme Court, less than 1% of cases settled at first instance are dealt with, except in administrative cases where this percentage is close to 3. These things, for example, return to the first stage to discuss, or go to the second round of 0.1 to 0.4% of the things discussed earlier in the first step. When interpreting these figures, it should be taken into account that the figures do not apply to cases of the same year, the second-level statistics are about the previous first-degree decisions of the year, while the statistics of the Supreme Court are about an even earlier period. The next item is the European Court of Human Rights rulings on Estonia from 1 January 2012 to 30 April 2013. The European Court of Human Rights issued five substantive decisions on complaints against Estonia during this period (Annex 3 to this report). The purpose of including the subject of decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in an annual report is not to create a debate on human rights in the Riigikogu, but to give Parliament an overview of how the judicial system responds to the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights where violations of the Convention have been found in the area of justice. All that has been the subject of discussion in the Court of Justice of Estonia regarding the implementation of the Convention. Judges are regularly trained on the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights. The Ministry of Justice is in the process of setting up a system of monitoring of "old cases," the time for which has been unduly lengthy, which would allow for a timely identification of the reasons for delaying the court proceedings. I now compare the Estonian judicial system with that of other European countries. As it is customary for Estonia to compare myself with other countries with all kinds of rankings, I also briefly look at what the Estonian judicial system and justice seem like in comparison with other countries (Annex 4 has been added to this presentation). The Estonian judicial system can be compared with other countries in the European judicial area using two sources. In July 2012, the Council of Europe Committee on Effective Justice (CEPEJ) published a comparative report on justice systems in the countries of the fifth Council of Europe. In March 2013, the European Commission presented a scoreboard of justice systems in the European Union. In both cases, the benchmarks have been compiled on the basis of the 2010 figures and thus have become somewhat obsolete. A very precise cross-border comparison cannot be made because the legal and judicial systems of each country have some specific features. However, it is possible to make the most important generalisations and comparisons. Firstly, the courts of first instance deal with civil matters at the European average speed, administrative matters at a much faster rate than average. Secondly, there are fewer judges per 100000 inhabitants in Estonia than on average in Europe. We are clearly distinguished from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe (Germany, Austria, Hungary, the Czech Republic) and we are approaching the Nordic countries. Thirdly, public expenditure on the judicial system is on average twice as low as in our'model countries' in Europe, especially in the Nordic countries. Fourthly, compared to 2008, Estonia contributed 21.8% less money to the functioning of the judicial system in 2010, with which Estonia is the second highest ranking in the reduction of the judicial budget after Latvia, in a situation where the overall trend in Europe is to increase the judicial budget (around 4%). Fifthly, according to the World Economic Forum, the Estonian judicial system is perceived as independent. Among the 144 countries of the world, the Estonian judicial system has been placed in 21st place in terms of estimated independence, for example, we are ahead of Austria and France. For Estonia, it can be said in general that fewer judges work faster than average and significantly cheaper. We now come to the main issue, surveillance and pre-trial review. The aim of the report is not to participate in the discussion on bill No 295 pending before the Riigikogu. I would just like to confirm that the Supreme Court has maintained its positions, which were communicated to the legislator in February 2012 in the form of an opinion on the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and related amendments to other laws. The main thrust of this opinion was the need to clearly distinguish law enforcement from criminal investigation. The objectives of these surveillance activities are different. The need to distinguish between these two types of surveillance activities is particularly evident in defining the circle of persons subject to surveillance activities and ensuring the protection of their fundamental rights. The opinion of the Supreme Court was not taken into account by the legislator and on 1 January 2013 amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure entered into force, which is undoubtedly an improvement in this area, but according to the opinion already cited by the Supreme Court, the legal clarity is unclear. Since the legislator's will to regulate surveillance activities has just been stated and is in force for quite a short time, it is reasonable to await the emergence of case law on both criminal and constitutional review. The legislator should not rush to change the rules that have not yet been introduced in practice. In Estonia there is an effective and reliable constitutional review court, which allows everyone to challenge the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Security Authorities Act in the context of a specific case in order to check their compliance with the Constitution. The legislator has given s. a the regulation of surveillance activities introduced from 1 January introduced an unusually wide margin of discretion on the part of the executive, both in the delineation of persons subject to surveillance activities and in the ex post notification of persons concerned by surveillance activities. Whether such a broad right of discretion can be exercised in practice in accordance with the Constitution shows caselaw. To further define today's subject, it should be noted that it is not a question of analysing the evidence and information collected in the course of surveillance activities in criminal proceedings, but of how the courts grant permissions for surveillance activities and how to develop the field and bring it into line with our Constitution and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. The Supreme Court has prepared an initial analysis of the judicial review of surveillance activities, which definitely needs further development. The analysis accompanying the report (i.e. Annex No 5) must be taken as an introduction to the subject. However, discussions with the investigating judges and especially with the chairman of Tallinn Administrative Court, Villem Lapimaa, may make some conclusions and suggestions that should help to strengthen our constitutional order. In order to understand the subject correctly, it must be assumed that surveillance in all its forms is a restriction of fundamental rights for any person subject to surveillance. The violation of fundamental rights can only be justified if it is intended to achieve a legitimate objective, which, according to the Constitution, can only be to prevent a criminal offence or to establish the truth in criminal proceedings. The choice of surveillance activities as a method must be proportionate and strictly in accordance with the law. Collecting evidence and information with surveillance activities can only be exceptional, ultima ratio when all other options have been exhausted. The exception must not become a rule, and the court must also be able to stand up for it by means of the practice of granting permissions for surveillance activities. In order to facilitate the resolution of problems, I rely solely on the fundamental rights laid down in § 43 of the Constitution, which can only be violated by the court with the permission of the court for the purpose of preventing a criminal offence or for the purpose of finding out the truth in criminal proceedings. This is the protection of the confidentiality of messages, the protected area of which includes all kinds of messages transmitted. Everyone has the right to the secret of these messages. On the one hand, the state must ensure the protection of the confidentiality of messages and, on the other hand, the state can use the restriction of this fundamental right to prevent crimes and to find out the truth. It is as simple as that: to ensure balance, or proportionality, in achieving these prima facie conflicting objectives, in choosing the means. This balance cannot be concocted, but it must take place in the course of case law, where every violation of fundamental rights is analysed on the basis of the circumstances of the particular case. The Court's authorisation of surveillance activities, based on specific factual circumstances, is also a decision based in particular on the discretion of the court, which, on the basis of precedents, constitutes a practice of the protection of fundamental rights in this area. What is this practice? What principles does the court base on when granting or refusing authorisation to pursue surveillance activities? Is the court based on the ultima ratio principle or rather on how it is easier? How does the court motivate these decisions? All these issues remain unanswered in the context of the current relatively weak practice and legal regulation, as there is no internal analysis of the judiciary, methodological guidance, training and supervision. It is somewhat easier to check the merits of surveillance activities in criminal proceedings, as eventually the criminal record, together with the evidence gathered during surveillance activities, will arrive at a court where the constitutionality of the authorisation of surveillance activities can be assessed in principle. It is more complex, if not impossible, to verify whether the authorisation given by the administrative court to pursue law enforcement activities is justified and constitutional. Moreover, a regulation has been established on how information obtained as a result of law enforcement surveillance can be used as judicial evidence. It should be stressed that there are no areas in the rule of law for which compliance with the Constitution cannot be verified. Rather, there is a specific issue on how to legally build a control system. The authorisation of the restriction of the secrecy of messages is conferred under § 43 of the Constitution on the exclusive jurisdiction of the judicial system to which no person outside the judicial system is allowed to intervene. Parliamentary control over the activities of executive power through the relevant Riigikogu commission is appropriate, but it cannot be extended to the judicial system. It is precisely because of the independence of the courts that the committee cannot dictate to the court whether to grant fewer or more permissions for surveillance activities or to justify the granting or refusal of authorisation with any important political motives. As a result, parliamentary oversight of the courts for the granting of intelligence permits is less active and its constitutional compatibility is questionable. It must be accepted that authorisation for surveillance activities is part of the administration of justice and falls within the jurisdiction of the courts conferred by the Constitution. The creation of an additional independent body, a collection of so-called wise people, to influence, coordinate, monitor justice, in other words, to interfere with it, would be unthinkable in the rule of law or would at least require a change in the constitution. There is no monitoring in the judicial system of judges authorising surveillance activities. There cannot be areas of restriction of fundamental rights over which there is no monitoring, which cannot be analysed and whose practice cannot be harmonised. It is not possible to use the complaint procedure as the most common means of redress to verify the legality of surveillance activities, including those breaching the confidentiality of messages, as the person to whom the surveillance operation is carried out is not notified. The main feature of surveillance activities is their secrecy, which, unfortunately, makes it impossible to exercise the fundamental right of everyone enshrined in § 15 of the Constitution, the right to apply to the courts in the event of violation of rights and freedoms. The notification of an ex-post surveillance operation or the judicial protection of a right already infringed does not preclude that the fundamental rights of persons may continue to be violated in the future when granting permissions for surveillance activities and in the pursuit of surveillance activities. Since it is not possible to use the right of appeal as a remedy to check the legality of surveillance activities, it must be more effective to monitor within the judicial system. Today it has to be said that both the investigating judge in criminal proceedings and the administrative judge who authorises surveillance activities in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Security Authorities Act are alone. The judge does not have the opportunity to consult colleagues when problems arise, to complement himself. The judge's authorisation is based on the discretion conferred on him by law, but the considerations of a single judge cannot shape the case-law on the limitation of fundamental rights. The role of collegial decision-making in the granting of surveillance permits could be increased, reducing the possibility of error, increasing the credibility of justice and the authority of judicial decisions. The courts should give priority to the delegation of the granting of a tracking permit from the heads of courts to ordinary judges, which has been done in criminal proceedings in county courts under the law and which has been carried out in administrative courts as a result of changes in the organisation of work. This will allow the chairs of the courts to check the functioning of justice in court in an operational and complete manner. The Presidents of the Courts should also be involved in joint meetings in the Supreme Court as supervisory authorities. Many of these issues can be resolved through internal judicial training and consultation, but the legislator must establish a legal basis for this. In the broadest sense, I think that the centre of supervision and analysis of the authorisation of surveillance activities, the formulation of case law and the training of judges in this field should be located in the Supreme Court, where the leaders of the respective colleges would be competent to analyse and direct all developments. In granting permission for surveillance activities, in addition to violating fundamental rights, there may be a wider impact on the functioning of the entire society if permission is granted, for example, to a member of the Riigikogu, a minister, the head of a constitutional institution or why not to a notary, lawyer, clergyman or party leader. Granting or refusing to carry out surveillance activities becomes a broader constitutional issue in these cases, the decision of which could be delegated to the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court. Other cases relating to constitutional institutions that are not a norm control (e.g. electoral appeals, complaints against decisions of the Riigikogu and the President of the Republic) will be resolved by constitutional supervision. Such a solution would ensure the control of surveillance activities in matters with wider influence by the highest and most authoritative judicial body in Estonia and should reduce fears and doubts about the subject. I will try to summarise the proposal that the Supreme Court should, first of all, be obliged by law to supervise the granting of surveillance permits, to generalise the case law on surveillance activities and to organise sector-specific training of judges, and, second, to consider the use of a collegial decision-making form for the granting of surveillance permits in cases of wider social impact. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U10	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Supreme Court, for this meaningful report. You have many questions. Starts with my colleague, Kaja Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U11	Thank you. Mr President, thank you first for your thorough presentation. My question is about this proposal that the Riigikogu should consider discussing constitutional review of judicial decisions at least in the relevant committee. How exactly do you see this coming, and whose initiative could it take place? Would it be possible to communicate with Parliament and the judicial authorities before this decision is given? In that case, wouldn't you consider that the principle of separation of powers would be compromised?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U12	I'll start at the end. Constitutional monitoring has not been passed in court proceedings; the Riigikogu has given the law nothing more than a party to the proceedings. It cannot be said here, as has repeatedly been said here, that there is no opinion on one issue or another, because there is no desire to violate the separation of powers. According to the law, the legislature (in the case of a government act, the Government, as a minister's decree, the Minister) is a party to proceedings in this type of procedure. The party to proceedings may exercise his right to state all the arguments, to persuade them, to explain them. This will take place before the dispute is settled. Once the dispute has been resolved, the body that has adopted the act is the Riigikogu in the case of the law, it should probably draw conclusions from a constitutional point of view and coordinate the work so as to eliminate the situation that has been declared to be unconstitutional as soon as possible. If we follow very closely the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and analyse it at very different levels, starting with the government and ending with the court administration council and with specific judges, we will see that constitutional review judicial decisions are no less important for the formation of the legal system. It's been like either the government's or the Justice Department's work plan is gonna be turned into this, second or third thing. I have just given an example of the State Liability Act, which has been in the process for quite some time, but there is no result. It has also been pointed out from outside Estonia that the problems of state liability need to be resolved. I now come to the first part of the question. I imagine that the solution is such, regardless of the author of the act, whether it is the government, the minister or the Riigikogu, that if the Supreme Court makes a resolution in constitutional supervision, we will send it to the Riigikogu, for example, Mrs Ergma, and a polite body will comply with the letter. In other words, we're gonna grow on this decision. It's all public. Then we'll know what we're going to do. I do not mean here the solutions we have made in a consistent manner, 35 or more constitutional review courts have been resolved on the issue of state fees. The new law has been passed, but these things continue to accumulate. There's nothing to discuss. But there are topics where it would be wise to involve all of our legal analysts, practitioners, and theorists in order to get the best solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U13	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U14	Dear Mr. Rask! According to the press, the mayor of Kohtla-Järve, Mr. Solovjov, was charged with corruption, if I am not mistaken, in 2006 and the Viru County Court has appointed this accusation to 2015. In the meantime, the esteemed mayor has been re-elected, probably re-elected in the coming autumn. Can you explain this case, which is completely incomprehensible to the common sense, a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U15	I can't explain the case because I don't know what's inside it. Even if I knew that, I wouldn't explain it here anyway. However, if the point of the question was that justice has been entangled within a reasonable period of time or almost does not occur, then I can say that this issue has also been discussed in the court administration council. I say once again that there is a certain number of judges in the judicial system, but there are 16 to 20 of them outstanding, especially many of them in Viru County. Without wanting, the judge can't do these things 24 hours a day. The lack of labour has led to a very long period of proceedings in one court or another. The question is, if this is to be discussed in 2015, it will not be known when this will end.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U16	Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U17	Thank you very much. Mr President of the Supreme Court, thank you for this presentation and, afterwards, thank you for all the other presentations you have made in our Chamber over the years. Accelerating the process of judicial proceedings is one of the tasks that has not worked best in Estonia. Continuer of your work, the next Chairman of the Supreme Court has rightly expressed the opinion on several occasions that it should be more bold to dismiss first instance proceedings and go to the next step immediately. Do you share this view, is that his position also your idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U18	No, it wasn't my idea. That was a short answer. The longer answer is that when 20 years ago I was lucky to be present at certain events, we argued some things very clearly. The Estonian judicial system must be simple and understandable. But the justice system hasn't gotten any easier, it's gotten more complicated all the time. Everyone needs to know that all cases begin at first instance, with minor exceptions (a misdemeanour procedure, whatever). Different models exist in European countries. I'm sure it's time to dig once. If we start at level two, then the next step is the Supreme Court. Then the Supreme Court can no longer have a 'passport system', whether or not something is accepted. There's gonna be a whole chain here. It is very nice to say that we will simply shorten the courts and thus achieve the end result more quickly, but we need to analyse everything that this entails. I've just been dealing with all this for 20 years, and I wouldn't be so optimistic that it's the best way to speed up justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U19	Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear President of the Supreme Court! Changing generations is a natural part of life. You mention in your report that this is exactly the process that will take place in the coming years among the Estonian judiciary. At the same time, we have vacant judges' offices and you are expressing the opinion that it would make sense to make the appointment procedure more flexible. Is it possible for you to open up that opinion a little bit? What do you mean, more flexible?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U21	At the moment, the Minister of Justice holds the wallet, he announces the competition and the participant submits the documents to the President of the Supreme Court. We are doing this so-called judicial system in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice. In principle, this system may continue, but it will be nine to ten months between the application and the completion of the competition, i.e. almost a year. At that time, there will be a security check, which will last for three months, but also a number of other procedures, a judge's exam and all other things. On the one hand, this long application period is good because we are getting to know this person. You can't be a random person to judge. On the other hand, can't we get to know it, touch it, track it, and do everything before? We should have a reserve of judges whose background has been checked, a security check taken, an exam taken, everything in place. They serve as Advocates-General in court, for example. This road has already been taken, there is a pilot project at Harju County Court. I wish them strength! It is possible that, in the future, even in the near future, we will have people qualified and qualified as judges in the judicial system, who will work as Advocates-General, and they will be able to apply quickly and this place will be filled. In other words, this situation must become more dynamic and faster. I am not referring here to those unfortunate cases where cooperation between the various judicial bodies has simply led to a change of role between several judges. I mean, when a person retires or is leaving for health reasons. You can't force anyone. The maximum age is currently 68 years. We can predict that when a person grows this old or reaches retirement age, he will leave. But if a person feels the strength and wants to continue working, then he must be given the opportunity. An opportunity has been created to postpone this age limit by two years. However, in my opinion, given the general tendencies, this age limit may prove discriminatory if it should come under discussion in the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court. This means that this restriction may be declared unconstitutional, with the result that the border is no longer at all. It's gonna be really hard to predict when someone wants to retire or something. So the creation of a reserve to fill the judges' seats is essential.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U22	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U23	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Dear Chairman of the Supreme Court, thank you very much for a very good overview and thank you for the additional materials that are useful for browsing and studying! In your presentation, you also highlighted quite a number of moments concerning the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Central Party Group. Thank you very much for your constructive proposals, both today and in advance. My question is quite specific, it is about judges. Like previous speakers, I have taken a rather worrying look at this situation. One of the reasons for this is our lack of human resources. It certainly did not contribute to a substantial reduction in the benefits of judges, let us say, including the abolition of special pensions. You've been on these decisions for a very long time. What is your position as to whether the abolition of the special pension for judges is justified and how should this be done in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U24	The judge is subject to very high demands, both in terms of professional qualifications and in terms of morals. We want the best of the best to be appointed for life. If this package of social guarantees falls weaker, I will now choose the words in particular. It may in future have an impact on the participation in the judges' competitions. It's not coming out right now. I don't know what to change in ten years. The overall trend of the pension system as a whole is understandable, but some additional guarantees are certainly needed to fill certain posts. Whether their employees include judges, police officers, defence forces or anyone, that is up to the legislator. It cannot be considered unconstitutional that a special pension was withdrawn from judges or that persons appointed as judges from 1 July do not have the right to a special pension. But how it affects precisely the best quality of people to become a judicial system, that is what shows, I think, in the next five or ten years. You don't have to jump to conclusions first. I'm not an optimist or a pessimist. It's a real decision. It has been difficult to fill judges in particular in certain rural areas, such as Ida-Virumaa, Valga and Võru, where competitions have been weak or failed. There is no topic in Tallinn, and I do not think that this topic will come to Tallinn either, regardless of pension or anything else. Here we may also have to take into account what Priit Pikamägi said some time ago from this very talking point that the creation of certain regional concessions or guarantees should be considered very carefully. This is once again an extremely difficult issue. I understand that it is always very difficult to derogate from the basic rule. If you make an exception, the exception can become a rule. But I am pleased that the Riigikogu is interested in these serious problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U25	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U26	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr President of the Supreme Court, for your presentation and the good work done over the years. I am asking about two aspects of the development of the judicial system, which I would not call a conflict. Priit Pikamäe has a slightly different opinion on the organisation of court administration. The first and second steps are currently at the Ministry of Justice; the Supreme Court is on its own. Your opinion has been different. Maybe you'll explain it a little bit, because there's some law of the courts behind it. Do you, for example, give reasons for your opinion on this integrated system? What are the benefits of this system?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U27	Good questioner! Priit Pikamäe and I were in a very different situation here. When I was the Minister of Justice, I thought that such a court order, court administration, as has basically been in force until now, was fine. When I became head of the Supreme Court, it took me a year and a few months to realize that the Minister, or myself, had been wrong. I think Mr Pikamäe is a very well-educated and smart young man who reaches that conclusion faster than I did. The problem can be discussed one way, the other way and the third way. First of all, it must be based on the Constitution, which makes it very clear that there are three branches of power and that the judicial system is a separate branch of power. How much this branch of power has to deal with governance issues and how much it either supports justice or intervenes in it is a problem in itself. This is the place of consideration and the decision often depends on specific persons in office. However, the fate of one branch of power must not depend on it. There's gotta be exactly how it works. For example, let us take budgetary issues. I am not going to go on with this, but I am saying that the judicial system should be able to have a strong influence on its own budget, to base it. In my view, a representative of the judiciary should be present in Parliament in defending the budget, which has not happened so far. Secondly, as far as the administration of court houses is concerned, hardly anyone imagines that in black toars, the judiciary is first in charge of the administration of houses. For this purpose there is a well-functioning State Real Estate AS and all of this is feasible by means of lease contracts and service contracts. I also cannot imagine the judicial system having to deal with the development of information technology or other things. However, the role of core functions in the analysis of judicial decisions, as well as in staff matters, which we are always talking about here, should be up to the judiciary itself. There's another nuance that hasn't been able to unravel. It is said that the administration of courts must be at the Supreme Court or the Ministry of Justice. This is the wrong approach! The judicial system has to deal with its own administration. In other words, all three steps must be seen as a single constitutional institution; it must have a right of self-regulation. There are currently no political parties in the parliament that recognise the right of self-regulation of the Estonian judicial system.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U28	Please, my colleague Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U29	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Honourable President of the Supreme Court, I join in all my thanks. But my question is about the training of judges. You mentioned the training of judges in different areas on several occasions. I would like to clarify through the question how the training of judges in the field of human rights is being done. Will this take place mainly in Estonia or will international opportunities be used for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U30	The training of judges must have been organised by the training department of the Supreme Court for the last six years. I dare confirm that the training has received the required good quality. The training takes place as planned, according to the plans of the training council, with the use of lecturers from both Estonia and abroad, various forms of work are used. External training shall also be used as far as possible. Pretty accurate information about how many hours someone's been trained, I can't say for understandable reasons right now, but all the opportunities that have been offered have been exhausted. In my opinion, training is not the area of concern that should be dealt with at the level of the Riigikogu. It's working. Everything can always be done better, everything can be developed further, but compared to the time when we even made a public procurement to find a trainer or dealt with it by the Estonian Legal Centre of the Foundation, the current system works. It is not administratively right that this department is located with the Supreme Court, but the system functions on the basis of very specific plans and efficiently, independently of the wishes or will of the Supreme Court's administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U31	Please, Mr Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U32	Thank you, good manager. Head of the Supreme Court! I hope that your successors will come to this hall with just some meaningful reports. But my question is based on the last sentence of your report and the most recent recommendation on the introduction of the Collegian Procedural Principle of Surveillance Permits. Could you give me a little more details on how you see this model coming? It is widely known that there have been black sheep in the judicial system, as in other institutions. Of course, it is much less possible for the black sheep to act as a flock. What exactly do you think this model would look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U33	I tend to think that the answer you want from me, Mr. Laane, is in this Chamber. Once this answer has been given, the Chancellor of Justice and the President of the Republic can turn to the Supreme Court and check the constitutionality of this answer during the abstract norm audit. If this should come out in the context of a specific case, everyone will have the same opportunity in constitutional review proceedings to check the regulation that would answer your question from a constitutional point of view. The question of the parable, the answer to the parable.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U34	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U35	Thank you for referring to my suit today. But what I'm trying to say is that a collegial form of decision-making has always been more effective, more prudent, more thoughtful than one person's. I imagine that a provision should be made in the Constitutional Review Courts Act. Election appeals are examined in three formations, in the same way in certain cases the executive and prosecutor's office must be given the opportunity to address the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court, where the application is examined and the decision is taken within a short period of time (an electoral appeal is examined within seven days, its deadline may be even shorter). Either way, this is an area where, as I said, the right of appeal cannot be exercised. At the same time, it makes no sense to fix at law level that this supervision should be carried out, for example, by the Chairman of the Administrative College, the Chairman of the Criminal College or by someone else, because people get sick, they get reduced or whatever. This should be left to the decision of the internal organisation of work of the Supreme Court, but at the level of the law there must be a basis for how long and what composition will review this issue. In the same way, the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court reviews complaints against the decisions of the Riigikogu (it has had to be done). The President's decisions have not yet been challenged, but this possibility exists. The creation of one additional basis should not increase the workload, but it would certainly create a clearer, more prudent and more authoritative level. I stress that there are too many fears, legends and myths in this area, which no society really needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U36	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear President of the Supreme Court! I'm gonna ask you about the e-elections. Namely, the City Council of Tallinn applied to the Supreme Court to declare the section of the Local Government Election Act which deals with the electronic vote incompatible with the Constitution and invalid. At the time, the Supreme Court rejected this application because it found that the principle of uniformity of elections, on which the Tallinn City Council relied, was not considered as constitutional guarantee for the local government, so the application of the Tallinn City Council was not acceptable and was not accepted. At least two non-profit associations and two individual candidates have addressed the Supreme Court with similar requests. All these applications have been rejected and have not been accepted. You may explain why the Supreme Court does not want to discuss e-elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U38	The Supreme Court wants to discuss all matters for which there is a legal basis. All these motives why the Supreme Court did not take matters of yours into the proceedings exist in the regulations and decisions given by the Supreme Court. It is not possible to decide whether or not we are discussing this matter, but it is not discussed. We take opinions from all parties to the proceedings. The first thing considered in the constitutional review is the admissibility of the application. If there is a conviction that the application is not admissible, as you yourself said here, it will not be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U39	Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U40	Thank you, Madam President. Chairman of the Supreme Court, I would like to thank you both for today's presentation and for the good answers, in fact for all previous presentations. However, with my question, I will include a broader perspective on time. Perhaps you will bring out to us here before the Riigikogu a few keywords that you consider to be an achievement during your period of service as the Chairman of the Supreme Court, and perhaps a few problems that will remain for the successor to the coat to solve. Can we get such a summary list of keywords?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U41	Good questioner! I haven't thought about it because I still have quite a few months to do my job. I am definitely working on this subject. But what can I say? The President of the Supreme Court is not a single institution that directs any developments, but is one of the judges. On the other hand, he is the administrator of a small Estonian court, the right one in a small court. All the efforts I have spoken of here in the context of my presentations have been important to me. Some of them have been realized, some have not. I tend to think that whoever is the next or the next head of the Supreme Court, if he wants to do his job with his heart, the worries and problems will continue for a long, long, long time and always. But I have had the pleasure and happiness of participating in the process that the judicial system has begun to feel itself as a corps of judges. In particular, I would like to thank those people, including members of the Riigikogu, who have been part of the court administration council throughout the ages. The sense of responsibility for the proper functioning of justice has increased considerably. During this time, trust in the judicial system has certainly increased. Whether I've had a chance to get involved or to contribute to this, I don't know. In any case, I have done everything in my power not to undermine this trust. There are still other issues. But I am pleased (we are of the highest rankings, right) that the World Economic Forum has put Estonia's justice system in the 21st place among 144 countries. We have nothing to be ashamed of. But we know that democratic development requires two very important things: a free press and an independent judicial system. I have had the opportunity to maintain and develop this independent judicial system during this period.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U42	Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U43	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable President of the Supreme Court, thank you very much for all the straight and bright answers you have given us over these years! But my question is about the immunity and surveillance procedure of a member of the Riigikogu. In many cases, there is a suspicion that we have among us sheep of dark gray hair, not black sheep, but dark grey sheep. Such doubts are raised and their confirmation or removal is currently under serious question because, unfortunately, law enforcement authorities do not dare, can and do not want to make certain decisions. What do you think this position might be, or should be, how to proceed? Where to find out if a member of the Riigikogu who has a mandate here for four years is out of control of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Dear President of the Supreme Court, thank you very much for your report. Recently, however, the question arose of the status and fate of the institution of the judges of the people in the Estonian judicial system. One part thinks that the institution of public judges is rather a disturbing rudiment or an obsolescence, and the other thinks that the system of public judges is necessary and should certainly be developed further. It is also said that those who work with the judges of the people are opposed to the system, and those who run the judicial system are in favour of the system. What is your position on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U45	I must admit that you are exceptionally well informed about the subject. The court administration council discussed this and we came to the conclusion that it is not reasonable to abandon the institution of public judges at the moment. However, it was concluded that this institute should be further developed. In other words, people's judges must be involved in the public, perhaps as specialists and experts. Law has become very complex, it deals with everything, from medical law to business nuances and everything else. It would perhaps be easier for a judge with a lawyer education if he were not to rely not only on expert opinions and expert opinions, but perhaps people who know the subject could be found in the same formation of the court. That's where the thought moves. You have pointed out that people who work with public judges are often in trouble because it is difficult to organise a hearing. There's a lot of other things. It's a practical side now. But if we take the goal close to ideal, then there is something that should replace public involvement in this case. In fact, all those who think about the subject from this point of view have great fear that the idea of creating a jury will arise. This is our legal system, frankly, somewhat difficult to reconcile, I say with somewhat chosen words. You have to choose between different things here. Yes, this institution deserves criticism, but if we continue to think creatively, maybe people's judges will be of much greater benefit in future discussions on complex criminal matters. I agree with this view, although I am inclined to take the view that this system in its current form certainly requires reflection and further development. Under no circumstances must the person involved in the proceedings, for example the judge of the people, be an obstacle to justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U46	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear President of the Supreme Court, I also thank you for these excellent and very good presentations in the Riigikogu during these years! However, in one of your previous replies, you said that it would not be acceptable to process applications for e-votes. How permissible or suitable for the development of society is the increasingly widespread, conditionally speaking, use of identity theft in e-votes? The ID card will be passed on to other people, all the cards of the carers will be collected in the care centre, and someone will use the computer to vote with them, etc. Do you think this is an appropriate development for society?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U48	The short answer is no, no way. But there were so many different legal nuances on your question that an experienced judge of the Penal Code would probably qualify quite a few configurations out of this question. All these things need to be addressed by the relevant legal instruments. The Penal Code contains all the formations you referred to. I think that law enforcement authorities are so capable that they will identify all these situations so that the court can base its assessment on whether it is identity theft, this, the second or the third. Nothing can be resolved on the "slogan" level, all things need to be discussed one by one. If this action is, as you said, massive, then there is certainly a need to analyse this practice and draw conclusions at the level of the legislator. Personally, I do not have the data to show whether these laws should be amended or not, but the wise legislator always knows how to do it himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U49	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U50	Thank you, President of the sitting. Chairman of the Supreme Court, I also thank you and wish you good luck in your future activities! You said in your report that the state reduced the financing of the judiciary by 21.8% compared to 2008. Can you assess how this reduction in funding affected the judicial system?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U51	Let's just say it wasn't just the financing of the judiciary that was reduced. Over the years of the recession, the development of the whole public sector slowed down. It was the same in the court system. It is undoubtedly difficult to maintain your country, including your national independent judicial system, on such a small piece of folk, as is the case in Estonia. This reality must be perceived. When the salaries of judges were reduced, the judiciary was one of the first to show great solidarity with all other civil servants. But this problem isn't solved by giving us money, so we're better justice. Internal resources need to be reviewed. I will come back once again to the same initiative that will be taken. The judicial system has been hired for a perfectly normal salary by a well-prepared group called Advocates-General. This is a good initiative. It is possible that the solution to change the quality and speed of justice is to determine first how many judges and how many auxiliary workers are needed. We are talking about whether 20 judges have not been filled or 16 seats have not been filled. The judge must be the judge; he does not have to be the organiser of the hearing, the co-ordinator or any other such person. This high-paid judge should only be able to do the job that no one else can do in the judicial system. All other work must be shared. So rational use of resources is important. On the other hand, of course, the question arises as to whether we have to compare ourselves so much with others in this regard. It was my business to just bring out these numbers. We could draw conclusions from that. I know that the attitudes and positions of the former Minister of Justice and the current Minister of Justice in this Chamber have been very clear: the judicial system needs financial assistance. We hope that then quality will improve and justice will become faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U52	No further questions. Dear President of the Supreme Court, Märt Rask, I thank you for your presentation and your answer to questions. I thank you, on behalf of all of us, for the work you have done as Chairman of the Supreme Court. I think our cooperation was very good because we sent you to the Supreme Court as chairman from this hall, you know how the Riigikogu works. Thanks again! I think this cooperation has been excellent! Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for the floor as a representative of the Group of the Rait Maruste Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U53	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Chairman of the Supreme Court! The reconstruction of democratic rule of law in Estonia has continued for one generation. The results are visible and perceived. A central part of this has been the third branch of power at the court. The continuous development of the legal base of the judicial system has contributed to this; people who work in court and, more generally, in the legal system as a whole, have played an important role in the implementation of this legal basis for development. Many thanks and congratulations for the work they have done! The increase in trust in the judiciary stands out on a daily basis. In the event of disagreements or disputes, the parties shall allow access to court in order to establish a right there. I mean, they trust the court, they're hoping to get help from there. I note that this was not the case 20 years ago. When I tried to tell the judges who were in office about justice and justice, one of the chief judges of that time told me that what to talk about justice here, we had a trial. Today, however, we are talking about justice. This is an important shift and change in attitudes and mentality. I would like to follow up on some of the problems that I and our group may think are more important. The President of the Supreme Court mentioned the implementation of constitutional review court decisions and pointed out that several decisions have not been taken or have not been carried out in any way. Indeed, this is not in line with good legal behaviour under the democratic rule of law. Although there is nothing new and unprecedented here, part of the sin must be confessed. Partly because, unfortunately, not all the shortcomings and omissions highlighted are under the control of the legislator. We have tried to recall these problems and to push them back, but the government, in this case the Ministry of Justice, has not moved forward very quickly with these voluminous drafts. That's not nice. But there were also good messages that progress has been made. The delay in the new version of the State Liability Act has been particularly problematic, which in turn has prevented compensation for a number of violations of fundamental rights. If there is something to recommend to the Supreme Court in constitutional review, it is that more emphasis could be placed on the content of the problems instead of on legality, because the act or action may conflict with the Constitution, not just the law. In fact, evil often lies not in legislation, but in the application of this legislation. When it comes to judicial administration, it has to be said that a major development has been carried out by the Administrative Council. This body and form of work have come a long way in transforming the autonomy of judicial administration into a modern model and in accordance with the Constitution. I hope that this development and its legal regulation will continue. We are trying to support this development. However, the biggest challenge facing the judicial system will be the change of generations of judges in the coming years. About a third of the people in office will be replaced. This exchange must be prioritised in the short term and ensure that the places are not simply filled, but filled with the best people with personal qualities and qualifications. This is a question of the credibility of the legal system; decisions taken on a case-by-case basis have long-lasting and wide-ranging consequences. It is good to note that the current President of the Supreme Court drew attention to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U54	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U55	The Chairman of the Supreme Court highlighted the need to take the scope, necessity and legitimacy of the application of surveillance measures into consideration and control of the judicial system. This is welcome and necessary. Not everything here is as well-founded and well-founded as it is sometimes attempted to show. In the rule of law, the activities of the judicial authorities must be transparent, sound and verifiable. However, I would like to add that a critical review of the whole criminal procedure and its consistency with the modern principles and standards of justice is needed, so that the whole procedure is based on competition, on equality of parties, including prosecution and protection, and on the undesired respect and protection of the rights and freedoms of the parties to proceedings. Finally. Today's appearance before the Riigikogu was the last one for Märt Rask, at least as Chairman of the Supreme Court. I will take this opportunity to thank him for the work he has done and the hard work he has done. I know it hasn't been easy. Thank you, March!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U56	Thank you very much, Mr Rait Maruse. I would like to ask my colleague, Marko Pomerants, as a representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U57	Good President! Dear President of the Supreme Court and ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, there are also some observations. These observations have certainly been added because I am one of the two representatives of the Riigikogu in the court administration council. With me there is Deniss Borodich from the Riigikogu. It is also important that the Committee on Legal Affairs comes into contact, I think, with matters of judicial order and justice a little more than the Committee on Rural Affairs, for example, thanks to its main amps. But now, in a row, these keywords. Certainly, I dare say, for the systematic approach of the whole justice system, including the judicial system, as regards the nature of the problems and the finding of a solution and a remedy to these problems, be it any examples of the speed, quality and other related problems, above all. Years of work will surely be here to bear fruit. I'm assuming that's the way this process is going to go on like this. Indeed, on the issue of court administration, there is the position of Märt Rask and Priit Pikamäe. But maybe just a little marginal note about Priit Pikamäe's approach, which he himself has emphasised. If it were simply a trial in itself, of course, it would be right and it should be held right that all matters of judicial administration and order can be resolved purely within the judicial system itself. On the other hand, we know that politicians also have expectations of judicial proceedings, at least as regards its speed and effectiveness. This is reflected in the coalition agreement. Therefore, the principle that who orders music, not the whole concert, but at least some musical pieces, is also involved in the redemption of the ticket is certainly not wrong. As far as the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights are concerned, the review shows, in spite of the criticisms that have been made from one point of view or another, that is actually not so bad. Of course, that does not mean that there is no problem. With regard to the first example in the overview, it has also been pointed out that, despite the European Court of Human Rights ruling, the punishment remained exactly as the Estonian court had originally appointed it. Speaking of the industriousness of Estonian judges and the achievement of a result with little money, there are probably three groups here who have their own opinion on this matter. The taxpayer is certainly happy about this, the party to the proceedings is either happy or not, depending on the aspect, and the judges of course say that praise is a good thing, but it may not be enough every time. As regards the control of surveillance activities or any surveillance activity as such, I think that in recent years there has been a systemicity or a more systematic approach in the Riigikogu as well. This applies, for example, to discussions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but also, for example, to the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, which has essentially looked at a number of cases, of course, those whose decisions have already entered into force. Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U58	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U59	Of course, it is fashionable to also look at the Estonian judicial system in the light of the 2013 report on human development, where we tend to compare ourselves with others. This comparison is always a little helpful. Finally, the final keyword can be summarised by the abbreviation EIA, which means an aspect of exceptional personal characteristics. We certainly expect that there are people in certain places in the state office who are particularly good and have special personal qualities, but in fact it would be normal for people working in the country, both in the private and public sectors, to have reasonable, nice and good personal qualities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U60	Thank you very much, Mr Pomerants. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Anvelt, to speak as a representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U61	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear President of the Supreme Court! I think we got another good and shiny overview from Mr. Rask today. Regardless of whether this is the last year of his office, the penultimate year or the previous one, I can say, on the basis of as much as I have observed these reports, that they have always been quite critical, with either a hidden or a direct criticism of our hall as well. I will talk a little about the observations I drew today from the hidden or unhidden messages of the President of the Supreme Court, at least for myself. It was very clear here today that one of the major problems facing the whole judicial system, which already exists and may start to get worse in the near future, is the shortage of labour. Here, it is fitting to recall an old wisdom. If two bulls carry the cart at one speed and if one bull is taken away, the other bull will haul the cart out of the old habit of some time at the same rate, but at one point he will fall dead. So we'll be at that spilled wagon, and we'll see that the good thing has gone to waste. Indeed, we have achieved a great deal in 20 years of building our rule of law and the judicial system. Now, and today, we have the question of whether this 20-year-old place in those graphs, where we are in the bright middle, is not going to fall down and whether we are going to fall among the countries with which we do not want to compare ourselves. A very good example is that only some time ago, in the course of this year's budget debate, we were relatively irresponsiblely cutting social guarantees. In fact, we have brought about uncertainty, which will certainly have a negative impact on people's survival in the system. We have done the same with many other public officials, such as the police and defence system. Any political talk, such as about the pension system, will certainly seal the decision of some people to leave the system. Mr. Rask's talk about surveillance was very remarkable. Here, too, there is no overcoming or overcoming labour shortages. We want control of surveillance permits not to be technical, but this can be achieved through an internal substantive discussion by the judge as to whether a surveillance permit is necessary. In fact, there can be no other medicine to develop, democratise and continually align surveillance activities with the Constitution than the fact that, when granting any surveillance authorisation, a judge must not technically but essentially come to the understanding that this decision, which he is making, is necessary and cannot be achieved in any other way. In conclusion, we also come here to the shortage of resources and labour and to the proper organisation of work. When it comes to labour shortages and resources, the question of the judges of the people can certainly also be called into question. Why is it raised? It is also because of resources, as local authorities often do not receive lists of elected judges. Another thing is whether people from all levels of society can be judges of the people, from different spheres of life. I can't. It has remained the property of certain people, often respected by the elderly. I think the principle of the same vigilante... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U62	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U63	... certainly would require that young people, for example, be included among the judges of the people. I studied the judges of the people of Tallinn. There are some younger people on the list, but basically they don't have time or opportunity to do this. There's no compensation system for them to want to be a judge of the people. Then there is the problem that the executive judges see in the Court of First Instance: more time and resources are needed to ensure that this process takes place, where the judges of the people are involved, all matters must be clarified and therefore there is less time to deal with the matter themselves. Due to the lack of resources, we have often talked about the need to simplify the justice system at political level in this very Chamber. I think our justice system is already quite simple. Simplification in the next step may mean that we are losing certain democratic and constitutional principles in the judicial system. For example, when dealing with certain cases, we lose some court level and we come to the principle that we have a court of one degree in substance. As Mr Rask said, the Supreme Court decides whether or not he or she will take a case into consideration. There are many other things that, in the long run, can actually do us a disservice and lower us, whose favorite activities are comparison and who we are in graph-faith, in these tables to a completely different level, that is, where we started to move from. Behind all this resource issue, I see today the stone thrown into our cabbage garden that so far the collective vision of all parties has been that the attitude towards self-regulation should not change. I think that the composition of Parliament will also change. It must be understood that one effective system is on the verge of efficiency, and the next step must mean not a reduction in democracy, but an increase in judgment. Every independent constitutional institution deserves to be able to look inside itself. The judicial system should be able to decide how the court should behave in organisational matters, for example, on the role of the President of the Court. He's a judge now, but we heard how many functions he has. When I conclude my speech, I would first like to thank the President of the Supreme Court for those nine years, when he has suffered from us and, often, the criticism of the people about our judicial system, which at times is justified, but certainly exaggerated at times, often such criticism has also come from the media. I want to emphasise and put it to the heart of all of us that achieving efficiency in the judicial system is important, but financial efficiency must not dominate over substantive efficiency, because then we will do a disservice to the next generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U64	Thank you very much, Mr Anvelt. I call on the speaker's desk as a representative of the Group of the Centre Party of Mailis Reps. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U65	Dear President of the Supreme Court! Ladies and gentlemen, who are still following the debate here in the Riigikogu! The work of the courts in Estonia has undoubtedly improved in a few decades, and the professionalism of the judges has also increased. This has been emphasised several times here today. It has also been stressed that generations have begun to change. The judges appointed in the 1990s have already retired or will do so in the coming years. More and more new judges are taking office who are young and hopefully eager to work. Unfortunately, newcomers cannot fill all vacancies. This was repeatedly pointed out by the current Chairman of the Supreme Court. The subject of human rights has also been on the agenda through criminal proceedings, inter alia, because of the draft initiated by the Central Party Group, which was motivated by the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, with which Estonia has been accused of violating one or the other human rights. Indeed, the draft contains important issues that we should have changed a long time ago by virtue of international law and practice, and certainly we must. In addition to the problems of guaranteeing human rights, there are other important issues in Estonia, such as human resources. We don't have enough investigators or prosecutors. As a result, cases need to be resolved will accumulate and people's sense of justice will suffer. The pre-trial will last for years. At present, there is also the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure in the Riigikogu, which seeks to give the same person the right to be a source of evidence, a witness and a sanctioner, which can significantly impair the quality of objective justice in out-of-court proceedings. The same is true in courts. We have a lack of judges and more and more are given responsibility at lower courts to the Advocates General, which the President of the Supreme Court has also pointed out here. We have no doubt that the Advocates-General are competent, but we must admit that they are lower-skilled officials working in the judicial system. This is one of the factors that could further deteriorate the quality of judicial decisions in the future. There is also a problem with the extremely high workload of judges. It is often quite absurd, as came out of the report today. Continues to send decisions back from the higher court to the court of first instance or your instance, which shows that, in part, due to the workload of work, judgments are still made too many mistakes. Therefore, in certain specific and more difficult cases, we need to consider initiating proceedings at second instance, where there are more specialised judges and certainly more experienced and competent judges. However, the assessment of the quality of the decisions cannot be based solely on the number of judgments returned. There may still be cases where the level of the decisions is poor, but there may be no appeal, as appeals may not be made because of lack of money or other circumstances. The faction of the Riigikogu of the Centre Party considers that the abolition of special retirement pensions for judges was definitely the wrong step. A special pension is one guarantee which ensures the objectivity and neutrality of the person in that position and reduces the risk of pressure on him. Pressure can also be considered, for example, when a favourable decision is made in anticipation of a later good job or other benefit. The special pension is set out, albeit in a slightly different wording, namely as a package of social benefits, also in various reports and proposals by international anti-corruption organisations, be it Transparency International, GRECO or Moneyval. All of them stress that a judge's monthly salary, even if it is high or much higher than the average monthly salary, may not be sufficient compared to all the corrupt benefits offered. Experts estimate that the overall social package, including the later pension package, can often be one of the most effective ways of curbing corruption. Due to the lack of judges and the constant talk of Estonia being overcriminalised, the question arises of the principle of legality, i.e. the initiation of criminal proceedings. The current principle of absolute legality is certainly not relevant in the long term. In certain cases, it must remain, in some cases, certainly, but the rule should still be the principle of opportunity. This position has been supported by several colleagues from the Riigikogu and has also been supported outside the parliament. First of all, we must be guided by the principle that if the victim himself does not want criminal proceedings, the state should not have to spend its resources to do so either. The judicial system of some European countries has developed special investigators whose work includes the assessment and decision-making of search requests, arrests and other acts. In Estonia, this work is done by a regular judge alongside ordinary processes. If the same system were to be introduced in Estonia, the competing principle of court proceedings could be better applied, including criminal investigations. This would give the suspect the opportunity to disprove the evidence prior to prosecution or, on the contrary, the investigator would be able to confirm the nature of the offence. It is therefore important and possible to exclude lower levels of justice in the case of more serious matters. By doing so, we could reduce the barrages on people's fundamental rights. A number of representatives of the Supreme Court have also raised the issue of the need for reorganisation of judicial levels. At the same time, this instance will help to shorten the time limits for criminal investigations. In the Working Group on Criminal Procedure, Norman Aas also stated that the deadlines for criminal investigations are a problem, but the investigating authorities are already working on the labour force. Better coordination of criminal investigations would reduce the workload of police departments and thus reduce the work of judicial authorities so as not to suffer substantive justice, which would improve the protection of people's fundamental rights, as the accused can prove his innocence in the presence of the investigating judge without being prosecuted and given his good name in the long legal proceedings. Finally, the role of judges in society is important and balanced. Despite scarce resources, this work has been very well done. On behalf of our group, I would also like to thank the President of the Supreme Court for his long and very competent work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U66	Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps. As the representatives of all the political groups have been able to do so, I will conclude the negotiations and also the debate on this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U67	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending section 22 of the Law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Member of the Culture Committee of the Speaker's Board Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act amending § 22 of the Study Grants and Student Loan Act 334 was initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party on 3 December last year. The first reading of the Riigikogu's plenary session was on 26 March, the deadline for submitting amendments was 10 April. No amendments to the draft were tabled by this time from the members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups. In addition to having the opinion of the Government of the Republic and the Social Affairs Committee at the disposal of the Committee on Culture, the Committee on Culture also asked for the opinion of the Ministry of Social Affairs on the draft. The Commission discussed the draft at its meeting on 23 May. At this meeting, it also emerged from the replies sent to the Commission that all the parties involved supported the procedure of this draft and also supported the draft proposals and the purpose of the draft, to ease the situation of the parents of children with disabilities who have taken up student loans. However, a number of circumstances were raised. The draft had to do with the removal of the student loan and the waiver of the debtor's obligations towards the parent, and with the fact that the parent should receive support for the care of the child. However, unequal treatment may occur here, since the payment of the grant depends on the decision of the local government. Thus, not all parents are treated in a uniform manner. The requirement to not work also limits the ability of parents to work with only part-time care. In the Commission, the idea arose of not applying these restrictions. As the number of people for whom the obligation to meet the obligations of the borrower is waived would be increased if this draft were to enter into force as a law, the beneficiaries were also considered in terms of the degree of disability. The Commission took the view that at present only parents caring for a child with a deep disability should be restricted. In addition, it was discussed that the Ministry of Social Affairs intends to carry out a more in-depth analysis of grants and services for this target group. The Ministry of Social Affairs is currently working on this, and it is planned to develop these measures in a complex way through financial support for the next financial perspective. In these circumstances, the Commission proposed an amendment to the draft. On 23 May, the Commission decided to take full account of this decision of the Committee on Culture. It was proposed that the reading of this draft be included on the plenary agenda, taking into account this proposal, on 6 June, and that the plenary be invited to close the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U69	Thank you very much, Mr Iva. Question from my colleague, Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U70	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good Commission waitress! In the committee, the opinion of the representative of the Social Committee who took part in the committee as an exchange member, as well as the members of the committee in our political party, was that we would not only like to restrict ourselves to supporting the parents of children with a deep disability. As a coalition ambassador, you can certainly say how likely we will come back to this question to look at the situation of parents of children of a different level of disability.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U71	I think that's a pretty high probability. As I was referring to, in the Ministry of Social Affairs these issues are being discussed. They are viewed in conjunction with other measures, not only on student loans. So there will certainly be a return to this issue. In this, I believe, however, we agree that the first step should be taken immediately in order to alleviate precisely the most difficult situation in which a child has a serious disability.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U72	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U73	Thank you. I would like to thank the Committee on Culture for its positive approach to our draft. But the text of the bill has changed a little. The essence of the matter is that a student borrower cannot work because he or she must be at home with a disabled child. Because of this wording, as the draft came from the Committee on Culture, it would be necessary to tell the parent of a disabled child why he or she does not have this opportunity. What would a vigilante and a member of the Committee on Culture say to these parents?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U74	I should probably repeat the same previous answer that I gave to my colleague, Ms Reps, in reply to the question. The Ministry of Social Affairs will continue to address this issue in order to find solutions covering student loans and other topics for children of other levels of disability. I think it's positive if we take the first step. It is clear that care needs are greatest and most obvious for children with deep disabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U75	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Iva. Do colleagues want to negotiate? Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 3 December last year, on the International Day of People with Disabilities, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I handed over the draft amendment to § 22 of the Study Grants and Student Loan Act. As a reminder to my colleagues, we wanted the draft to extend the current cancellation of a student loan to persons who have permanently lost their job capacity by virtue of the law to persons who cannot work because of the care of a disabled child and to whom the municipality or the municipality pays the allowance for the care of a disabled child. The first reading of the bill was in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu on 26 March. a. I would like to congratulate the commission, the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Urmas Klaas, and the members of the committee who dealt with the draft very thoroughly, at the request of the initiators, also referred to the Social Affairs Committee for a position on this draft and asked for additional information from the Ministry of Social Affairs. Under the leadership of Margus Tsahkna, the draft was supported by the Social Democratic Party Group in the Social Committee. Despite the decision by the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 27 December last year not to support the draft 334, the Committee on Culture decided to close the first reading and continue to deal with it. Today, 6 June, the draft is at second reading. Despite the fact that the draft proposed by the Social Democratic Party Group could have removed the student loan for parents of children with both deep and severe disabilities, today we have before us a draft which only deletes the student loan for parents of a child with a deep disability. It is a pity that because of lack of money or because it was not a promise recorded in the coalition agreement, there is a difference between parents of children with severe and deep disabilities. Despite the fact that, for example, the state finances municipalities so that they can provide childcare services for children with deep and severe disabilities, which is very right! There is now a law in which a parent of a child with a severe disability but in need of a high maintenance load is deprived of the possibility to erase a student loan. However, it does not have the opportunity to go to work because there are no other supporting services. As we have heard in the Commission, in 2013 the Ministry of Social Affairs plans to carry out a thorough review of services for disabled children, but at the moment it depends on the place of residence and the financial possibilities of the municipality whether these services are available. They are often absent at all. A little bit of numbers. As of 1 January 2013, there were 767 children with a deep disability, 648 of whom grew in a private household. There were 5321 children with severe disabilities. In total, there were 9983 disabled children. As of December 2012, a total of 869 parents, usually their mother, were paid carers' allowance for caring for a child with severe or severe disability across Estonia. According to our draft, these 869 parents receiving carer support would have been entitled to apply for the cancellation of a student loan. Several colleagues, members of the Riigikogu have said that I will now have my law, but I really want to thank the Kairi Parts, who very openly wrote in the Touch Points magazine about the story of their family and how 25 euros should be paid for student loans. It is not enough that we unanimously ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities on 21 March 2012. Steps and actions are needed that actually protect these rights. For good colleagues, I recommend that you read the Touch Points magazine, because we all get it every month. You don't have to think about what to do to help people with special needs and their family members. All we need to do is listen to them, so that they can change or create laws that actually help them, which make them feel that their country cares about them even if they are not taxpayers, but needy. I quote again at the Kairi Parts: 'So I have graduated from three schools and sit at home and care for my sick child. I live in increasing poverty, although I could be useful to society. I live in the wrong place with my troubled family, in the land. The country doesn't need us. He doesn't need the skills and the stakes of our kind, he just needs to get back that loan. ' Finally. I would like to live in a country where young people study, love, marry, give birth to children where they do not have to think that they may have a child with a severe or deep disability because they know that the country does not leave them in trouble. It is our duty to establish laws or to change them to respect people's rights and justify their hopes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U77	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. There is one amendment to the draft law, tabled by the Committee on Culture, which has been fully taken into account. My colleague Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U78	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U79	All right! That's why we have to invite people to the hall. I am delighted to do so, colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall vote on the first amendment tabled by the Committee on Culture, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please vote! 34 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 14 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. I can therefore say that the second reading of bill 334 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U80	The last item on our agenda is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali'. I would like the Secretary of Defense, Urmas Reinsalu, to give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U81	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft decision to allow the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in Mali on the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peacebuilding Mission to obtain the mandate of the MINUSMA Parliament. The Council of the European Union announced, by decision of 17 January 2013, the establishment of the European Union Training Mission in Mali, based on a request from the President of the Republic of Mali and a UN Security Council resolution. Two Estonian Defence Forces are currently participating in this training mission. This mission is important to us, because the priority of the Estonian state is to participate in the implementation of the European Union's common security and defence policy. It is also very important that Mali's mission is becoming the European Union's most important military mission, to which 22 Member States are already contributing. I stress that the objective of the European Union Training Mission is to provide military and training advice to the Malian Armed Forces with a view to helping them restore Mali's territorial integrity. Our militia aren't involved in combat. The total size of this mission is approximately 550 military personnel. We are seeking a mandate from Parliament for the deployment of up to eight members of the Defence Forces on this mission. This mission consists of two parts: two staff officers would remain in office and a six-member group of instructors would start providing military training to Malian soldiers. These instructors would be on a training mission in the Nordic-Baltic training team with Finnish, Swedish and Lithuanian Defence Forces. In addition, we are also applying for Parliament's mandate to accompany the new United Nations peacekeeping mission. This mission was established by a UN Security Council resolution at the end of April this year. For the most part, this is a traditional peacekeeping operation. The African mission to AFISMA, which is already in operation in Mali, will be transferred under the leadership of the UN. The second part of MINUSMA consists of counter-terrorism activities in which bilateral agreements have been concluded with France, which will continue with Operation Serval. Within the framework of this UN peacekeeping mission, we are seeking the inclusion of up to two members of the Defence Forces in MINUSMA. The Defence Forces will contribute to the management of African military units and police units transferring MINUSMA, with staff officers who are very required there, in order to achieve the objectives set. Finland, Norway and France, which are important to us, have also shown a willingness to contribute. This will also enable us to cooperate with close allies during this operation. The costs of participating in both missions shall be set out in the expenditure for the current financial year in the general line setting out the costs of external missions. The Defence Forces are prepared to deploy a team of instructors of six members to the European Union Training Mission in accordance with the rotation cycle as of August. There are already two staff officers there on the basis of a general mandate given by Parliament. As of July, two members of the Defence Forces would go on a UN peacekeeping mission established under a UN Security Council resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U82	Thank you very much, Minister of Defence. Please, colleague Margus Hanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U83	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! We know that this is a French environment. Do our instructors have to speak French? Is finding these people a problem, or are there candidates already?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U84	Thank you. The Defence Forces are capable of providing this personnel. In the case of instructors, the requirement to speak French is not an indispensable condition. But in the case of staff officers, we will take this aspect into account. Instructors receive interpreters teaching African military personnel to ensure that their training is impeccable.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U85	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U86	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, EUR 150000 is the cost of this draft. Does this concern only the six people who are still being posted, or is there also the cost of missions for two people who are already in Mali?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U87	Thank you. According to the explanatory memorandum, the total cost of Mali's mission is EUR 125000, including personnel costs, economic costs and procurement. The logic of the explanatory memorandum is that it should cover all mission costs for all members of the Defence Forces deployed there. But for the sake of regularity, good questioner, I say that's my interpretation. I'm sure I'll specify if the explanatory statement has been drawn up with that logic. But the assumption is that when it comes to a single mission, the total cost of this mission has been described.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U88	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of Defense. Aivar Riisalu, vice-chairman of the National Defence Commission, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U89	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed this draft decision before submitting it to first reading. a meeting on 22 May. As representatives of the initiator of the draft act, the Defence Minister Urmas Reinsalu and the Head of the Department of Defence and Operations of the Ministry of Defence Riho Rõngulep participated in the session. Previously, during the coordination of the draft in the Government of the Republic, the Ministry of Defence received its proposals from Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, and Aivar Engel, Head of the Advisor-Secretariat, which is why it is relatively likely that no amendments to the draft will be tabled in the committee. The draft under discussion also relates to the National Defence Committee. a meeting of 4 June, at which the Commission received an overview from the Chief of Staff of the Defence Forces, Commander Igor Schvede, and other military officers, of the events taking place in the international mission areas with the involvement of the Defence Forces, including an overview of the readiness of the Defence Forces to participate in the above-mentioned missions. As a Member State of the European Union, it is important for Estonia to contribute to the implementation of the common security and defence policy of the European Union, including participation in the European Union Training Mission in Mali, as provided for in point 1 of the draft. When the Riigikogu gives the mandate, it is now the only military mission of the European Union in which Estonia participates. As we know, the Estonian Defence Forces' ship defence team ceased to participate in the European Union anti-piracy operation in Atalanta. on 24 May 2008. I'm coming back to Mali's mission. Estonian Defence Forces do not participate in military operations, as the Minister said, but are involved in training and advising the Malian Armed Forces. The background is so much that in Mali, our Russian language skills may also be better than those of our Defence Forces, because the local army has Soviet technology for historical reasons, so it makes sense to help them put some Russian-language forms into English for allies. According to paragraph 2 of the draft, the Estonian Defence Forces and up to two of their staff officers are participating in the UN peacekeeping mission in Mali, the Mali operation is also becoming a United Nations mission. Estonia is currently participating in the oldest UNTSO peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria since 1997. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace in crisis regions. In view of the above, the National Defence Committee has decided on its s. At the meeting on 22 May 2013, by consensus, the Riigikogu Board was invited to include the draft decision for the first reading on the agenda of the session of the Riigikogu on 6 June 2013. The rapporteur was appointed here. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the first reading of the draft decision and, on the basis of § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, to ask the Chairman of the Riigikogu to set the deadline for submitting amendments. 12 June at 5.15 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-06_U90	Thank you very much, Mr Riisalu. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? They don't seem to want to. I will set the deadline for the submission of 437 amendments. 12 June at 5.15 p.m. First reading of Bill 437 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, We have finished dealing with the items on the agenda. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 12.15 p.m.
