ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-13_U1	Good morning, good fellows, honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 17th working week Thursday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. There's no call. Let's move on to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has decided that, in connection with the appointment of Mart Laar as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, Andrus Saare, is based today, 13 June. The Board of the Riigikogu has registered a member of the Group of the Andrus Saare Isamaa and Res Publica Union of the Riigikogu. Is this not against these decisions? No, it's not. Thank you. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has approved the following changes in the composition of committees: firstly, as a member of the Cultural Commission of the departure of member of the Riigikogu Kaia Iva and as a member of the National Defence Committee, secondly, as a member of the Cultural Committee of the Member of the Riigikogu Andrus Saare. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 75 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 26.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-13_U2	Let's get to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Penal Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We can start preparing the final vote. I will put draft 413 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft law amending the Penal Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 413 has been passed as a law. The first item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-13_U3	We will move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law 425 amending the Aliens Act and the Law on identity documents initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Mart Nuti, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-13_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Yesterday, some of the questions raised by Mr Stalnukhin remained unanswered at second reading. I'm trying to give them an answer. The draft does not give the opportunity to bring a top specialist to Estonia under the urgency procedure, who is paid double the average gross monthly wage in Estonia, not to all companies, but to those who are reliable and have history, have been registered in Estonia for more than a year and have such economic activity, which really contributes to the development of the Estonian economy. For this purpose, § 106 (4) proposed must meet at least one of the following conditions: firstly, the company has at least EUR 65000 of capital invested in business activities in Estonia; secondly, the company's sales revenue is at least EUR 200000 per year; third, the social tax paid monthly in Estonia for persons working in the company is equal to the social tax paid monthly in Estonia for at least five times the average gross monthly wage for the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-13_U5	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's a lot of noise coming from all over the hall. It will certainly disturb the waitress and disturb the listeners. Please, let's honor both the listeners and the waitress! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-13_U6	The debate on the content of point 3 has arisen. Social tax paid monthly in Estonia for persons employed by the company shows the amount of wages actually paid. Essentially, the provision in point 3 means that people working in a company must receive at least five times the average gross monthly wage in Estonia. This does not mean, however, that there should be five people at work, each with an average gross monthly wage, but different options are possible. First, there may be five employees, some of whom receive more wages and some less than the average gross monthly wage in Estonia, but in total their salary is at least five times the average gross monthly wage in Estonia. Secondly, the salary of all employees or some employees may be lower than the average gross monthly wage in Estonia, but their total wage is at least five times the average gross monthly wage. Thirdly, there may be fewer than five employees, each or some of whom is less than the average gross monthly wage, but their total wage is at least five times the average gross monthly wage in Estonia. According to the amendments to the Aliens Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2012, the same criterion is also a condition for continuing to hold a residence permit for business purposes. This criterion is adequate for the assessment of the actual economic activity of the undertaking, easily measurable and not proportionate to the burden on the undertaking. The number of jobs has been established on the basis of the following considerations: The majority of companies in Estonia are micro-enterprises with up to nine employees. Since the purpose of a temporary residence permit for entrepreneurship is, among other things, to create jobs in Estonia, it is reasonable to base the number of jobs created on at least the average number of employees of a micro enterprise. As a result of the above, it is justified to provide for the total remuneration paid to employees at a rate that is equal to the social tax paid monthly in Estonia for at least five times the average gross monthly wage. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments to the Aliens Act, which will facilitate the introduction of highly qualified foreign workers and researchers into Estonia, are about to come to the final vote. These legislative changes make it much easier to apply for a residence permit to work as a top specialist or study in Estonia. This allows Estonian companies to recruit a top specialist during the week's days, allowing an alien to apply for a residence permit in Estonia on the spot after arriving here. Simplifying residence permits for top specialists and researchers will have a positive impact on the development of the Estonian economy and society. Applying highly qualified people to the Estonian economy or science will increase the competitiveness of the state. There is widespread practice in developed countries that preferential conditions are created for top specialists and investors when applying for residence permits. This legislative amendment affects precisely those companies that need highly qualified workers. At present, it is difficult for such companies to compete in the market because there is a lack of qualified labour in Estonia. The competitiveness of research institutions will also benefit from the introduction of foreign researchers and lecturers to Estonia. These legislative amendments do not allow for a cheap inflow of labour. They only concern people who produce high added value and help meet sector labour needs. One of the prerequisites for obtaining a simplified residence permit is that companies pay the required top specialists at least twice the average salary in Estonia. At the same time, bringing qualified professionals to Estonia cannot be the only measure to improve competitiveness. It is essential to make use of Estonia's own resources, including the use of older specialists and the recall of workers who have left Estonia. Therefore, inviting qualified professionals is still an aid measure. At the same time, the amendment does not change the essence of Estonia's migration policy. Estonia remains a country with a conservative migration policy, which has also been the main position of the IRL. Please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-13_U7	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Central Party to Mikhail Stalnukhini! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-13_U8	Mr President! I just couldn't hear the last performer in the hall, I hope there is. The Centre Party Group does not support the adoption of this law for three reasons. First reason: this law is immoral. At a time when the labour migration from Estonia is growing, when it is said that our people need to be returned, those who, for a small salary, are not 1800 euros for a top manager will actually eat out our specialists. But it's one of the best scenarios. The second reason why this bill cannot be taken seriously is technical. Ladies and gentlemen, I have reviewed the Social Tax Act. It sets the social tax rate at 33% and it also talks about how benefits can be obtained, but it does not mention that social tax can simply be agreed with someone or put everything in a bucket, i.e. viewed as collective remuneration. Colleagues, does it not seem strange to you that this law is being made for the first time in a way that social tax is being levied from a group, as was the case with Mr Nut's explanation? Since you do not have the text on the table anyway, I will read this provision to you: 'The social tax paid monthly in Estonia for persons employed by the company is at least equal to the social tax paid monthly in Estonia for five times the average gross monthly wage per year. ' It is clear from this that if a person comes as a top manager, he will be charged social security contributions for a minimum of five gross monthly wages. Considering that the average gross monthly wage for the previous year was EUR 900, it is five times 4500 and 33% of it is EUR 1500. How do you intend to legitimise the fact that social tax will be charged on a group? That's really interesting! But these two reasons are that there is amorality and that is contrary to the already existing law, it is not the most important. I think this law is a major threat to the internal security of Estonia and the European Union as a whole. I do not know what top executives you intend to look for from third countries, but if there is a person who has studied in a terrorist school or there is some underworld character who wants to enter the European Union from his country, then after the adoption of this law, he will be the easiest to do so through Estonia. In the first month, it will cost EUR 1800 to pay plus social tax EUR 1500. Next month, he may already be paid a minimum wage because there is also such a provision in the law that, if he changes his employer, the obligation to pay double gross wages no longer exists, he may be paid 300 euros and that is it. Social tax will remain, i.e. it will become even more funny - 300 euros of wages and 1500 euros of social tax. But it sums up an amount that isn't a problem for a decent underworld character or terrorist, plus some delta, because companies like the one where Stelmach, Raudne, and others were active can come up with packages, dozens and dozens. There are hundreds of companies with a turnover of 200,000 euros a year and which work for more than 12 months in Estonia, and this law gives them a very beautiful and easy way to earn money from those who aspire to the European Union at some criminal request. It's an objective reality, you open these doors. You have no requirement in this Act other than that a top specialist within the meaning of this section is a foreigner with professional qualifications in any field, who is paid these two average gross monthly wages. In any field! He could be either a painter or a titler or whoever, he's got prep. You're not talking about having some experience that he should have run a company with the same profile for a while so that education should correspond to his profession. You're just gonna let in anyone who wants and who's willing to shut up 12,000 to, I think, 20,000 euros. What's going on is crazy! What's the top executive who's going to work for the EUR 1800 salary, can you tell me? We don't have top executives like that. Do I really need to remind you of Estonian Air and the top executive of this company? Ladies and gentlemen, we certainly need programmes that would make the people who have migrated from Estonia a pleasant return to our country. They have work to do. And by the way, this has already been discussed by both the President and other senior officials. You are now going to adopt a law that is contrary to our other laws, which are immoral and which threaten the security of the European Union. But you do what you want, we'll vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-13_U9	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us move to the preparation of the final vote on the draft 425. I will put draft 425 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 52 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 15 against and no abstentions. Draft 425 of the Act amending the Aliens Act and the Identity Documents Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law. The second item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-13_U10	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the amendment of other laws. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Kaja Kallas, Chairman of the Economic Commission!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-13_U11	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission of the Riigikogu discussed the second reading of the draft law amending the competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws on 3 June. and decided to support all the amendments tabled. In general, the amendments were of a technical nature, with the exception of Amendment 4, which extends the limitation period for infringements of competition law to three years (two years according to the current law). This is justified by the fact that competitive misdemeanours are complex misdemeanours and analogous to tax misdemeanours and, if they expire in two years, the procedure does not reach correct solutions. I would point out that in the case of misdemeanours, the limitation period will not stop when the case comes to court, which means that the judgment will have to be passed within that time. So it is too short a time to deal with these matters properly. The Commission unanimously supported this amendment. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 13 June, to propose the termination of the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to send it to the third reading by 19 June 2013 and to adopt it by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-13_U12	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions for you. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us examine the amendments to Bill 321. Six amendments have been received, all from the lead committee. First, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth proposals. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the third item is dealt with. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 10:22 a.m.
