ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 41 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 60 are missing. In today's Question Time, the following members of the government will participate in the duties of Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu Prime Minister, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus Minister of the Environment and Jaak Aaviksoo Minister of Education and Science. As seven issues have been previously registered, only two questions can be asked for each subject on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U2	Starts with my colleague, Mr Simson, who is asking a question to Minister for Defence, Urmas Reinsalu, in the role of Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U3	Thank you. Minister of Defence in his duties as Prime Minister. Broadly ten years ago, the IRL was agreed by the then Res Publica and Reform Party that Siim Kallas would be the first Euro Commissioner. His term of office will be over next year. Estonia must present a new Commissioner-designate. Will the government come out with the candidate before the decision has already entered into force and which criteria does the new Commissioner have to meet?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U4	Thank you. The new Commissioner must, I think, be the man. The general approach taken by Estonia is that people who go to work in various public offices, including the European Union's agencies, must definitely'make Estonia's influence greater', even though the Commissioner does not represent the narrow interests of one Member State in the European Commission. According to the Government's regulation, the Government, acting on a proposal from the Prime Minister of the Commissioner-designate, shall approve the Government. This is quite clearly a government decision; the coalition must form a common position within the government. As the experience of Mr Kallas and the other Member States has shown, it is certainly important that the Commissioner has good relations with others and a proper CV, which will enable him to obtain an adequate level of output in the Commission and thus be able to be a more influential member of the Commission. As far as deadlines are concerned, I think that, at the moment, we have an important European policy to focus precisely on content. But, of course, individuals are important, and in many cases politics revolves around them. The final point is, in fact, that the state must formally submit its Commissioner-designate when a new President of the Commission has been appointed and the names of the candidates have to be sent to him. He will conduct hearings before the European Parliament. So the first step is the elections to the European Parliament next year. On who will become President of the European Commission, European political families have quite different views. We could also hold a political debate in Estonia on how to get to the President of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U6	Thank you. Did I understand correctly from your reply that Estonia will not launch its Commissioner-designate until the June elections next year, and this new Commissioner will be elected from among people who have worked in Estonia at least as a minister? Do you think he must also have previous work experience from the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U7	Thank you. I do not know how many people there are who meet both of these conditions that they must have worked in the Euro Parliament and be a former minister. I guess it's just Ivar Padar that stays on the sieve. But seriously, the government has not discussed the question of a Member of the European Commission in any way. The media has started juggling with different names here, it's natural and it's relevant. We should definitely not encase in one very rigid starting assumption. Some Member States have posted Commissioners to people who are not from a political background or are not in a narrow sense, let us say, from a political career to the European Union. I do not rule that out either. Once again, I stress that the presumption of origin should be that this person, man or woman must be a player so that he can effectively establish himself in a company with a very large number of different personalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U9	Thank you. In fact, there are also at least two former foreign ministers in Estonia who have some professional experience of the European Parliament. But I want to focus on the criterion that the candidate must be able to establish himself in Europe. I get the impression that the government has given a minister a mandate not to defend Estonia's interests. I am now talking about the Minister for Finance, who agreed in mid-April to extend the loan to 19 years for Portugal and Ireland. Interestingly, the prior approval for the extension of the loan was not requested from the Riigikogu; this was not requested from the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs. Did the government discuss the right of the Minister of Finance, on behalf of Estonia, to extend the loans of two countries in the euro area in distress?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U10	Thank you. Yes, the government is discussing those positions concerning the Council of Ministers. I am sure that the decision made by the Minister of Finance in ECOFIN also certainly came to the discussion. As regards the role and influence of the Estonian Parliament in shaping European policies, given the competence that Parliament gained last summer in the area of the stability mechanism, the competence of the Estonian Parliament in European Union matters, when we compare Estonia with other countries in the euro area, is relatively large. I think it is not bad that Parliament has taken such power. In general, when important decisions of the European Union are taken at Commission level, decisions concerning new financial assistance programmes have been taken even at plenary level. There were hesitants, as we remember, critics. Jürgen Ligi doubted whether Parliament could decide this quickly. The Estonian Parliament has acted responsibly and has gathered for extraordinary sessions. This shows that the parliamentary model, which could serve as an example, I believe, has justified itself to a number of other European countries that could give Parliament more of this competence.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U11	Two locally registered questions can now be submitted. Starts with my colleague, Lembit Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U12	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! Personally, I don't like to speculate for so long on posts and people, but if we're talking about this, I'm interested in one thing too. After all, Siim Kallas has done very well. Don't you think Siim Kallas could still be on this post?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U13	Thank you. To tell you the truth, I don't know if there are any formal restrictions. I don't know what Siim Kallas thinks either. Echo Kallas is showing me two fingers. I suppose there will then be a restriction that this post may have two terms of office. Echo is definitely better informed about these matters than I am. But here's what I'm saying, let's not go by any other human approach. I think it makes sense to open this debate. By the way, if I am not mistaken, the previous President of the European Parliament, Jerzy Buzek, proposed that Member States put their Commissioners candidates on the top of the list six months earlier, in the European Parliament elections. This would lead to a stronger mandate for candidates. It's probably a combination of two powers. In Europe, we are also talking about amending the treaties, improving the model of democracy, just as we are talking about the process of the people's assembly in Estonia. Why not improvise on these issues, looking at the future of Europe, the institutional structure of Europe, including the Commissioner?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U14	I would like to ask you the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Black.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I was interested in the terminological side of the subject. You spoke so nicely that the basic criterion is that this person is the man. But you see, the maker is defined differently in every company. Some say that the maker is the one who has many children, the other says that the maker is the one who writes much, the third says that the maker is the one who builds the house. Who do you mean by the man? What if all these criteria come into play? Several times it was said that this person must be the man. So I have an interest in the term.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U16	As I answered the previous question, I would not want to rule out anything. I also don't see the question of a hypothetical candidate being a child-rich homeowner writer. I think there are people in this hall that meet this definition. But the maker is a person who is able to make himself pay for Europe's highly tense internal competition and to gain a position based on its ability to participate in European politics, its persuasiveness and its credibility, so that it has a greater impact than a Commissioner representing a small country could be expected. I think that Siim Kallas is a good example of this. If you look at his actions and the results of his work, it is clear that he is in his political influence, I dare say so, rather at the level of a superpower commissioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U17	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U18	The next question is from my colleague, Sven Mikser, in the role of Minister of Defence, Urmas Reinsalu, as Prime Minister. Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U19	Minister of Defence, acting as Prime Minister. Estonian refugee policy has been the focus of public attention in recent weeks, especially in relation to the rejection of the Afghan interpreter Omar's asylum application. By reference to international practice, the members of the government have not disclosed the grounds for refusing asylum. However, I do believe that the public would be pleased to know whether the government considered this case as a 'technical matter', like all other asylum applications, or whether Omar's request was, however, rather a political issue. After all, Estonia bears some special responsibility for the people who have done their services to us and our defence forces on foreign missions. If this is the last option, would you describe to us how the government generally deals with asylum applications of people who have cooperated with the Estonian Defence Forces and what are the criteria for granting or refusing asylum in such cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U20	Thank you, Honourable Asker. The government did not consider this interpreter's application for asylum to be a political issue. The possibility of asylum applications is a humanitarian act. Estonia has made international commitments in this area. There are a number of conditions under which asylum is granted. This person had already applied for asylum in the past. The Ministry of the Interior has examined these questions and given its answer. At the moment, it was in a formal sense that a person applied for a visa in order to be able to apply for asylum on Estonian soil. This visa application was answered by refusal. It is true that, according to general practice, governments do not comment on these details. I can assure you that the analysis was thorough. Several agencies contributed to this. A clear view is that such requests must be dealt with and processed on a case-by-case basis and must be dealt with prudently. I think it is also important to bear in mind that 11 interpreters serve our contingent in Afghanistan. Omar is one of many Afghans who have contributed to the Estonian contingent. We certainly recognise that these people have contributed. They have done so in the interests of the Afghan State. I would like to emphasise once again that the Estonian Defence Forces are in Afghanistan in order to build a functioning statehood there, including their aim to make the security level of all Afghan residents in such a way that it meets basic requirements.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U21	Please, Mr Sven Mikser, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U22	Thank you for your answer. This hall has given the Estonian Defence Forces the mission to defend Estonia's interests in Afghanistan. This much-sounding statement, which you also reiterated that these issues must be resolved on a case-by-case basis, is certainly correct. But it would sound more convincing in my opinion if we had a positive precedent for dealing with such requests. I would therefore have liked to have seen this interpreter's asylum application received a positive response. However, can you confirm once again here that Estonia's decision to refuse asylum was based solely on an assessment that the applicant would not be at risk if Afghanistan remained, and that the general very conservative attitude of the Estonian Government in the processing and possible satisfaction of any asylum applications did not play a role in the decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U23	Thank you. Now I really have to say that, as far as this analysis is concerned, such exceptional circumstances did not appear there. I do not want to comment any further, nor am I able to comment further. This request was processed, I repeat, the authorities separated from the political input, whether or not our immigration policy is conservative or not. It was based only on the circumstances of the operation. Of course, the role played by this person in supporting our contingent was taken into account and analysed separately, and did this result in exceptional circumstances that could lead to one decision or another. We did not take into account the opinion, to which the questioner referred, that the aim is a precedent in itself, that we should decide on the basis of a precedent for the following and subsequent decisions. It was certainly not the government's intention that in the future, in the light of this precedent, all persons who have supported the Estonian contingent in performing civilian tasks should receive a positive response to their request.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U24	A question registered on the ground, Mr Ossinovski, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U25	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, there are major problems with the services provided to refugees in Estonia. Most people in Estonia who have received refugee status do not receive most of the services prescribed by law, such as housing, adaptation services, etc. So we are essentially not fulfilling many of the international commitments on refugees. In this context, it is surprising that instead of resolving the problem in essence, the Riigikogu procedure has been subject to a government bill that brings the reception centre of refugees together with the expulsion centre, i.e. putting persecuted refugees in their home country together with expelled people who have broken the law or even criminals. In order for society to fully understand our country's attitude towards refugees, a new centre will be created at the Tallinn prison. Does the IRL understand Estonia's business by putting people in need of international protection in prison?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U26	Thank you. I categorically reject this argument. I think it is unfair both to this proposal and to those people who are sincerely doing their job in order for Estonia to fulfil its international obligations and to deal with these matters on the basis of general humanistic principles and the standards of international law. The government certainly has no intention of sending asylum seekers to prison. On the contrary, I think that these proposals have been developed on the basis of an efficiency criterion so that resources can be used in such a way that these conditions can be met for these people. We must bear in mind that the number of people applying for asylum and receiving refugee status has increased exponentially if we look at the 2010 comparison, 2011 and 2012 comparison. This means that we must use the resources to accommodate these people as sustainably as possible. But, of course, it must be based on the commitments we have made and on the universal humane principles. The government will certainly respect them on all proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U27	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of Defense. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U28	Let's go to the next question. My colleague, Mailis Reps, has a question for the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U29	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. In the last few weeks, it has been interesting to read your statements again, as often as before. One of the main points you have made is that two thirds of more than two hundred municipalities have not used teachers' salaries in a targeted way. You have explained that the teachers have not received the promised salary for the first three months. At the same time, you know very well that the control numbers of the Ministry of Finance for the municipalities changed very often, and most municipalities could not determine teachers' salaries until they had received certain numbers and money. Consequently, I have a question as to why you are blacking the municipalities, knowing very well that afterwards, in most of these municipalities, the pay of teachers has actually increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U30	Thank you, good questioner! I think that the issue of teachers' pay cannot be removed from the agenda before teachers' wages have not only been paid out in the amount that the state has allocated to schoolchildren, but the pay of teachers has risen to the level that we want to see together. In order to reach this goal, it is reasonable and even necessary to monitor whether the money allocated in the state budget reaches the teacher's bank account or not. We know that this money was not received by teachers in total in 2012, 2011 and 2010. I have far from blamed the local authorities for using this money for other purposes under the rules in force at the time. It was their political choice. If, in the opinion of the decision-makers, teachers were adequately paid and the money allocated from the state budget to teachers could also be used for other purposes, such a political decision must be fully respected, even though it does not coincide with the priorities of the Ministry of Education and the Government. As far as this year's activities are concerned, we have determinedly collected the data provided by local authorities every month, calculated the salaries of the teachers and made them public. One third of Estonia's municipalities have managed to pay wages in addition to the money allocated by the state and have added to their political priorities. Unfortunately, two thirds of the municipalities have not done so, especially in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U31	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U32	Minister, thank you very much. I'm sure it's very nice to hear these statements from those who aren't familiar with education, but I hope you're already a little bit of an educator for today. You know very well that these are support services, logo beet and social pedagogy services. The agreements were concluded between the Government of the Republic and the representatives of the local governments. It was nothing to do with the mistreatment of teachers' salaries. As far as agreements are concerned, you are certainly aware that, at the level of individual municipalities and cities, wage agreements for teachers were concluded in councils, with higher rates than the national minimum rates, only after 1 January, in a very large number of municipalities in April. Consequently, these payments have also been made ex post. But my question is this: do you really think that, because of such confusion, teachers' wages will rise?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U33	Good questioner! This is not a question of confusion; it is about making teachers' salaries transparent. The publication of the facts about teachers' salaries is certainly not a blur, but an increase in transparency. Such accusations are, in my opinion, inappropriate. With regard to the issue of teachers' pay, the Ministry of Education and Research intends to continue to disclose the extent to which the funds allocated to teachers' pay in the country have reached the hands of teachers. I am pleased that the teachers' trade unions, both the Teachers' Association and the Education Workers' Association, agree on this issue with the Ministry of Education and Research. I very much hope that other people involved in education will pay due attention to this process in the Riigikogu and elsewhere. I think it is clear to all of us that, as long as the money already allocated does not reach where it is intended, it will be very difficult to persuade the rest of the people to allocate additional money if it is not guaranteed that it will reach the teachers. All these efforts are therefore particularly in the interests of teachers, schools and the education community. I very much hope that the Riigikogu, including the Committee on Culture and all its members, will pay the same attention to teachers' salaries as the Ministry of Education and Research does.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U34	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U35	Thank you. In addition to pay, the workload is also crucial for teachers. We noticed the very intense attention of the State and the Ministry of Education and Research when you presented amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, with which you greatly worsen the situation of teachers. Your proposal should increase the workload of teachers to 35 hours per week, eliminate the extra costs, eliminate the certainty that the level of accreditation will set the workload. Now that people who have worked at school for 30 years have become a method teacher, these people will no longer be recognised to this extent. In addition, you have proposed introducing into the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act the possibility that people who are not qualified can work in schools and kindergartens. As a result of all this compote, are you not afraid that the highly respected people, who have kept our education system to a very good level, will simply get tired and leave school?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U36	Good questioner! I didn't think I'd have to hear such a demagogic tirate here. The Ministry of Education and Research has not planned any of your listed steps. It was just a malicious interpretation. We have set the objective of raising teachers' salaries to 20% above the national average. These steps, which have been proposed, will reduce the burden on teachers, due to a reduction in bureaucracy and the volume of the curriculum. The 35-hour working week has been held by Estonian teachers since ancient times. Commenting on the complaints made in this context would not make it any better. I would like to stress once again: read these proposals with goodwill, thinking about teachers and how we can jointly implement the objectives that, I hope, you will share: the increase in teachers' salaries, the reduction of workload and bureaucracy, and the other proposals that are reflected in the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school submitted to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U37	Let us now start by asking the questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U38	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. There is no belief that in two thirds of local authorities, teachers have not received the prescribed salary. In my opinion, everyone, including your ministry, must be responsible for this. With a red line, the local authorities have been pulled down here, where the teachers' pay has been hard hit: the towns of Tartu, Pärnu, Kohtla-Järve and Rakvere and the municipalities of Viimsi, Jõhvi and Õru. I called Kohtla-Järve this morning and asked him how it was. They spread their hands, they don't know anything about this problem, because everything is done as the law requires. I have a question for you now. What is the situation in the municipalities I spoke about today, in Tartu, Pärnu, Kohtla-Järve and Rakvere and in the municipalities Viimsi, Jõhvi and Õru on 8 May 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U39	Thank you. I don't know who you called, and what caused the answer, that they don't know anything about teachers' salaries. However, I am aware of this and have personally experienced that most local authorities are very well informed about the situation in schools, the money allocated to them and how it is used. We have been in constant contact with local authorities on this issue. There are sometimes quite reasonable and understandable reasons why all the money has not been paid out. The schemes for paying money are different. The fact that three months' money has not been fully paid out in three months is not a major problem in itself when there is mutual trust between the ministry, local government, schools and teachers. If the reward systems take this money to the teachers later, there's nothing wrong with it. If part of this money is left in reserve, given the increasing volume of schools from 1 September, there is nothing wrong with that either. However, it is quite systematic that some local authorities have not used this money for years to pay teachers' salaries. In this case, I believe, such determined action is justified, including in the cities you mentioned, in Tallinn and in Kohtla-Järve, but also in Tartu and other places. Once again, it is not worth treating as opposing or blaming. The objective is relatively simple: we must collectively achieve that all the money that teachers are going to pay comes to the teachers. That is a common goal. Finding the guilty and throwing the problem over the fence will not help us to get closer to this goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U40	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I also very much hope that the money for teachers will still be found by the teachers. But I'm asking about the situation of children with special needs in regular school. I met the parents of children with special needs in Võrumaa. They said that many parents have sent their children to regular school. It is as if the laws guarantee these children with support services, logo beets, psychologists and social workers. At the same time, however, parents have encountered the problem of local authorities claiming that they have no money to provide support services or to reward teachers. Please explain the rights of parents to require local authorities to have these services. Or where's the money gone?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U42	Thank you, good questioner! True, an increasing number of parents use the legal opportunity to direct their children with special educational needs to regular schools. International practice shows that such an inclusive educational model is beneficial for the development of these children. The Ministry of Education and Research has therefore supported this direction. He has done so far, not only in recent years, but throughout the last decade. The obligation to provide support services is laid down in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act according to the wishes of the Riigikogu. The existence of these services must be ensured by the schoolmaster, which is usually the local authority. According to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the local government is supported by the state budget. The remaining liabilities, those necessary for the provision of public services, must be borne by the local authorities from their budgets. These responsibilities include the payment of the remuneration of support specialists and much more that goes along with the running of schools. If the public service provider is unable to fulfil its obligations, of course, the state has the right to pay attention to what the state does, within the framework of public supervision, either through the Ministry of Education and Research or through the county governments. But all citizens certainly have the right to turn to the local government to defend their rights. If that doesn't help, they have the right to turn to law enforcement. If a particular person has specific problems, then you can contact the Ministry of Education and Research so that we can deal with this problem already in the Ministry. However, I would add that we have increased the money for children with special educational needs at a preferential rate every year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U43	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U44	The next question is from my colleague, Tiit Tammsaare, to the Minister for the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimud. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U45	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Secretary! I'll pick up where I left off on Monday. First, I'm interested in hunting money. I would like to stress that hunting projects are financed only through the KIC from funds received from hunters by the Ministry of Finance. Please do not mislead the public and do not say that it is all taxpayers' money. Only the money from the hunters' money goes partly back to the hunts. Here is the analogy with the motor insurance fund: only those who buy a motor insurance policy contribute to the motor insurance fund that protects us all. But why did the state not participate in this fund, given that a new budget period for the European Union is coming, that the MAK measures are in place and that the Minister for Agriculture, Seeder, was also willing to give up some of the money? Don't you talk to each other in the government at all, or what's the matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U46	Thank you, good questioner! In your question, everything was messed up like mush and cabbages. What exactly were you referring to when you spoke about the next seven-year budget period of the European Union, I was relatively confused. When we talk about environmental money, it is still focused on environmental protection, nature protection, investment projects. A little less than EUR 100 million will be directed directly to nature conservation activities. I'm sure that's very necessary. It is in no way possible to compensate for the damage caused by the most effective realisation of hunting rights granted exclusively to hunters from the European Union's investment money. Our Monday evening conversation in this Chamber primarily concerned the debate on whether you think hunters are not part of the country or what you are referring to, saying that the country is not part of the country. So who are these hunters? They pay a fee to the budget and then, through environmental charges, it will be directed later, if damage has occurred, to compensate for part of the damage. Hunters are exactly the same part of the country and exactly the same taxpayers. It is philosophically completely incomprehensible to me that the rest of the taxpayers, who have no chance of having any say in whether and how the hunt is being carried out, should bear the extra burden. I do not agree with this nor did I agree at the time of the draft procedure that an additional tax should be imposed on the remaining taxpayers, the content of which would be to pay off the damage caused by the mediocre realisation of the right granted to hunters. That would be unfair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U47	Please, Mr Tammsaar, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U48	Looks like you've got it all mixed up, too, like mush and cabbages or even a little bit worse. Currently, support from Natura sites, for example, is known to be paid on the basis of MAK. I'm talking about support. It is not a question of compensating hunters for their exclusive hunting rights, but of partially compensating landowners and forest owners for the losses they have suffered, which are currently based on MAK. The Minister of Agriculture agreed to extend these measures, at least that is what he said in the Committee on Economic Affairs, where I myself was present, when he proposed to change the rules on State aid. The Committee on Economic Affairs also voted on this unanimously in a positive way. That's actually the story. In this light, do you think anything has not been done or not? In your view, would it have been possible or not to include in the MAK measures a wider list of costs compensation damages?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U49	Thank you. The proposal for the allocation of funds for the MAK, the Rural Development Plan, was submitted by the Minister of Agriculture to the Cabinet relatively recently. It did not include a proposal that additional EU money should be directed towards paying off hunting losses. I don't have the information you've been serving here. But still, what are we talking about or what is it you're fighting for? I thought about it again on Monday night after the debate ended. You are actually still fighting for a system that has given certain associations the exclusive right to hunt even on the land of private owners since Soviet times and the only way to regulate the numbers of wild animals there, to divert wild animals from fields or forest young ones, a system which, in the sense of law, leaves the private owner no opportunity or right to participate in who is carrying on his private property and how he is doing so, even after we have restored the state order based on other principles very long ago. I don't agree with that. Private property is sacred and inviolable according to our constitution. The private owner must have the right and the opportunity to have a say in who is carrying out his land. That is the principle of the new Hunting Act. I think it is also very well balanced with the interests of hunters to continue to deal with their hobby, but they must do so by agreeing with the landowners on whose land it takes place.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U50	Please, my colleague Tiit Tammsaar, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U51	Thank you, Madam President. When it comes to farm charges, for example, for power lines, it is not Soviet time, it is communism. You know that very well. It's a matter of its own. But now I'm going to go to the next question. I asked you what the largest landlord RMK will do with the hunters. You claimed that RMK would not engage in hunting, but all hunting lands will divide it, mostly by auction. Does this mean that there will be fewer offers in more than 300 hunting areas? That's the only way all the hunters could understand your answer. Or is it misunderstood?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U52	Thank you. I've got it all wrong. In your Monday question, you did not specify whether you were referring to the land of RMK, where RMK itself plays the role of the organiser, these are the hunting areas of the state divided into hunting grounds where auctions are organised, or whether you were referring to the land where the right of use is granted to a specific hunting society, section or club and where RMK acts as landowner. Those are two different things. I'm afraid you missed that clarification. We are still talking about auctions in those areas where it is the so-called country hunting grounds, where this land is divided into hunting grounds and where RMK has also organised auctions today. I wouldn't say that there's been some real feud there, but I've often been tried to make it look like RMK is the one who'd really love to offer these most hunters from abroad. True, there are examples that foreign citizens have won these auctions. I looked at the information about how many Estonian Hunters' Society itself issued hunting certificates to foreign citizens in 2012, for example. That figure was over 3,500. Even one percent of it does not constitute the rights granted by RMK to foreign citizens. So we're still talking about auctions in the country's hunting areas, hunting grounds, where they are happening now. In the rest of the regions, as you are well aware, the law provides that, after the entry into force of the law, all current users of hunting areas will have this right extended for another ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U53	Two locally registered questions can now be submitted. Starts with colleague Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! As we know, following the adoption of this law, the Riigikogu's group of hunters turned to the President of the Republic. In the appeal, the Support Group says that this draft is contrary to the Constitution. The President of the Rural Congress also agrees on this issue. Has your ministry allowed it to be assessed, or do you have an assessment of whether or not this law is in conflict with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U55	Thank you. Unfortunately, I cannot ask you a more specific question as to why the chairman of the congress of the rural people referred to takes such a view. But that's it. When it comes to the appeal of six members of the Riigikogu, it contains exceptionally much misleading information. For example, it claims that the possible compensation for hunting losses would only be left on hunters' shoulders. That's not true. In fact, the law expressly states that, in the case of hunters, only partial compensation can be given, but the aim is still to prevent damage and not to make up for damage later. Similarly, the six members of the Riigikogu are misleading both the public and, unfortunately, the President of the Republic, as if the state had somehow distanced itself from this subject. There is no distance, on the contrary, the new law provides for the creation of hunting councils, including a representative of the state. Unfortunately, there are only a few mistaken and untrue claims in this appeal. The draft law, which has now become the law, is certainly in accordance with the Constitution. It has been thoroughly analysed here in Parliament. I fully trust Members of Parliament in the fact that the draft law, which has been approved, is fully in line with the current constitution. I think this has been a very necessary change. Rather, it is about making our hunting arrangements more constitutional, not the other way round.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U56	The last issue registered on the spot is Mr Ester's Tuiksolt.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, You have argued during the preparation of the Hunting Act that you have worked effectively with both sides, both hunters' associations and landowners. With what were the landowners able to convince you that you were in the interests of them in this law, not of the hunters?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U58	Thank you for that question. The claim on your question was clearly biased and, unfortunately, did not correspond to the truth. It is a law that was really prepared with representatives of both landowners and hunters at the table. The public address of the private forest federation points out, among other things, that the compromises that both parties had to make during the drafting of this draft law were certainly not easily achieved, but both parties were quite constructively minded during the negotiations. It was clear that there was a consensus that the Soviet mentality and legislative space could be completed in 2013. Later, while the draft law was already under discussion in Parliament, passion was once again tried to be set on fire. Both sides, of course, tried to do everything in Parliament to tilt the bill in their favour. It has to be said that Parliament has shown a sense of principle and adopted a draft that is not tilted either way or on the other side, but is very well balanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U59	Ladies and gentlemen, since we still have three other issues to discuss, which have been registered before, I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U60	The next question is Mr Tarmo Tammelt, Minister for Education and Science, Jaak Aavikkool. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U61	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister for Education and Science, The draft law amending the PGS contains a point under which state secondary schools should be established in each county. In recent money distribution, however, Põlvamaa and Valgamaa were excluded from the list of recipients, although two schools in Ida-Virumaa received money 20 kilometres from each other. So, Mr. Minister, how do you try to achieve this goal to create a state gymnasium in every county?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U62	Thank you. I have repeatedly said that this round of measures, where five state secondary schools received investment support, is the first stage through the creation of state secondary schools. This cannot be seen as a final decision on the need for state secondary schools in any region, but rather as a first step. Nine applications were submitted this time, six were evaluated positively, three were excluded from the competition due to non-compliance. Unfortunately, the knee fell under the line because the money ran out first. As far as the future of the knee is concerned, I am optimistic that the plans are, in my opinion, quite reasonable. The need to establish a state secondary school in Põlva is understandable to all parties involved. I am convinced that, in the coming financial period, the state gymnasium to be built in Põlva or the Põlva gymnasium will be among the first investment objects. It is known that the use of Structural Funds has been agreed by the government in the coming financial period. According to this, the measure to improve the school network provides for an amount of EUR 240 million. These instruments will be of this magnitude in the coming period. I know there have been internal debates in Põlva about where the most sensible place for high school would be. In the meantime, that decision was amended. I very much hope that this small cut-off will also benefit the quality of the final result, i.e. the decision to build the right state gymnasium in Põlva is based on a broader consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U63	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U64	Thank you. Mr. Minister! How can the education life of the county be arranged in such a way that the county elders do not intervene in the educational affairs of local governments? When the previous county elder moved Mammaste School from seventh to second place in the county ranking, even though there was no development plan or analysis, the county governor now intervened in the decision-making process when the school funding was decided and started the monitoring procedure. Is the role of rural elders politically interfering with the decision-making process of the local government?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U65	Thank you. The role of county elders is certainly not to interfere with the political decision-making process of the local government, but rural governments have the right and duty to supervise matters where supervision has been delegated to them by law. The complaints about the political bias of one or the other county government's decision are always specific. I would not like to comment in any way on the specific decisions made in Põlva County, either in one direction or in the other. I would like to emphasise once again that all those people who have contributed to the preparatory work of Põlva and the state gymnasium coming to Põlvamaa should certainly not be disappointed or feel somehow politically harassed. Once again, in this round, Põlva's application remained under the line on the basis of the objective criteria that the EAS took into account. I'm sorry there wasn't enough money on Kõlva, Põlva needs this high school. As I have already said, it is quite likely that the Põlva application will not only find positive support, but Põlva will also receive a financial allocation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U66	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U67	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Education and Research has said that Põlva will receive funding in 2018. Is this funding needed more, then, is there no more children there at that time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U68	I can't tell you where this year's 2018 is from. May it be on the conscience of the speaker or the messenger. I stress once again that Põlvamaa needs a state gymnasium. This is a shared understanding of Põlva County, Põlva City and Ministry of Education. Just because this round did not have enough money for Põlva does not mean that these decisions should not be made when new opportunities arise. There's no way I can share your pessimism about the future of Põlva County. I think we should work together to make sure that the outflow of students and other people from Põlvamaa stops. The state gymnasium is certainly one step on the road to improving the quality of education in Põlva County by concentrating all or at least most of the upper secondary school education in Põlva City, in cooperation with other middle-level educational institutions, in particular the Gardening School in Räpina. I am firmly optimistic about the education and future of Põlva County, much more optimistic than you are.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U69	Now you can ask the questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U70	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question about the next major funding for general education. You have made it very clear in this Chamber and in several interviews that, from the next financial period, state secondary schools will be promoted, they will receive very high levels of investment. Most municipalities have taken this into account in one form or another. Have you received confirmation from Brussels that such investment in general education is allowed and in line with labour market measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U71	Measures aimed at developing the school network, aimed at improving the quality of education and optimising public spending in education, are certainly in line with Brussels's priorities. I would not like to leave an opportunity to interpret my speech so that EUR 240 million, with co-financing, is the money that goes to develop the network of state secondary schools. However, we are talking about a measure of the general education network, including the basic schools of local governments, to ensure a network of local primary schools where this is necessary. There is certainly a need to continue to invest in schools for children with special educational needs. But on the basis of what is best known here, I do not see problems with European priorities. Of course, these decisions will be final when they are discussed and fixed in detail in both the Commission and the Government of the Republic. But we have time for that. On the basis of today's understanding and information, I can say that the investment in the comprehensive school network of EUR 240 million is realistic, practical and justified. I hope that we will also be able to make effective use of these instruments.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U72	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have a pretty good time right now. Many municipalities have realised that the restructuring plan for the school network has to be dealt with and have taken these decisions. Some of them concern the formation of state secondary schools. There has been a lot of positive progress in the Ministry of Education, negotiations have started, you support municipalities in every way, you also talk about co-financing. But if you look at the actions, it turns out that Valga is out of the amount of the measure to clean up the upper secondary school network. There are a number of speculations about why this town was left out there. What message do you give to the rivermen? What is your position on the establishment of a state secondary school and what would be the timetable? If we are talking about the structural funds of the European Union, this funding can really only take place in 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U74	First of all, from the time perspective of the structural funds. The final date for the whole measure is probably after 2020, but the Ministry of Education and Research, with the important support of the Ministry of Finance, including through state budget preparation, has tried to do everything in order for us to be able to start using Structural Funds already in 2014, not to mention 2015. Those counties that have reached the most advanced stage in the preparation of state secondary schools in Põlvamaa, but also in Valgamaa and Järvamaa, are certainly those where the establishment of state secondary schools is the priority in question, not in the perspective of 2018, but much faster. Valga, Põlva, Türi and Tallinn were not funded this time. All of these, I would stress that, with regard to Tallinn as well, where I believe that the creation of a state gymnasium is necessary, justified and feasible, who have been left out of this one-time round, is essentially much better prepared to be in the front row of the recipients of the next round. There are certainly no negative attitudes towards Valgamaa either, not to mention that we doubt the usefulness of the state gymnasium at all. Yes, we need a state gymnasium in Valgamaa, we need a state gymnasium in Põlva County, we need a state gymnasium in Järvamaa and we are ready to seriously discuss the creation of state gymnasiums in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U75	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue. I'm sorry, Question Time is over. Thank you, good people of the Riigikogu, for asking questions. Thank you, Members of the Government, for answering your questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U76	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 13th working week session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U77	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I have the honour to address an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. An inquiry concerns old-age pensions. As we know, the current old-age pension is made up of three components in Estonia: the basic or base part, the seniority unit and the insurance unit. However, the system is structured in such a way that, when social tax is paid from the average salary, the annual coefficient is 1, but if a person earns less than the average salary, the coefficient is less than 1. Thus, people who pay a higher amount of social tax are also guaranteed a more livable pension. If we have relatively similar current pensions, they will vary several and several times in the future. Many people who are committed to society and whose income is not very high will have to accept a small pension. This seems unfair because in real life, for example, a kindergarten teacher or teacher who loves his job cannot compete with people working in the IT or financial sector. In this regard, we have five questions for the Minister for Social Affairs, which we hope will also be answered. One question concerns when the government plans to increase the basic part of the old-age pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U78	Thank you. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U79	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to discuss with my colleagues the question of the Centre Party Group to Mr Rein Lang, Minister of Culture. The inquiry concerns the activities of the Estonian Film Institute and what is happening around it. We are interested in how the Minister of Culture has appointed and recalled the members of the Council. We have information that the new members of the Supervisory Board who have been appointed are, in fact, potential beneficiaries of the Foundation's Estonian Film Institute. That's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U80	Thank you. On behalf of the Governing Board, I have received two inquiries. If inquiries comply with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, I will forward them to the addressee immediately. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Financial Supervision Authority Act and the Investment Funds Act, initiated on 6 May, and related amendments to other laws, of which the commission is the Monetary Commission; in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Construction Act, initiated on 6 May, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs, of the Government of the Republic. a Draft Law on the Amendment of the Feed Law, initiated on 6 May, of which the commission is the Rural Commission, of the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy, initiated on 6 May, of which the commission is the Committee on Rural Affairs. I have forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviköle, Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur and Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, please pay attention! Today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting of the Support Group on Transit and Logistics in this Chamber. The caller of the Support Group is Deniss Borodich. Incoming check, please! 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U81	Let us start with the first item on the agenda. The second reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Maritime Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws relating thereto begins. I would like a presentation by Kalev Lillo, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, the buzzing is too big!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Commercial Seafaring Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the State Fees Act 353 was at first reading on 27 February. On 27 March, at first reading, the draft law amending the Commercial Maritime Law and the Port Act was 386. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups; the amendments were received only from the initiator of the draft. Before the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, meetings of the so-called working groups took place on 14 March and 3 April. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft on 18 March when a consensual decision was taken to merge the two drafts, 353 and 386...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U83	Good waitress, I'm sorry! It seems to me that what I'm saying is interfering with our colleagues, and that what you're saying is a little distracting. Maybe we'll be even for a while. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U84	... a new draft, called the amendment of the Commercial Maritime Law and the related amendment of other laws. On 22 April, we discussed the proposals made to the Committee on Economic Affairs and made decisions on further processing. On 6 May, we examined one amendment, the wording of which had to be amended in the light of the comments made by the language editors. The amendments can be divided into several groups. One amendment was to merge the two drafts. The other types of amendments were of a technical nature, they are amendments 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8 in the current numbering. The law was updated by Amendment 2. The current law still talks about the law on contracts and non-contractual obligations. As we know, there is no law of this kind for a long time; the law of the law of debt is currently in force. The wording of the draft is therefore amended. A major amendment will be made to Amendment 7, which introduces the regulation for issuing a certificate for a radio operator on a recreational craft. While, until now, those who wanted to have the right to use radio communication had to take, essentially, an examination for professional seafarers, the preparation of which lasts for a week and the price is relatively high, in response to the wishes of the owners of small ships, the new regulation allows them to participate in the courses of a small ship's radio operator, which lasts about eight hours and costs several times less. As I said, the Commission also took procedural decisions at its meeting on 22 April. It was decided to send the draft to second reading with a proposal to end it. In the event that the second reading is closed, it is proposed that the third reading be carried out in s. 15 May 2004 and adopt the draft law as a law. All these decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U85	Honourable waitress, there is a question for you. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U86	Thank you. Dear waitress, You mentioned two drafts a few times, I think 353 and 386, but you never told me why. Is it very common to have it done? What caused it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U87	Thank you. I can't comment on whether it's normal or not. In my practice it was the first time and it was very interesting. But the merger of these two drafts came about because, in fact, these two drafts were initially in government proceedings as a single draft. However, since one of the two topics in this bill may have lingered, two drafts were submitted to the Riigikogu proceedings. In the course of the procedure, the level of readiness of these two drafts became relatively similar and both required the amendment of the Commercial Maritime Law. We thought it would not be wise, for example, to amend the same law three or four weeks apart to ensure clarity of legislation; it would be better to do it at once.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U88	Dear waitress, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We will examine the drafts 353 and 386 amendments. A total of eight amendments have been received, all of which are from the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be completed. The second reading is closed and the first item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U89	Let's move on to the second item. The first reading of the draft Act on ratification of the Convention on the Establishment of a European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the Protocol amending it begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister for the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimethus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U90	Good manager! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! As has been said, today, at first reading, you have before you the draft ratification of the Convention establishing the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites, or EUMETSAT (maybe the abbreviation is somewhat more oral) and the Protocol amending it. After Parliament has approved this draft, Estonia will become a full member of this international organisation. Not surprisingly, the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites deals exactly with what the name of this organisation says, i.e. the development, maintenance and use of the European weather satellite system. These are satellites that give us fresh, continuous and accurate information about what's happening in the world's weather. It can be said that the draft we are discussing today is very directly and closely relevant to all those who are concerned with the precise weather forecast. EUMETSAT information, however, is not just necessary for weather forecasting, but also helps in the event of forest fires or marine pollution. For example, in the case of marine pollution, it may be necessary to monitor the movement of oil spots from the air. However, information from satellites on wind data can be used even in wind energy production to estimate network load and production volumes. When Estonia becomes a full member of EUMETSAT, it gives Estonian companies the opportunity to participate in EUMETSAT procurement, which will certainly open up new opportunities for our technology companies as well as research institutions. Of course, if you become a full member, you will also be open to people who are interested in working or pursuing a career in EUMETSAT. Estonia has been cooperating with EUMETSAT since 2006. At the moment, we have a temporary cooperation agreement. It has to be said that if we had to decide to postpone becoming a full member, in addition to being fundamentally unreasonable, it would also be detrimental to us financially, because our membership fee would simply be much higher if the cooperation agreement was extended. As of now, 26 States have joined the Convention. In addition to us, the ratification process is also ongoing in Lithuania. Please, good members of the Riigikogu, you will support this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U91	Good Minister, thank you! Sorry, there is one question. Dear colleagues, please, we will be faster if you want to ask! Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When this law is implemented, certain financial obligations arise for the Estonian state. How much are these financial obligations, how will they be determined, and will we be obliged to make certain payments next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U93	Thank you. As I said in conclusion, we still have financial obligations now if we are not a full member, but use information and EUMETSAT materials in the framework of the cooperation agreement. If we do not become a full member, our annual fee will be much higher than if Parliament supports this proposal and Estonia becomes a full member of EUMETSAT. This year's membership fee is EUR 277000. This depends on the projects that EUMETSAT is currently developing. There will be a slight increase in membership in the coming years, as the plan is to launch new satellites into orbit. This will, of course, have to be paid up by the members, but this increase will not be exponential: in 2014, the full member's tax will be EUR 349000, and in 2015 it will be estimated at EUR 430000. As Estonia contributes according to its GDP, our contribution also depends on how our economy as a whole is doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U94	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Rein Randveri, member of the Environment Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! By ratifying the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites, the EUMETSAT Convention and its Amending Protocol, we will be able to move forward in environmental monitoring and without monitoring and drawing up current forecasts. Since Estonia does not have any meteor satellites, we want to become a full member of EUMETSAT. The Minister spoke about our cooperation with this organisation and the need for ratification of the Convention and the Protocol. It was also under discussion in the Commission that, before becoming a full member, we can only use the information we have chosen at an hour's intervals. After ratification, we have the opportunity to gain access to more information and the data will be transmitted to us operationally every 15 minutes, giving us the opportunity to make more accurate forecasts in difficult weather situations. As a full member, Estonia has the right to participate in development and Estonian companies can participate in procurement (these procurements are predominantly from space technology). Ratification will benefit our society as a whole. I will mention another interesting fact that was discussed at the committee meeting. The meteorosatellite, from which weather reports are drawn up, is orbiting at an altitude of 36000 kilometres. I will now talk about the Commission's work. The debate on the draft was held in s. a April 22nd. There the bill was prepared for the first reading. Jalmar Mandel, Director General of the Estonian Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, and Silja Kulagina, Head Specialist of the European Union and International Cooperation Department of the Ministry of the Environment, were invited. The invited guests explained the content and objectives of the bill and its impact on Estonia. Interested who are currently partners of EUMETSAT in Estonia. The guests replied that they were researchers from the University of Tartu from doctoral studies and researchers from the University of Tallinn. The question of whether a certain number of seats were foreseen for Estonia in EUMETSAT was answered that each country has one vote in the Council and that the EUMETSAT Data Coordinator is currently an employee of the EAS Space Bureau. Interested in our budget, or contributions. The Minister has already responded to that. Following the presentation of the draft, the Commission took procedural decisions. It was decided to appoint a speaker of the commission as rapporteur, to propose that the draft be put on the agenda today, 8 May, to propose that the first reading of draft 411 be terminated and to propose that the Riigikogu Bureau set ten working days by which the draft 411 amendments should be tabled. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U96	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 411 amendments. May 22, 17.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the second item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U97	Let's go to the third item. The first reading of the draft Act on ratification of the Protocol on Privileges and Integrity of the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister for the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimitud!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U98	Good chairman of the sitting! Dear Riigikogu! A moment ago, I asked you to support Estonia to become a full member of EUMETSAT. This is an important step for our weather service and environmental monitoring, and it is necessary to ratify the protocol on EUMETSAT privileges and immunity that is currently before you. The purpose of the Protocol is to give EUMETSAT privileges and immunity, which are also available to other international organisations and which are necessary for the performance of the tasks of that organisation. In the case of international organisations, such protocols are good practice and are part of their association with these organisations. For example, the United Nations, its special organisations, as well as the Council of Europe, the International Atomic Energy Agency and several other organisations have similar rights. I know that during the procedure for this draft, there was, among other things, the question of whether this immunity would extend to our EMHI staff. It doesn't. It is not the case that, if EMHI employees are working here in Estonia, they will continue to be on the same footing as diplomats. The Protocol explicitly provides that this privilege applies to EMHI staff when they move to another country in the performance of EUMETSAT duties. In Estonia, the ratification of this protocol is not automatically accompanied by any diplomatic status. As has been said, privileges and immunity apply to EUMETSAT's own staff and experts. The most important substantive rights include immunity from duties and tax exemptions, which are fully in line with our own laws. Accession to the Protocol does not entail financial obligations for Estonia. Good Riigikogu, I ask you to support this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U99	Minister, there is one question for you. Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary! Indeed, as already mentioned in the presentation, the Committee on the Environment raised a number of questions about privileges and immunity. Some of them were already answered in the report, but I'll ask you a little bit more generally. There is probably nothing secret, dangerous or protective in the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites, at least it may seem that way. Why should the employees of such an organization have privileges and immunities? Perhaps a good example of the product, when might it be necessary to apply them in practical life, in Estonia or anywhere else in the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U101	Thank you. No good examples can be given, as this is not a need for a good example. However, I would not like to draw attention to the potential risks associated with operating or developing satellite systems, which anyone might want to take advantage of. But I believe that when this protocol was opened for accession, this need had been very carefully considered at the time. The joke is whether it has something to do with Estonia, because the weather is poor here and the climate is not very commendable, meteorologists are doing ungrateful work, they may not always be very respectable and may be displeasing with their bad weather forecasting news. But it is certainly not related to this, but it is still the development of satellite systems and the necessary activities for that purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U102	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask Rein Randver, Member of the Environment Committee of the Riigikogu, for a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. A moment ago, we completed the first reading of the draft Act ratifying the EUMETSAT Convention. This implies the obligation to accede to the EUMETSAT Protocol on Privileges and Immunities. This is what the bill 412 before you is about. The Riigikogu must ratify all agreements which require the adoption, amendment or repeal of laws in Estonia. The Minister spoke about the objectives of the protocol, about Estonian law and the issues relating to taxes, as well as about the immunity of the representatives of the Member States, which I am not dealing with here. Implementation of the Protocol will not entail any direct additional costs for our country. That is what the parties to the bill have claimed. I will present an overview of the debate in the Commission. Draft Act 412 on ratification of the Protocol was discussed in the Committee on the Environment on Monday, i.e. a April 22nd. Jalmar Mandel, Director-General of the Estonian Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, and Silja Kulagina, Head Specialist of the Department of European Union and International Cooperation of the Ministry of the Environment, who introduced the content and objectives of the draft and the obligations and rights arising from it to Estonia were invited to the discussion. The meeting of the Commission requested to know the rights of EUMETSAT representatives in the performance of their duties. We received answers from the Minister. The Commission took procedural decisions. It was decided to appoint a representative of the leading committee here in the course of the proceedings of the draft 412, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft 412 be first read on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today, 8 May, to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the first reading of the draft and to propose to the Riigikogu Board that ten working days be set by the deadline for submitting the amendments to the draft 412. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U104	Honourable waitress, there is a question for you. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You said that in the committee you had a topic such as the responsibilities of the Estonian state. What responsibilities were mentioned in the Commission apart from the financial obligations of the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U106	Thank you for your question. As the Protocol deals with the pension and social security contributions of permanent staff of EUMETSAT, it must be regulated in 123 Estonian countries as a result of § 123 of the Constitution. According to the information received from the Ministry of Finance in the Commission, it is planned to introduce this rule into the Social Tax Act during this year. The Defence Service Act already regulates the relationship with foreign contracts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-08_U107	Dear waitress, thank you. No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There are no calls at the moment, so negotiations will not be opened. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 412 amendments. May 22, 17.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the third item is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 2.31 p.m.
