ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the 12th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Dear fellow Members, let us all wish our congratulations today... 94 years after the date of the convening of the Constituent Assembly. So happy Riigikogu birthday and, of course, Happy Veteran's Day and Happy Jüriday! First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U2	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 12 members of the Estonian Central Party Group, I have the honour to present an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. The inquiry concerns income support. If you remember, it was last changed before the elections in 2011. Compared to January 2011, the consumer price index has increased by 9.3%, including food costs by 10.5%. It is recalled that the current subsistence allowance for a person living alone and for the first member of the family is EUR 76.70 and for the second and subsequent family members is EUR 61.36 per month. The minimum cost of a basket published by Statistics Estonia was 85.10 euros in 2011 and 88.34 euros in 2012, i.e. the subsistence limit has been lower for years than the minimum cost of a basket alone. At the same time, food, clothing, shoes and all other goods and services are included in the income support. The Ministry of Social Affairs has now proposed that next year the subsistence limit will rise slightly, for a person living alone to 90 euros a month, and for the second and subsequent family members to 72 euros. However, this means that the subsistence limit will continue to remain below the minimum cost of the food basket, as the Ministry of Finance forecasts an increase of 3.4%. We have a number of questions about why the subsistence limit has been lower than the minimum cost of a food basket for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U3	Dear colleagues, I have adopted an inquiry on behalf of the Bureau, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Bureau will decide on its further procedure. Let's move on to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 24 April 2004, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Minister for Defence Urmas Reinsalu, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and Minister for Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Dear colleagues, today, after the end of the session, there will be a government briefing for the visitors of the Riigikogu within the framework of Riigikogu Open Doors Day in the Chamber, so I ask you to bring important materials from your tables and drawers. We're conducting a presence check. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16. Let's get to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U4	There is one item on today's agenda: First reading of the draft Riigikogu decision 'Mart Laari Appointment of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank' presented by the President of the Republic of Estonia, Toomas Hendrik Ilves. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of the draft decision, which bears the number 415 and is entitled 'The Riigikogu's decision to appoint 'Mart Laari Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank'. This is the first reading and the only reading. This draft was submitted to the Riigikogu by the President of the Republic of Estonia, Toomas Hendrik Ilves, on 9 April 2013. According to § 65 (7) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and Article 7 (1) of the Eesti Pank Act, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank is appointed by the Riigikogu on a proposal from the President of the Republic for a period of five years. Due to the end of the term of office of Jaan Sven Männik, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, on 12 June 2013, the President, on the basis of Article 78 (11) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, proposes to appoint Mart Laar as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank from 13 June 2013. Mart Laar complies with the requirements laid down by law for the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U6	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. Good fellows, there's a lot of noise in the hall. Please, let us respect the waitress and those members of the Riigikogu who wish to listen to this item on the agenda!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U7	The Finance Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 15 April, with Mart Laar, the candidate for the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, who also answered the questions of the members of the Supervisory Board. Some of the questions and issues that were raised in the Commission. Firstly, the candidate wanted to meet with all the political groups that wish to do so in order to exchange information. He was also asked about his earlier cooperation with the current President of Eesti Pank, Mr Hansson. Mart Laar stated that this cooperation was also earlier, during the period when he was Prime Minister, good. The subject was also European monetary and economic policy, in which Mart Laar confirmed that he was ready to take decisions even in difficult times. There was no very long discussion in the committee. The Commission made consensual decisions to place the first reading of the draft on the agenda on 23 April and to put it to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U8	Thank you. Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U9	Thank you. Dear waitress, I will read the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, which were amended on 23 November 2009. Until then, the person in the constitutional post had no right to appear before the Riigikogu, but the procedure was then changed. The purpose of the amendment was to increase the importance of the discussion of the Riigikogu's plenary session in the appointment procedure, allowing members of the Riigikogu to publicly and directly interview the candidate. Alar Karis got a say a few weeks ago. Why doesn't Mart Laar get the floor today?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U10	The Chairman of the Monetary Commission had a separate discussion with Mart Laar on the subject. Mart Laar said in the negotiations that he was ready to meet with all the political groups. According to my information, this was the request of the Democratic Community that met Mart Laar. The other groups therefore considered that either they did not support or vice versa, they supported Mart Laar's candidacy because no one expressed their wish to meet separately. So Mart was ready to answer not only one question but dozens of questions that could be asked at various group meetings.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U11	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U12	Thank you. Good colleague! I'm sorry we can't ask our president, but he said that Mr. Mart Laar has withdrawn from party politics. My question has to do with this. Can you tell me when, what six it was?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U13	Thank you. It does not appear from your point of view that you would expect this issue to have been discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Indeed, this was not discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and I certainly cannot mention to you a specific date. Mart has said that if he is elected Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Bank, he will clearly withdraw from political party policy. I think that's right, too. It is not possible to do another thing alongside the active political party policy. I think what you read as a retreat, what action you call active action, what you don't, is a decision each person makes. No one can take away from Mart Laar the vision he has had for 20 years in terms of conservative world politics. I believe that, as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, he also wishes to pursue the monetary policy he has seen for the past 20 years. Thanks to this, I can also say that I personally feel relatively confident today by pressing the yes button and supporting it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U14	Dear colleagues, I ask you to keep your voice down, because there is still too much noise in the hall! Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'll come back to the first question. We do not elect the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Bank to ourselves, not to members of any of the political groups of the Riigikogu or to any of the associations, but to elect him to the people of Estonia as a whole. It is likely that this debate may take place somewhere in a political group or in the Community, but it does not get anywhere from there; it is not seen by the public; it is not recorded in the verbatim. At the same time, the views of the Council Chair are very important for our future. Do you really not see the difference between whether the candidate is only present in the political groups or whether he or she will come to the hall and his or her answers to the questions will be heard by the entire Estonian people who want to hear them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U16	Thank you, my good colleague. From the point of view of your question, it seems to me that you have an important form, not content. The reason why I think so is precisely because Mart Laar has made it very clear and has also made it very clear in the Commission that he wants to be invited to the political groups. Unfortunately, it has become clear today that his wish was taken into account and, let's say, the curiosity about talking to him or getting information was revealed only by our Alliance of Democrats. No group took advantage of this opportunity. It seems to me that formality is more important to you. I still maintain the view that if he had been present in the political groups, he could have been asked dozens and dozens of questions. But what makes today's decision certainly easy is that it is a person who has worked alongside us for years, with some for over ten years. I believe that, in reality, this candidate is for those people who have to make decisions today, well-known and easy to choose.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U17	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm asking about the contents. The chairman of your party, Urmas Reinsalu, has claimed that Mart Laar, becoming chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, can prevent foolishness in the European Central Bank. Can you tell me what foolishness he meant by that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U19	Thank you. It tends again to say, can you tell me at what point and on what day it left active party politics? Again, these are relatively subjective opinions, and the question is that we should then define what is foolishness. For one person, action seems to be stupid, and for another it seems to be implementing ideals. This is definitely the basis for this. I think that the answer should satisfy you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U20	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U21	Thank you. Good waitress! In fact, it has been good practice for a long time that when the Riigikogu appoints people to various occupations, they can meet political groups first. This possibility has also been proposed in the past and quite often used, because there are no restrictive rules of procedure at these meetings, such as in this Chamber, and there can also be a small debate. This is a very good form of work in itself. Do you have any information on why the Central Party Group refused to meet Mart Laar?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U22	I don't know if he refused, but he didn't show any interest. I asked Mart Laar separately last night if there was still a wish to meet him. He expressed regret and said that he was really looking forward to meetings and described a very positive meeting with the Democrats. I myself was not there, but he described it really positively and said that there had been questions, there had been opinions. Interest was known not only for past activities but also for the future, they asked how they could see the future of Eesti Pank. At least according to Mardi, this meeting was a good one. And everyone had that opportunity. If today every member of the Riigikogu is able to ask me a question in this large Chamber, it would have been possible to ask Mart Laar many questions in the group. I really don't know what the reason is. I positively expect that everything is clear, and we are seeing almost 100% support for Mart Laar in this hall today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U23	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! Indeed, the Democratic Community met with Mr Mart Laar, and we had a meaningful conversation during which we confirmed that Mart Laar could do the job. We talked about yesterday and today and his visions of the future. So I'm sorry the others didn't want to meet him, they could've gotten better at it. So why do you think the other factions didn't want to meet Mart Laar?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U25	Thank you. I'm sure that's my subjective opinion now, but I'm going to repeat what I've already answered before. I think that some of the MPs are more of an important form, not content. It's important to show... Yeah, that's hard to say. The important thing is not this goal, but... Okay, I'd rather not say so. I'm not going into another discussion. I say once again that everyone had the opportunity, and if it was not wanted to be used, it can be concluded that some decisions had been made in the past. I guess we'll see what those decisions are like in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U26	Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U27	Thank you. I understand from what you said that the IRL Group did not want to meet Mart Laar either. Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U28	IRL didn't arrange a separate meeting with Mart Laar because Mart Laar, as the honorary chairman of the IRL, has been at all our meetings and gatherings. True story, I can assure you that the IRL is Mart Laar's face, just like Mart Laar has had the IRL's face all along. We didn't need a separate meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U29	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U30	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I agree with you a hundred percent that the word'stupid' has a different meaning for different people. I ask you if you think it's stupid for a politician to shoot a picture of another politician.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U31	Thank you. I was expecting that question to come sooner or later today. I have to admit, a member of your party asked an analogous question in the committee, a little bit of a different shade, but an analogous one. The content of his question was different. It was that, as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, it would later be difficult for him to take decisions in the Chamber. He wanted to know how Mart Laar appreciated the concrete action you referred to. Mart Laar repeated what he said before in the Commission. He apologized and said that a person must be willing to admit his mistakes. That's what he said in the committee. I am now very interested to see how whoever asked it in the Committee on Monetary Affairs today will vote on how this response affected him.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U32	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U33	Thank you. Dear waitress, You just said that the IRL is Mart Laar's face as much as Mart Laar's face is IRL's. Hence my question: will Eesti Pank look like an IRL after today's vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U34	Thank you, that's a good question! I can assure you that I hope, and this is really my subjective opinion and hope, that the organisations that currently represent Estonia are not the face of the IRL, but the face of the right-wing worldview that Estonia has had for the last 20 years. Thanks to this, we are actually where we are in Estonia now, compared to the other countries with which we started together. So I believe that Eesti Pank is under no circumstances the face of the IRL. Mart Laar has said he's retreating from active politics. In view of Mart Laari's personality, he is not a modest personality, he is likely to have a large number of supporters and opponents, as are the general people who have the power to take decisions and the courage to make these decisions, not only in Estonian politics, but all over the world. I think that his work and future decisions will be assessed and monitored even more closely than has been the case so far. I believe that it can be said all the more that it is not the face of the IRL, but it is the face of this Europe, of the European values that we bear when we join the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U35	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U36	Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Mart Laar is certainly a dignified person and a suitable person for the position we are talking about today. But my question is this: do you see the difference between being a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank and being a member of the Supervisory Board of State Enterprises?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U37	Thank you for your question. Now we're getting into deep philosophy. We are far removed from the issues discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like to follow up on the legislative initiatives that have been written before us today. If you are thinking about the situation in which members of the Riigikogu could be in councils and when not, the law currently states that in the Council of Eesti Pank there is, not only there, but also in the council of several other companies belonging to the state, if I am not mistaken from the head, then, for example, in the Council of the State Forest Management Centre, there is in fact a so-called mixed association: some are members of the Riigikogu who are appointed on a legislative basis, and some are determined by the decisions of the respective ministers. So today's decisions are based on the law in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U38	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U39	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Based on your answers, why don't you explain a little how you think the left-hand management of Eesti Pank differs from the right-hand management of Eesti Pank?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U40	Thank you, that's a good question! I definitely want to answer that, and I'm taking this opportunity. This is my subjective opinion. I think a person with a left-wing view of the world, whether he's a bank manager or he's a... I think it is very difficult for a person with a left-wing world view to strive, in this sense, that his vision of monetary and economic policy is clearly different from such a constructive economy. Although perhaps I am hurting someone, because if we look at the heads of the European central banks after I have spoken, we can also discover people with a left-wing outlook among them. But without knowing exactly whether there are left or right, I can only talk about my subjective ideas. I think that when we talk about such a simplified worldview and do not go very deep, people with a right-wing worldview say that supporting entrepreneurship and lower taxes are the basis for the success of society. The left is saying that we would rather look at the tax system, raise taxes, make some redistributions, if we have more to take, then we have more to give to somebody, etc. I think that some differences in taxation, but not only these, of course, because of course social and many other aspects are also coming in, is what distinguishes world views. But we have certainly now gone beyond the election of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U41	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U42	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I don't have a problem supporting Mart Laar's candidacy today either. But I would like to clarify Mart Laar's participation in the Board of the Development Fund, because if I am not mistaken, he is a member of the Board of the Development Fund. Does the laws in force force force him to leave this place, or can he continue there?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U43	Thank you. I owe you an answer, I don't know how to tell you. We can find out whether or not he needs to leave this position. This was not a debate in the Commission, and I cannot tell you this momentarily. We will find out and let you know separately, if necessary in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U44	Urmas Glass, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U45	Honourable waitress! If we now go out of our small Estonia and look around the world with a slightly broader look, we will see that former prime ministers, presidents, prominent politicians, social figures are elected or called both the governors of the bank's supervisory board and the board of directors of large companies. Can Estonia not look a little further out in this context, or do you really diagnose the situation that we are experiencing in the light of these questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U46	Thank you. I would answer the question if I knew what you mean by formation. Yes, of course, if you stop by Mart Laar's individual, you'll see that he's been in a commercial bank, but he's also been a member of the board of directors in the banking sector. So I'm sure he's got a closer sense of banking, if you could say that. But if you ask in this context that what has caused questions to be asked in this Chamber, I think it is actually good if questions are asked. I like to do statistics, and I looked at the situation of questioning in previous decisions for interest. On 13 May 2008, when Jaan Sven Männik was appointed Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Bank, the law prevented him from coming to the Riigikogu's speaking desk. At the same time, however, it should be noted that no questions were asked at the time by the Commission representative. Similarly, no questions were asked in 2003, when Mart Sõrg was appointed on 12 June, I looked at these verbatim charts. I think we have just started to take even more interest in all the issues. There is no doubt that Mart Laar is also a person on the one hand that we can say that we know him very well, and on the other hand, some people say that they would like to know more about him and something else. I think it's very right and very reasonable. That's why this hall is here, so we can hold down our discussions and shape our opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U47	Good fellows! Before we proceed with the sitting, I really ask for more silence in the Chamber, otherwise it will be very difficult to follow the debate. If anyone has a proposal to take a break so they can talk, we can do it. I'm asking for silence in the hall, there's too much noise in the hall! Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we spoke briefly about the fact that there are two directions in the management of the central bank, even in the choice of debt resolution methods. That is why I am asking you whether the intervention of the central bank on the bond market, as well as the plan to return the interest earned by the central bank to Greece, is an example of bank management on the left or on the right.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U49	Thank you. Now we are not only discussing left and right sides, but we are also opening a discussion on what the role of the central bank must be in Europe, in which time and at what stages the central bank can participate in the purchase of government bonds, which, after all, will actually help other countries. On this subject, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has had separate meetings with the management of Eesti Pank, where questions similar to those posed by a good colleague, Aivar Sõerdi, have been on the table. The current President of the Central Bank has told the Committee on Monetary Affairs that this limit is already at hand, that we can actually say at some point that buying additional bonds may not be the right decision. But this is a completely separate subject. I think we can discuss these issues separately someday in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U50	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U51	Thank you. Honourable waitress! There's something I'd like to explain. All studies show that people are happier and healthier in those countries where left-wing parties, including the Social Democrats, have been in power for a long time. I would like to know why it is necessary to conduct a party policy, i.e. a right-wing policy in Eesti Pank; you can do it right here in the Riigikogu. Please repeat these five points why there is a need for party politics in the bank.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U52	Thank you. As regards the first part of your question, which was not really a question, but a statement of fact for you, here we have a different opinion. There's nothing weird about that. You're entitled to your opinion. You reached the point by mentioning the right-wing policy and then finally reaching party politics. I'll try to answer both things then. First of all, about party politics. I have already said a question from this speaker, and I dare say, looking at you: I think that Mart Laar does not conduct party politics at Eesti Pank, not at all. He doesn't do party politics! I hope that Mart Laar is pursuing a right-wing policy, I really sincerely hope so. What he's gonna do there, and how he's gonna act, it's gonna be seen to all of us soon enough. But I really sincerely hope that this policy, which has been pursued in Estonia for 20 years, will continue at different levels, at different levels, at different levels of government institutions and also at the level of institutions that are not involved at all in politics. The central bank is not involved in day-to-day policy, but it is very clearly linked to everyday monetary policy decisions. If anyone says that Mart Laar is retreating from politics, then I say that the question is what do we mean by politics? I think that Mart Laar should under no circumstances withdraw from economic and monetary policy decisions. It is precisely for this reason that the Council has been set up to look at how the Bureau behaves, to give guidance to the Bureau, and these guidelines should be guided by European interests. So, these are economic and monetary policy decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U53	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U54	Thank you. Dear waitress, First of all, I want to release you from your promise to give a written answer regarding the Development Fund and being Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. Jaan Sven Männik, the current Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, who was once, by the way, a candidate for President of the IRL, belongs to the Supervisory Board of the Development Fund. So it's not illegal by law. But now my question. When you met Mart Laar on the Commission, whom I undoubtedly support as a candidate, did you also mention how the work or communication of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank will change during the term of office of Mart Laar's Supervisory Board or, more generally, the work or communication of Eesti Pank will change as compared to today?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U55	Thank you, very good question! It didn't come up in the context you just asked for. A general question was asked, wondering what Mardi's vision was in today's crisis situation in Europe. Mart said that a conservative monetary and economic policy had to be pursued, that was his clear position. We did not go in depth, and also in the Commission, although I would stress that the Members of the Commission have the right to ask an unlimited number of questions, there was no longer a discussion on what concrete steps should be taken in the near future. There is hardly any need for rapid, clear reforms. After all, Eesti Pank is actually part of the European Central Bank system. On the one hand, it is not a separate entity, on the other hand, it is an independent entity. I have not been in this structure myself, but I imagine that the thoughts and ideas of all bank managers will be discussed at some specific meetings. I imagine that it is at such meetings that Mart Laar is able to convey his visions very clearly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U56	Mikhail Stalnukhin, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U57	Mr President! As far as I know, we have a secret vote ahead of us today. Has the procedure changed? The rapporteur's answer was that he looked with interest at the way Mr Laari's response in the Commission was the one who asked about the shooting of the portrait and how I voted. Has the procedure really changed and someone, such as the Commission's rapporteur, receives the voting protocol? How am I supposed to understand that surveillance?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U58	Thank you. We must understand this in such a way that, in accordance with Article 79 (2) (6) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, today's vote is secret. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U59	Dear waitress, Can you tell us what your personal assessment of the activities of Mr. Jaan Männik, former Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank is? That is also important for today's decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U60	Thank you. I think Jaan Sven Männik has done very well in managing Eesti Pank during his term of office, in this context, which is part of the duties of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U61	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U62	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Your highly subjective, estimated and derogatory description of what the left side is and what the left side is, reminded me very much of the descriptions of the Danish Cupist Herluf Bidstrup of what capitalism is and what capitalists are. You said that you hoped that this hall would support 100% of Mart Laar's candidacy because Laar is the face of IRL and IRL is the face of Laar and because Laar is going to pursue a very right-wing policy in Eesti Pank. Why do you think such arguments should bring 100% support in the hall? Do you really suspect that all left-wings in this hall are actually secretly right-wing?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U63	Thank you. What is interesting is that in your question, you put the answers given to quite a number of questions into a single sin. I would say the opposite: I think you could support Mart Laari as a left, because he is pursuing the conservative monetary policy he has been pursuing so far. I see no reason why it should not pursue the conservative monetary policy that Estonia has been pursuing over all these years. If we look at what is happening in Europe just a few days ago when we handled the package for one beneficiary country, we will see that there are a lot of problems in the financial and economic field in Europe. And when we look at the situation in Estonia in these very areas, we see that we have a very good position in this context, in terms of words and topics. We certainly have a role to play in having such a good position where our public debt is low, where our costs do not exceed income, where the goal is that we do not live at the expense of future generations, to some extent also on Mart Laar.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U64	A procedural question, Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U65	Thank you, Mr President. This bizarre discussion raises many procedural questions. There was a question here, which was why they were asking. I immediately asked whether our rules of procedure had been changed and there were procedures for dealing with a draft decision where, in order to ask, we should ask someone for permission. Or are there still articles in force that give each member of the Riigikogu the opportunity to ask a question in the course of processing a draft decision without anyone getting confused about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U66	Thank you. We follow the round of questions and answers in § 117 (3) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, which says one question. Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U67	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Unfortunately, it turned out to be as if we were expecting Mr Laar to come and offer himself as a "chat partner," and Mr Laar expected the opposite. That is why it turned out that we have only the Democrats and the IRL Group in our privileged position with him. I'm trying to ask you now. Since Mr Laari's exposure to banking has indeed long been known, have you suddenly discussed, either in the committee or in the political group, how the future Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank appreciates its rouble deal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U68	Thank you. We haven't discussed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U69	Juku-Kalle Raid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U70	Thank you. Sven, do you remember we agreed before that we wouldn't answer one question for more than 20 seconds?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U71	Thank you. I remember, and now I'm trying to answer faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U72	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U73	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Do you think your co-report was in favour of Mart Laar's support in this vote or, unfortunately?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U74	That assessment would be subjective. I think that if you ask for my opinion, you will be interested in what the Committee on Monetary Affairs thinks or what the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mart Laar, thinks. Since the Commission had three to five questions at all, we could have had today's discussion in two minutes. Half of these three to five questions were not, in my opinion, based on monetary or economic policy. So I tried to give you my best understanding of my vision of Mart Laar. If it contributes to your idea of how to vote, I hope only positively.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U75	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu from the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, When the President of the Republic announced his decision to nominate Mr Mart Laar as the Chairman of the Board of the Bank, discussions on whether he was a good enough candidate for this position, whether he was better or what Mart Laar could do in addition to this office were clearly launched. One discussion, perhaps even expected, was that, if the public has already considered it normal to have positions in the sub-urban area, it is almost exclusively political, whether Toompea has the right or appropriate to confirm a person to a high national position, regardless of his political competence, his skills and knowledge. I am glad that today, this second option will probably be confirmed. There were discussions about which, fortunately, people from this very hall said that they did not represent a good nursery, were neither appropriate nor respectable. In addition, it was asked whether Eesti Pank needed a historian as the head of the Supervisory Board. Oh, that ugly specialty that Mart Laar has acquired in his time, and little of it, he has had the strength, the will, and the wisdom to acquire a doctorate in this field! There have been many historians in this Chamber over time, and there are still many historians. I can also say, as a mathematician, confirm and say, what if a historian, still a human being? I think that today we could admit to ourselves, have a heart and a mind to know that there are both financial and technical competences in Eesti Pank. However, Eesti Pank, Estonian monetary policy and also European monetary policy require statesmanship, clear decisions, self-governance skills and conservativeness. We want the strength and strength of Mart Laar in this work, and we still want his clear word, clear thought and courage to decide, conservatively to approach monetary policy nowhere. Thank you and Mart Laar for your success and health.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U77	Thank you. I ask the representative of the Central Party Group of the Riigikogu speech chair Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm in a very delicate position in this chair right now. I understand you who will find that thanks to your outstanding activities in Estonian politics over 20 years, Mart Laar deserves a dignified sneak shed. I also understand the pressure that says that any objection to his party-political appointment as chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank would be like hitting a groundhouse. I don't want to talk about the groundhouse, I want to talk about those people who have entered into a party political agreement and are using hollow arguments to hide it. They're talking about Mart Laar's competence. But what do we measure his competence against? If we compare his competence with that of Professor Enn Listra, for example, if we compare his competence with that of Professors Irene Kull, Urmas Varblas or Professor Raul Eamets, even if we compare his competence with that of Jaan Männik, the current chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, it turns out that his appointment is a party political agreement. So far, it has been assumed that the posts mentioned in the Constitution are occupied by people who do not belong to a political party. In the past, there have been political party agreements in these places, but both Andres Lipstok and Märt Rask left the party the day they took office. Even Rectors of public universities Mait Klaassen and Signe Kivi left the party after they were elected Rector. Not to mention Mart Laar's political age partner, Arnold Rüütelist, who was also the honorary chairman of one of the political parties, and he also left the party. So it cannot be said that the title of the honorary chairman of one of the parties gives special powers. Today, the question of when Mart Laar left party politics remained unanswered, and yet President Toomas Hendrik Ilves confirmed at the end of last year that he would not appoint politicians for three constitutional posts this spring. I read Mart Laar's article about Margaret Thatcher. In an obituary to the legendary Prime Minister of Women of Great Britain, Mart Laar was still able to reach local politics, and he reached the point that the electoral law should be amended in Tallinn. I think it is possible to grieve without fingering local politics. A person who has left party politics can grieve without changing Tallinn's electoral law. I'm sorry that Mart Laar gave up his vote today. I have considered it normal that he has not spoken in a large hall for a year in this Riigikogu and that he rarely stays in the hall longer than during the check-in period. But today it was a place where it would have been appropriate to show its good form, because that is why in 2009 the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu were changed so that people who were nominated for such important occupations could express their views in this large hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U79	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It has to be said that although the previous debate was fun, there were sad notes in it. The Social Democrats believe that the management of Eesti Pank should not and should not be party-political. Therefore, we were sincerely pleased when President Ilves promised to present politically independent persons as candidates for the Auditor General, the Chairman of the Supreme Court and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. Unfortunately, we had to feel disappointed when the candidate became public as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. When President Mart Laar submitted his candidacy, he called his candidate a retreat from active politics. It was therefore particularly strange to hear the confirmation by Urmas Reinsalu, president of the IRL that Mart Laar, as the head of the bank's supervisory board, would not be excluded from politics. It was also strange to hear Mart Laari's own announcement that he was not going to stop party membership. Not knowing exactly how and in what terms President Ilves and Mart Laar dealt with the latter's further political activity in their conversation, it must be said that the President has been put in an awkward position. In an interview published yesterday in the press, President Ilves states: 'I presented Alar Karise, the former rector of the University of Tartu, as the Auditor General, and the Parliament appointed him. Nobody thinks Alar Karis is a politician. As a candidate for the head of the Supreme Court, I presented Priit Pikamäe to the parliament, as well as an exceptionally strong and professional lawyer who is politically independent. As far as Mart Laari is concerned, yes, he is the honorary chairman of one party, but, on the other hand, he is obviously away from active politics and has been sidelined. It would be incompetent to call Mart Laari a day politician in April 2013. ' I fully agree with the President about Karis and Pikamägi. Unfortunately, with regard to the candidate for the Bank's Supervisory Board, I disagree completely with the President. As the honorary chairman of one of the parties, Laar is certainly not completely independent of his party. And when you read Mart Laari's. The interview published in Postimees on 23 February, the views expressed there on Estonia's domestic policy are not talking about withdrawing from day politics, rather the other way round. Therefore, the question of when Laar left active policy and day-to-day policy is relevant. Otherwise, we cannot have the slightest confidence that Laar will not use the position of Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank to intervene in election campaigns, for example. I recall that the previous Governor of Eesti Pank was politically appointed and, in the opinion of the public or experts, it was not a particularly strong bank manager. I also recall that the current chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank must have had fatal opposition to the coalition's desire to once again plant a politician as the President of the Bank. Since the repoliticisation of the position of Governor of Eesti Pank failed, it is now evident that political control of the bank is to be strengthened through the position of Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Bank. The politicisation of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank is undesirable for another reason. According to the Eesti Pank Act, the President of the Supervisory Board of the Bank brings candidates to the Riigikogu for the members of the Supervisory Board of the Bank. The Bank's Supervisory Board has traditionally held a rather delicate balance between representatives of political parties and independent experts, mainly academics. The latter are mostly but not always the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. In breach of this principle, we risk the possibility that the future bank board will only be composed of political candidates and representatives, or at least it will be perceived in this way. And another aspect that cannot be overlooked. The new Governor of Eesti Pank has started to unravel some of the scandals and confusions that have not been adequately resolved in the bank's previous history, particularly regarding the requirements of the so-called VEB Fund. The visible politicisation of the bank's management is certainly not in line with the public's legitimate expectation that all these questions that have not been answered at the time will once have clear and exhaustive answers. In summary, the Social Democrats also want strength and strength for Mart Laar. Unfortunately, we cannot support him as chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-23_U81	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, allow me to read out again that, as a result of Article 79 (2) (6) of the Rules of Procedure Act, voting at the Riigikogu is secret when the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank is appointed. I will put draft decision 415 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 46 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 34 against and 4 abstentions. The draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Appointing the Chairman of the Board of Eesti Pank' presented by the President of the Republic of Estonia, Toomas Hendrik Ilves, has been adopted as a decision. The item is closed. Good colleagues, that concludes today's trial. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.56 a.m.
