ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the second working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U2	Good fellows! Due to the resignation of the member of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Lotman, an alternate member of the Riigikogu is Kaja Kreisman. Let's hear Kaja Kreisman's oath. Please, Echo Kreisman!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U4	Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I'm in front of you to hand over the bill. You see, the fate of the MPs in the opposition is once that if the minister even says something pleasant about some oppositional idea in the hallway, we are already in a good mood. But the better it is to read in the paper that he publicly supports these ideas. I believe that there is a consensus that the tax-free minimum should be increased. We will present our bill on this. This is a sensible draft with sources of cover for the next three years. I believe the Centre Party is also proposing. However, I look forward to the draft of the IRL Group with particular interest. I'm interested in the date of its entry into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U7	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U8	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 12 members of the Central Party Group, I have an inquiry to address the Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder. The inquiry relates to the activities of the Rural Promotion Foundation in relation to the advisory service. We want to know why the advisory service is being moved from one agency to another, why it is constantly being reorganized, why the sector is dissatisfied and why it is precisely because of the restructuring that the advice does not reach farmers. Finally, we ask the minister how he feels about it and whether he has brought it all into life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U9	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U10	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will report an inquiry to Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher. The issue of questioning is the situation in the South West. In fact, there is a post in Lihula and Hanila, a region police officer that has not been filled since the beginning of last year, in an area of more than 15000 inhabitants. There have been three competitions. The salary is not already offered at EUR 600, but 850, but has yet to be found. There's also an unmanned South West patrol. This situation has been going on for so long that even President Ilves mentioned it in his end-of-year interview. 'Some big thing could not be done to have the police in Lihula,' he said. We ask the Home Secretary what big thing we're not doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U11	Thank you. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft law. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I have also accepted two inquiries on behalf of the Riigikogu's management board. If they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressees without delay. Now let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 23 January, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Tallinn Support Group has been established in the Riigikogu. Interested parties can join the Support Group after the end of today's session by contacting a member of the Riigikogu, Valdo Randpere. [[Laughter.]] Quiet, please! The Board of the Riigikogu has approved the departure of a member of the Riigikogu from the Finance Committee of Erki Noole and taking up the position of a member of the Environment Committee. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now making a presence check. Currently, 88 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, missing 13. Let's clarify today's agenda. In the debate on today's item, the draft law amending the Law on National Family Allowances initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party at first reading 303, the initiators' report will be made by Mailis Reps, member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U12	We are going to the debate on today's item. We are planning the first reading of the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I would like to present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U13	Good morning, Honourable Vice President of the Riigikogu. Dear Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act and its main objectives. Under the State Family Benefits Act, the child care allowance is paid from the end of the parental benefit until the child reaches the age of 3. The amount of child care allowance paid to a parent raising a child up to 3 years of age is currently only EUR 38 and 55 cents per month for each 3-year-old child. Childcare allowance is paid to both employed and non-employed parents. If the parent is working, the purpose of the child care allowance is to partially compensate for childcare costs, while the non-workable parent is a substitute income. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft law on child care fees, the payment of child care fees to parents raising children retains the incentive to return to working life, for example, they can start working part-time, doing contract work at home, etc. In this case, the scheme will allow for a smoother integration of work with family responsibilities. The original idea of the child care allowance was to pay the parent a minimum wage. Who remembers the debates at the end of the 1990s also remembers that, as a result, the child care allowance was set at 1200 kroons, which corresponded to about the 2000 minimum wage. However, due to a lack of financial resources, the initial subsidy rate was fixed at 0.5 times the child care rate, i.e. 600 kroons. Unfortunately, in the 2000s it has remained 600 kroons, which is currently 38 euros and 35 cents. In 1998, 600 kroons were paid for raising a child up to 1.5 years of age and 300 kroons were paid for raising a child between 1.5 and 3 years of age, since 2000 600 kroons, now 38 euros and 35 cents have been paid. At present, the allowance is in no way comparable to the minimum wage and does not fulfil its original purpose. At the same time, returning to work has become more difficult. Since 2009, the amount spent on childcare has increased. The negative additional budget for 2009 reduced the proportion of income tax paid by individuals to the local government from 11,93% to 11,4%. A cut of EEK 440 million put a number of local authorities ahead of their choices. Unfortunately, many municipalities lost a wide range of grants, including childcare services for children up to 3 years of age. Municipalities find it harder to pay benefits for families and offer childcare facilities. The cuts made in 2009 also reduced the possibilities for building and renovating kindergartens. Therefore, parents often had to choose whether to go back to work and pay a large part of their salary to babysitting or babysitter, or stay at home with the child and receive this 38 euros and 35 cents child care fee, which does not actually cover the costs. After all, the current family benefit system supports the birth of a child in particular. The cost of parental benefit exceeds 60% of the total cost of family benefits. Therefore, the most burning problem is the very large gap between short-term and long-term family benefits. The most difficult time for parents starts at the end of the parental benefit, when the child grows and the costs increase considerably, but the benefits become very small. During the 2006 study "The development of a child in pre-school age and the different forms of childcare', the Institute for Family Education asked parents what their opinion on the child's appropriate form of childcare was. As expected, parents ideally consider it the only option for a child under the age of 1 that he or she is in the care of his or her mother and father. 92.6% of parents considered home the best option for children up to 2 years of age. They are aware of the well - wishing parents of their child who will probably live through an internal struggle during the second year of their child's life. Quite a few parents, however, need to put their best recognition against the child into child care and go to work. Even children aged 2 to 3 are considered by nearly half the parents to be the best place to live. The results obtained here in Estonia coincide with the attitudes of parents in several other European countries. Parents'descriptions of the beginning of day care and related stress show how worried parents are and how painful their hearts are when they need to take their instincts away from their children's homes. Although most parents would like to be at home with a child up to 3 years of age, they are still forced to work after the parental benefit has ceased. This is also confirmed by the results of the study "Parent benefit: use and effects on labour market and birth rate behaviour 2004-2007' published by the Centre for Policy Studies in Praxis in 2009. According to the study, the effect of extending parental benefits on women's working behaviour is not long-lasting as they return to the labour market after the end of parental benefits. A five-fold increase in child care fees would also make it possible to cover the direct costs of raising children by staying at home with a small child. As a result of the above, the draft law amending the National Family Benefits Act that we have initiated is aimed at raising the child care allowance to EUR 191,75 per month for parents raising children up to 3 years of age. Of course, this is not a very large amount of money, but in view of our calculation, it is the minimum amount that a parent can make a heartfelt desire to offer his child the best. When we talk about the implementation of the bill as a law, it can be said that if we take into account all parents who receive child care payments, which are 23090, and we consider that the draft will apply from the new financial year, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Government of the Republic could consider that the possible cost of implementing the draft is about EUR 42 million. When we discussed the same draft law amending the Family Benefits Act in the previous Riigikogu, the main explanation of the Government of the Republic and the coalition why they do not want to support this bill was that, in any way or otherwise, it is planned to seriously consider extending the payment of parental benefit or other mitigating measures that cover the difference that arises until the child is 3 years old. Unfortunately, we have to say today that, despite the great promises and joys that the 2013 budget is the best budget of the last century at all, no steps have been taken to compensate for the costs incurred during this period of up to 1.5 years of age. That is why we proposed to discuss the draft amendment to the State Family Benefits Act. Dear Riigikogu! This is a very good bill. I hope you will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U14	Thank you very much. Please, Priit Onion, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good speaker! In your speech, you said that this increase to EUR 191.75 is minimal. What would then be a reasonable amount of money, and why did you not propose to increase this fee more than you are now saying that this increase is only minimal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U16	Thank you, member of the good coalition. You will certainly be able to speak to the members of the Government of the Republic on the Coalition Council so that these amounts may be higher. We assumed that although we have unfortunately remained for 13 years to hold this 38 euros, there is no point in going straight to the parental benefit ceiling, which is indeed very high, given Estonia's average salary. In our reasonings, we calculated the minimum food basket. Several institutes have looked at the minimum costs for children. We have analysed the possibilities for municipalities to fund childcare and the extent to which parents are involved. For example, if a parent wants to go to work, how can it support his or her choice of childcare, whether part - time or on certain days? That's where the minimum amount came from. How large these amounts can be, we can see on parental benefit. For a very long time, there has been a promise that parental benefit will be paid until the age of three. What we can do but welcome it! However, it is clear that if more than 60% of the money to support the child's upbringing is paid during the first and a half years of the child's life, but the remaining 16 and a half years are very, very low child benefit, this is not only in our opinion, but also in the light of a number of studies and researchers think that it is the best choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U17	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U18	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I think family benefits are necessary. No one is arguing about this in this Chamber, no party. But I have a question about that amount. Is there some kind of calculation or formula back there that you came up with? Why could this amount not, for example, be 10 euros higher or less? Where did you get that money? Do you have a calculation base?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U19	Thank you. Indeed, a good questioner, as I said, fortunately, quite a number of institutes analyse the minimum needs of people and the costs of children. Based on this data, we have put together this so-called'minimum package'. Of course, it is not enough if we consider that a parent quits his or her job and stays home with his or her child for a long time. We had no ambition to compensate for any loss of income at the level of parental benefit. However, since it is clear that the extension of parental benefit has not been possible in recent years and this issue is probably not on the table of the coalition, it is certainly necessary to soften this transition to at least the third year of the child's life. Unfortunately, in the debate on raising child benefits, child care fees did not come up. That is also why we have now raised this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U20	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U21	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, In recent days, we have heard a lot of data that characterises last year. When you look at migration, the difference between those who left the country and those who arrived here was 6,500 people, 1,500 people died more than they were born, etc. This situation is very sad. Is this measure that you are talking about to some extent a means of helping people to plan a family?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U22	Thank you, good questioner! When we look at the latest human development reports or the studies carried out by Praxis or anyone else, as well as the debates on a key national issue about our future and family policy, we see that two very critical issues have been repeatedly raised. First of all, why has the parental benefit almost stopped, why has the exponential growth of the child stabilized at some point, and now, unfortunately, for many years in a row, the loss of growth? Secondly, what are the chances that we can give parents a sense of security to start a bigger family? On the first question, we have to say that, while we support the child's upbringing considerably during the first and a half years of his or her life, this support will be considerably reduced in the future. The aim of our measure is to slightly soften this transition after the end of parental benefit until the child reaches the age of three. All parents know that if they take a child under 3 years of age to care for their children, during the first month, they will certainly be more at home than in childcare because they suffer from all illnesses and may also suffer from stress. Of course, there are different children and there are also very nice success stories that we can read in forums and hear from parents, but most parents experience that the transition is very difficult. That's one. The second problem is ive. For example, the Human Development Report sets out the following: This was also discussed by experts during the last census. The parents say very clearly that they are not confident about the economic situation and about Estonia's future at all, nor about how they manage to provide education to children and whether social measures are sufficient. The parental benefit gave a positive impetus at the moment, but at one point the reality became clear that it was going to be very difficult. This particularly affects the decision as to whether another child is born into the family. Parents are faced with the fact that, especially for several children, the economic situation is going to be very, very difficult. What is the impact of leaving Estonia here? Unfortunately, it is no longer true that our initial understanding is that young or middle-aged men are leaving, but women and children remain at home. Indeed, the statistics of the last few years of schools show that families are leaving and that children are taken with them. It is feared that for a very large number of children, this process could be irreversible. If they have already adapted to another society, its language and its cultural environment, their return is highly questionable. What can we do? It is certainly a very important social policy here and the same child care fee. Education measures are also very important. Many reforms are being made in education, changes are being made, there are many inconsistencies, the situation of teachers is very unstable, it is not known which schools will remain and which will not remain, nor is it clear what will become of the teachers' employment contract. These signals are a constant source of anxiety and instability in the parents. What does a family want with children? Stability in relation to the future, but that is definitely not the signal. These are aspects that we can highlight today. But surely one of the first things to do is to solve the problems that arise after a child is 1.5 years old.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U23	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Can you tell me, based on which study or analysis has it been decided that the child care allowance is so low now? I don't know where that size is coming from, and why this sum should be exactly what it is. I have seen studies that prove that with this amount, it is not possible to raise children normally and allow children to do what is necessary for their lives. Can you tell me from what research it's been decided that this amount could be so small?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U25	Thank you, good questioner! As I pointed out in the introduction, I can show that 13 years ago was based on computation and logic. Just in the meantime, this measure has been forgotten. Inflation and price increases have eaten up that amount today. That is probably the main reason. Why have we not seen a very clear and systematic increase in subsidies in social policy? Firstly, we have had different political approaches. Perhaps you remember that sociologists also pointed out in the debate on a crucial national issue that most family policy decisions are actually political slogans and lack systemicity. Certainly, in this Chamber today, all the parties agree on the need for this change. Also, financially, EUR 40 million will not be an amount beyond the budget for next year. Look at other decisions that have not been the smartest from time to time. It's politics. The only hope we may have today after the end of the debate is that perhaps this issue came to the attention of the members of the coalition, and perhaps the Ministry of Social Affairs will discuss it in April or May in the preliminary drafting of the 2014 budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U26	Thank you. Please, Tiina Lock-Tramberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U27	Thank you. Honourable speaker! I really enjoyed the description of your problem and the logical and thorough analysis. I'm sure you've thought about where the financial cover could come from with the same level of detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U28	Thank you, good questioner! Having been in the budgetary process, I'm sure you understand why we brought this bill to the hall so early. Our idea is to make it our goal in April-May. In view of the fact that child support has been on the table for almost a year and a half, it is absolutely essential to bring the child care allowance aside here. The personal question is what these measures are and whether this amount will be exactly like this. After all, it can only be applied to new parents and to certain stages. At the moment, we have taken into account the potential growth of the economy and the improvement of the economic situation or the review of priorities. It is certainly not intended that one or the other charge be raised or that the proportion is changed to cover this amendment. If we go to the 2014 state budget procedure, the amendments already include other sources of cover. It is simply economic logic that has been taken into account here at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U29	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good colleague Mailis! We recently discussed needs-based child support in this Chamber, amounting to EUR 9.59 per month. As a good mother, you can certainly tell me what the essentials of this money can afford to a child and how it helps to raise children. For example, if you still have to take a bus to the municipality to prove the need for support, where the bus ticket costs almost as much as the amount of the subsidy, or at least half of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U31	Thank you, good questioner! The needs-based child benefit has been incorporated into the state budget in this form. These are not very large sums of money, but still. I would rather make a contribution so that this support can reach those in need. This creates administrative difficulties in municipalities, especially in areas with a large territory and a small population. I hope that the social worker has, for example, been given the opportunity to use the car or so. He should be familiar with families in difficulty, one way or another. In that case, I hope that the local authorities, despite the small amount, will do their best through their social worker to ensure that this family receives support as easily as possible. Is 9 euros a large amount or a small amount? Given the current amount of child benefit, it is certainly very small, because if we add another EUR 9 to EUR 19, it is not a very large amount either. But it must be taken into account that our very poor families are living in a very, very bad situation. This could just be the first step. I hope and believe that we will do our best not to come back here again in 13 years. If, during the 2014 budget procedure, we are able to add another EUR 9 or EUR 10 again, then perhaps at some point we can say that the child benefit will even cover a completely significant proportion of the costs that the child will incur.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U32	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U33	Thank you, good manager. Good Mailis! I'll see that you've made a very precise calculation that this slope is five times. Is it still a five-fold, maybe it's a quadruple or maybe an eight-fold? It's clear that child care should rise, no one will argue with it. But it makes it look really bad when you see that the calculation is made on a percentage, and it's just multiplied by something. Another time, you could create a little decimal place.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U34	Thank you. With regard to the logic of this multiplication, as you, good Aivar, certainly know, social measures have a so-called base factor, which is multiplied. In the same way, child benefit and various income support have certain rates. Here we have followed exactly the same logic of social benefits. We got the multiplication so that we took the basis for the calculation, as I have already said, the so-called minimum costs, which several institutes have, fortunately, calculated for us, also the Ministry of Social Affairs is doing so quite precisely. We were just looking at what fit in that box. Why wasn't the slope quadruple? Because it didn't fit in there. Why wasn't it six times? Because we took the minimum as a basis. Of course, if there is a desire to increase this amount, then these possibilities will always exist, but we have taken the minimum amount as a basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U35	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U36	Thank you. Dear waitress, As expected, our esteemed colleagues in the coalition are more interested in the issue of money than the unborn children. But we could also talk about these children on the basis of money. Last year, 500 children were not born compared to the previous year. This means that, in 500 cases, the state loses the need to pay parental benefit and after family benefits, there is no need to pay for children's basic education or upper secondary school education, and no need to pay for vocational training. This is a round amount, about EUR 60000 for each unborn child. Last year, the coalition received EUR 30 million in savings for the coming years. Well, based on these calculations, there could be an arbitrary rise, not even a five-fold, but a ten-fold increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U37	Thank you, good questioner! All of us, 101 members of the Riigikogu, have chosen people here, they have trusted us and hope that we will do a certain job. I hope that no one is here to put an end to nationalism as soon as possible. Looking at our real situation and our age, as well as statistical data, something more burning than our survival cannot be imagined as the work of the Riigikogu. Fortunately, both the coalition and the opposition have repeatedly raised this issue, there have been national debates on this issue and various drafts have been put forward. However, I dare to be an optimist, and I think that there is no one in the Riigikogu who would aim the opposite. Everyone wants this country to be as strong as possible. Our lives are a cause for concern. We were proud to be able to make it to the plus side. The statistics for the last three years, however, are very sad, unfortunately, there has been a very rapid decline in growth. If we add more statistics to this, which show that young women are leaving Estonia, we can say that our joint political debate over the next few years must certainly focus on how to keep and support our young talented women (and, of course, men) in Estonia, so that they create a family and raise smart children.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U38	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U39	Thank you, Madam President. I couldn't help but notice that this side of the hall is being asked all the time about the formula by which these calculations were made, and it gives the impression that if the comma were on the right spot or the amount was different, they would, of course, vote in favour, but now it's like they can't do it. I am sorry, my question is perhaps very emotional, but this issue always concerns me very personally. I have always had this feeling that I have given birth to my five children and raised them in spite of the state rather than with the support of the state. You've got a lot of kids, too. Do you have the impression that the country supports the birth and rearing of children? Are you sure if something happens to you, God forbid, the state will do its best to make sure your children grow safe, get educated, etc.? As a mother, how do you assess our family policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U40	It is certainly not possible for a member of the Riigikogu to give general examples, because we can offer our children much more than the average Estonian family, especially the large family. Therefore, personal examples are certainly inappropriate for this bill, if you look at it from me. But when we talk about confidence, perhaps the most comforting sign is that people are leaving now with their families. As long as this was a temporary situation and we thought that young men were just looking for better opportunities in life, but then they come back and start a family here, maybe they're building a house for the family, then it was all like on other grounds. At present, however, families with children or young people who create their own family outside Estonia are leaving. We should definitely discuss this together. Of course, I am not talking so trivially about how to keep them here in Estonia. However, measures must be found to create a sense of security that young people would like to be here, for example, to develop entrepreneurship here and also to start a family here. There is certainly one way to do this, but I am not talking about people staying in Estonia because of subsidies if the types of support are in sync with each other. I stressed several times that there was a time between the end of parental benefit and the next step, which was actually uncovered. The purpose of our draft is to draw attention to this. Of course, it is important to talk about the fact that child benefit is very low, etc. Actually, it depends on what we compare to. If we are talking about the fact that we still have a very good education (hopefully we can keep it), we have a very high level of culture, our business environment is good to a certain extent, then we should be proud of Estonia. However, if we think about other things, it is a lack of tolerance and consideration for each other, or that we have so many people living in poverty, but we pay attention to it with Christmas actions rather than with constant politics, then perhaps we should ask whether we are here in the Riigikogu and have done everything we can to increase our sense of security. I don't think so. Social security and security are very low in society. This is not my opinion or your opinion, or just someone's opinion, but unfortunately research confirms it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U41	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U42	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I think there has been a very constructive debate on this draft in this Chamber. There have been constructive questions and very constructive answers. If the content of the draft is not general principles, but specific figures, then it is entirely natural that these figures will also be discussed. But I was a little surprised by Mr Stalnukhin's question. I just want to clarify: is this now a debate on the draft law amending the Law on National Family Allowances or a debate on the draft law on unborn children?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U43	Thank you. The name of Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu, who wished to reply with the reply, was named. I must say that the possibility of a reply is in the round of negotiations, not in the round of questions. Please, Tiina Lock-Tramberg, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U44	Thank you, good questioner! I'm sure everyone asks as they please. The members of the Riigikogu are different. If I understood the question correctly, Mr Stalnukhin wanted to point out that this is simply a measure that could strengthen the sense of security so that people decide that they do not want only one child, but perhaps two, three, four children or more children. As far as support for raising children of different ages is concerned, I remember when parental benefits were developed. I remember these White Hall forums when society was constantly signaled that this was the first step followed by other steps. Whether for objective or subjective reasons, no other steps have been taken. I believe that the questioners' idea that we should move forward with a broader debate on what the next steps will be is certainly very important. It is clear that it is not possible to pay parental benefit in this form for three years in the current economic situation. However, it is possible to create softer intermediate measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U45	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, You brought in the subject of comparisons yourself. That's my question. It is always reasonable to compare a comparable one. You have certainly examined the state of family policy, for example, in Latvia, Lithuania and other former socialist countries in Eastern Europe, including us.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U46	Thank you, good questioner! It always depends on what purpose we compare. If we look at the situation in our neighbouring countries, especially the situation of emigration or leaving the country, it is certainly possible to see a wide range of deterrents there. At least in Latvia, but unfortunately also in Lithuania, a number of social policy measures have also led to emigration (of course, there are many reasons why such a considerable proportion of people have left). Unfortunately, I am not familiar with Lithuania's research, but I can tell you about Latvia that government studies show that, for example, the community living in Ireland has left Latvia permanently. Their family studies showed that only nearly 2% of these people were willing to consider coming back. Fortunately for us, most of our departures live in a cultural space similar to ours (Finland is still a relatively similar country to us). But I fear that in a few years' time (our studies show that leaving with our family is a relatively recent trend) we may have the same results and simply will not come back. So it depends on who we compare ourselves to. I just got back from Armenia. In the run-up to the presidential elections, there are also discussions on social policy. Armenia's social background is very different from ours. However, if we look at perhaps a little more advanced countries, such as Slovenia or any other such country, they are our examples. The main example of Estonian people, however, is over-cool. It tends to be our biggest competitor even in terms of human drainage. The saddest thing is, they usually go out waking up and younger. When they go to study, especially when they go to university, they are usually among the best (of course there are exceptions). I am certainly not of the opinion that a 22-year-old young person who goes to university knows about whether he or she will receive a child care allowance of 38 or 191 euros in the future, even less I think it would have a decisive effect on him or her. But if her sister or girlfriend has children, then at the moment she decides to start her family, these are the measures that decide whether she will create a family in Estonia or elsewhere. So, yes, in Eastern Europe we may be a role model for many, but when we look at the countries with which the Estonian person usually compares himself, we see that unfortunately we are several times behind them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U47	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Mailis Reps! I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U48	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to explain this bill any further, because the initiator did it very thoroughly. He also responded thoroughly to the questions and explained the reasons behind the draft. The Social Affairs Committee discussed a draft amendment to the State Family Benefits Act in 303. a at the meeting on 14 January 2004. The representative of the initiators, Ms Yana Toom, presented the draft to the Commission. The Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee gave an overview of the position of the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic does not support the draft initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The chairman of the committee put to the vote the first reading of the draft proposal. The proposal was voted in favour of 4 and against 5 members of the Committee on Social Affairs. As the proposal was not supported, the Commission proposes to reject the draft at first reading. However, if the Plenary Assembly decides to close the first reading, the Commission proposes that the deadline for tabling amendments be set in accordance with the general procedure. This was a brief summary of the Commission's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U49	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U50	Thank you, Madam President. Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs! Maybe you're naming a reason why the Government of the Republic didn't support this bill? The members of the Committee on Social Affairs know them, but other colleagues may also be interested in them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U51	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, I read the position of the Government of the Republic at the meeting of the Commission because there was no representative of the Government of the Republic at that meeting. There are various reasons why the Government of the Republic did not support this proposal. The first reason is that there is no evidence that families with children between 1.5 and 3 years of age are at greater risk of poverty than other families. Here are a number of Eurostat data that can be consulted when the position of the Government of the Republic is read (this text is longer, I am not going to read it here). Secondly, the impact of raising child care fees on the poverty of families with children was analysed in 2007 in Praxis, the Centre for Policy Studies, in its study 'The impact of family financial support on poverty reduction in Estonia: analysis using microsimulation method'. According to the Government of the Republic, the analysis showed that raising child care fees to EEK 2 000 is less effective than using other benefits. Whoever is more interested in the matter has to read the whole study. What would be more effective was not specifically mentioned here. The third reason was that after the birth of the child, the Government of the Republic considered a long absence unfavorable. Examples were given that in other European Union countries there is almost no three-year period when a parent is absent from work after the birth of a child. The last reason why the draft was not supported was that the implementation of the draft would lead to an increase in state budget expenditure of EUR 42 million per year. Such additional expenditure will require a reduction in the other budget lines. These were the reasons why the Government of the Republic did not support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U52	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U53	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, As Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, do you acknowledge that Estonia's family policy has failed? This bill also concerns Estonian family policy. When last year's number of births fell by 500, regardless of parental pay, and young women who could give birth in Estonia leave the country, is that not a sign that there is a need to change family policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U54	Thank you, good questioner! I have said very many times from this remote control that Estonia's family policy must definitely be changed. I do not consider this policy to be a failure because we have made these decisions together here and according to our possibilities. We have very positive measures. As the previous speaker said on this board, so-called maternity allowance has had an impact. This has also been acknowledged by demographers. But it is true that the birth rate has decreased over the last two years. It is a concern that the number of births has decreased in particular. One reason is that there are fewer firstborns, because there are just fewer women who have reached birth age. Certainly, it is important to see whether the birth rate for one woman has decreased just as much in the last two years, and then the truth becomes known. However, I have said that we should look at the situation of our families, given our narrow possibilities, and above all improve the situation of children living in poverty. If we look at universal measures, it should be taken into account that, according to various statistical data, even if both parents work in a family and receive a normal Estonian salary, this family is below the poverty line after the birth of the third child. But it is only from the third child that a positive demographic development is taking place. My personal view is that we should focus, in particular, on greater support for third and subsequent children and also on supporting parents raising children alone. But in any case, this initiative is positive. Every initiative and debate in this Chamber of the Riigikogu on families and children is positive, no matter what decision we reach here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U55	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U56	Thank you. The statistics on the birth of children are still extremely poor at the moment. We have returned to almost ten years ago, to 2004. There is a feeling that in the intervening years, although parental benefits were thought to increase the birth rate, this is still not the case. What do you think if the coalition decided to vote against the Centre Party proposal, could this further reduce parents' motivation? Does this show that the state really does not care what happens to children after the end of parental pay?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U57	Thank you, good questioner! We must not draw final conclusions from two years. I hope, just as demographers hope that these children will not be born. But I am the last person to talk about the fact that there are no demographic problems in Estonia. On the contrary, I have repeatedly said that in order for this country to survive, we must very seriously change our attitude towards child and family policy. We must also change our attitude towards the fundamentals of democracy. But this is not the subject of this debate. This bill would cost the state budget EUR 42 million. It seems to me that we should see if it is possible to take any other measures on this scale to support, above all, children living in poverty and those wishing to raise children in Estonia. In 2013, we decided to apply needs-based child benefit and double child benefit from the third child of the family. My sincere hope is that we will also take such steps when drawing up the 2014 budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U58	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U59	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Every time we debate family benefits, there is a very clear contradiction here. On the one hand, the coalition argues that the political direction is such that we must help those who need more help or those who are at risk of poverty. On the other hand, the parental benefit system is based directly on the opposite principle: the one who earned more will also receive higher parental benefit. Don't you see a contradiction here? If you see a contradiction, how do you think it would be possible to resolve it, and is it even necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U60	When we talk about parental pay, it is certainly a positive measure. I won't say a word against that. What's the problem? The problem is that 60% or a little more of the financial support for families with children is paid out in the first and a half years of the child's life. Your draft is clearly moving towards a more even distribution of this money. But the other way around, this is my personal opinion again, this particular measure may not be a priority. I am not sure that because of the EUR 191,75 parental allowance, the parent would decide not to return to the labour market. Rather, it is a question of parents who are either not in employment or whose remuneration was lower than that. The allocation of EUR 42 million to this group does not mean that the objective of having a parent at home and raising a child for three years is achieved. The other part of the question is, however, that according to the law, municipalities have an obligation to ensure childcare. In my opinion, we should focus our eyes on ensuring that this is guaranteed. This is guaranteed in a large number of municipalities, but we know that there are problems in larger cities, especially with younger children of this age, who are also the target group of the draft. There aren't enough kindergarten places for them. That, too, must be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U61	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U62	Thank you. Good colleague! It wasn't by chance that there was a discussion at the committee about how the Minister of Social Affairs voted at the government meeting? From your answers, I understood (this may have been anticipated) how the Minister of Finance voted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U63	Thank you. There was no talk about it. Hanno Pevkur, then Minister of Social Affairs, has signed the position of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U64	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U65	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good chairman of the committee! We heard why you decided and decided to reject the Government of the Republic's draft. But here's the question. The Centre Party launched a draft to alleviate the situation of parents while the child is between 1.5 and 3 years old. You don't think this bill fits. What measures do you propose as chairman of the committee? You must also be quite prominent in the discussions within the coalition. How do you try to alleviate the difficulties that parents face during this period? I'm sure you're familiar with the research that has shown that this situation is problematic.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U66	Thank you. When we are talking about children of 1.5 to 3 years of age, I think that, above all, attention should be paid to the provision of childcare services. Raising the child care allowance to the extent that even if there is a childcare facility, the parent still decides not to put the child in the childcare facility, would be very burdensome for the state budget. With this money, more priority could be given to measures that specifically concern support for children living in poverty, parents raising children on their own and third and subsequent children.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U67	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U68	Thank you. We can argue whether EUR 191 is sufficient or not. But I believe you, as chairman of the committee, are aware that this is a very large amount for large families. In view of that, I'm sure you have a lot of friends with young children. In addition, you may have read some research. How many parents do you think are happy to put their 1.5-year-old child in a nursery, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U69	Thank you, good questioner! I think a mother would like to keep her baby with her as long as possible, even for the rest of her life. No matter how old we are, we're gonna be children for the rest of our lives to our mothers, and they always want to be with us. It is not a question of how to create a situation in which these families have the highest possible standard of living and, at the same time, the possibilities of self-realisation. Since the question was personal, the answer is personal. I am saying that the main problem is that there are no childcare facilities, not whether or not they want to go back to the labour market. This issue must be resolved. Here, the state certainly needs to contribute more in cooperation with the municipalities than it has done so far. During the economic crisis, we were forced to cut down on one measure to create childcare facilities. I hope that, as the economy develops, these issues will return to our table. As regards the introduction to this question, here we fully agree that the country must give maximum support to families with more than two children, namely three, four, five, six children, to enable their children to be raised and developed in such a way that this family and these children do not live below the poverty line.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U70	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U71	Thank you. We talk every step of the way that we are a very successful country, our finances are in order and everything else. But in social policy, we are increasingly only talking about poverty subsidies. Don't we want to support, say, a normal average family who can handle it, but would need the support of the state to do better? Why do we expect a person and family to fall into poverty first and then go begging for alms? Only then will the aid be granted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U72	Thank you, good questioner! The brief summary of my previous story is that we must support families with a variety of measures based on sound economic and financial affairs. We do not have any more cents than the ones that we ourselves serve as the Estonian people and pay for the redistribution of taxes. These measures must be such that families are not at risk of poverty. If they do get there, we have to have additional measures. The system of these additional measures was developed jointly last year. Usually, attention will be paid only to the part of our decision taken last year, which will be implemented this year, which concerns child support based on needs. But I would remind you that by 1 January 2015, we decided to essentially double the allowance for the third and each of the next children. This is a very serious and fundamental step. For that, I am grateful to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U73	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! A while ago, you said from this remote unit that you were fully supportive of a substantive debate in this Chamber. Will the time come when you will also support the decisions that come from next to these debates?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U75	Thank you, good questioner! I am pleased to note that this time, after a ten-year break at the end of 2012, reached this hall. We have made real decisions here, apart from holding debates. I hope that the decision-making process will continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-22_U76	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. Any requests for negotiation? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 303. We must vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 303. Please take a stand and vote. 45 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 34 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Draft 303 has been rejected at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted. I wish everyone a beautiful day! See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 11.09 a.m.
