ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Government and Prime Minister. Let's start the briefing. Please, let's do the presence check first! 44 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 57. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu and Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U2	Let's start asking questions. Ladies and gentlemen, since there are nine registered issues today, I promise only to put forward two issues that have been registered on the ground. Starts with my colleague Ester Tuiksoo, the question is for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Prime Minister! In the past, you have expressed your frustration over too high wages in a public undertaking. These salaries hurt people's sense of justice. These problems are primarily within your coalition partner's jurisdiction. We recall the huge salary of Tero Taskila, the head of Estonian Air, which was over EUR 33000 and for which we actually received a bankrupt airline. Last week, the Board of the Enterprise Estonia appointed a new member of the board of directors for a month's salary of EUR 6500. Is this not again an example of a lack of responsibility for the Council members in resolving pay issues, and this should be done at the level of the law? Are you in favour of this option?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U4	Thank you. I am, of course, forced to agree with the assessment of the sense of responsibility on your question, because I do not think that the Council members have this sense of responsibility in some cases, but I am pleased to say that in only a few cases, there have been enough. I do not consider a proportionate salary of EUR 33000 paid to Tero Taskila, or a salary of EUR 8600 paid to other board members in Estonian Air (EUR 14000 or EUR 18500), or even a salary of EUR 8600 paid to the chief of staff. These are not reasonable amounts. I don't think it's normal for us to pay the head of department of one of the paying agencies a salary of EUR 6500. 6500 euros a month! This is obviously too much, considering Estonia's average wage, wages paid in the Estonian public service, as well as wages paid in comparable companies in the Estonian private sector. It is not possible to regulate everything by law; it is not sensible either. But I have already expressed doubts that we should probably try to set some frames from these two examples. Although I don't think it's a simple process.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U5	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Prime Minister! The Centre Party is once again launching a draft to limit the salaries of public undertakings and foundations managers. The maximum basic salary is set at EUR 6000 per month. We believe that the responsibility of the head of any state company cannot be greater than that of the President of the Republic. For example, you also referred to the private sector for more than 5800 euros a month last year. Is there any hope that the Reform Party Group will support this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U7	Thank you. You must ask the members of the Reform Party Group for an answer. I am not part of the Reform Party Group, but I can tell you my opinion. I do not consider it reasonable to impose such a crooked ceiling in our circumstances, because it would really be difficult for some companies to find a top executive if that were the level of wages. For example, the previous manager of Eesti Energia went to work in Finland and is paid several times more than in Estonia. In the case of some top managers, international competition is indeed a reality and a considerable remuneration is required for a good top manager. At the same time, companies belonging to the state and with wages compared to the private sector are, I would say, even modest. There is no reason to impose a ceiling in these cases; rather, the introduction of a ceiling would stimulate them to strive for this ceiling. I also do not understand exactly why you want to set a ceiling of EUR 6 000 per month, because the President's current monthly salary is far from EUR 6 000. As a reminder, the Prime Minister's salary is 4,000 euros a month. This ceiling of yours is relatively arbitrary, and I do not think it is very reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U8	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U9	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Maybe these paychecks need a discussion, but I'll ask you again. The Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre decided last August that the Chairman's salary would rise to EUR 7000 per month. The Minister of Finance of your government has expressed dissatisfaction with this salary increase. Why are your government ministers not taking this opportunity to replace these Soviet members so that they become members of people who make different decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U10	Thank you. This is also one possible option. As I have already answered, the problem is not perplexing. We should not immediately start thinking that the salaries of the directors of state-owned companies or foundations are unnaturally high in Estonia. No, the comparison with private sector wages, for which there is sufficient comparative evidence, rather confirms that the wages of directors of state-owned companies are in most cases not unduly high, but in some companies they are indeed unnaturally and completely unreasonably high. The salary of the Head of the State Forest Management Centre appears to be below competition from the private sector, given the balance sheet size of EUR 1.2 billion and also that the result is in the order of EUR 20 million per year. I think that in the private sector, the head of such a company would earn much more than the head of RMK, although I still feel jealous.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U11	Two issues registered on-the-spot. Colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U12	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! The introduction of social tax on the dividend that is currently on the agenda is very well attached to the high salaries of the heads of state companies. Almost all the pages are talking about this today, and a number of entrepreneurs are in favour of it. We have a lot of people who make income, but they don't pay social tax on it. What is your opinion, is it ethical to pay wages in the form of a dividend by circumventing the social tax that the law actually permits now? What kind of compromises do you see here? Is it ethical, for example, that doctors who basically work in a social system do not themselves contribute to this system by receiving a dividend?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U13	Thank you. Paying wages as a dividend is certainly not ethical and I would argue that it is not legal either. The dividend must still be paid on the profits generated by the investments and the payment must be clearly targeted in each company and company. But I admit that there are problems; in certain areas, in essence, pay is taken out of the company as a dividend. These issues are being dealt with by the tax administration and, in my opinion, they are being dealt with effectively. But there is a problem and there are no simple solutions. It is very easy to say that we are taxing the dividend on social tax. Yes, we would probably then get social tax properly from some parts of it, but the overall volume of dividends may decrease to such an extent that its effects on employment and investment would be very negative. This is not a place where simple solutions work, where you can easily say that tomorrow we will do differently and everything will be much better. However, an in-depth analysis is essential before making such radical decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U14	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Lenk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U15	Thank you. Prime Minister! You indicated that the strong leaders of our state companies will receive several times higher salaries in Finland. However, I recall that we often have a strong leader today, but tomorrow he will be fired, as happened with Estonian Airis Taskila, the leaders of EAS and others. He's a tough guy today, and he's gonna get a big paycheck, but tomorrow he's not gonna be good enough. Here's my question. Tell me, please, what do you think should be said, for example, of the sense of justice of the people of South-East Estonia earning EUR 320.400 each day, when they look at the huge amounts paid to the leaders of state companies, who are constantly criticized in the paper, such as the current Head of Eesti Energia. What should people's sense of justice say if you say they're hard leaders?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U16	Thank you. I have already asked many times today not to generalise all state-owned companies or state-owned foundations and their managers on the basis of one or two bad examples. I repeat: as far as I know, the managers of our state-owned companies will receive a sum of money, a cross-section, less pay than the managers of companies of comparable size, profitability and balance sheet size in the private sector. The same goes for foundations. I certainly do not agree with the argument that the managers of state-owned companies are predominantly overpaid. But there's no way I'm gonna be an excuse for Tero Taskila's enormous salary. I've been criticizing that salary ever since it came to my attention. I certainly do not agree to justify the new member of the EAS Executive Board with a vote of 6: 5 fixed monthly salaries of EUR 6500, knowing that the head of the PRIA paying almost twice as much grants will receive EUR 2 890 (this may have been the amount) or that the manager's salary will be twice as much in the Environmental Investment Centre, where the amount of grants will also be almost twice as high as the EAS. There's no excuse for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U18	The next question is from my colleague Mr Anvelt to Mr Pevkur, Minister for Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U19	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Your predecessor, Minister of Justice Kristen Michal, initiated the development of lobbying rules at the Ministry. For example, in the press release in October, he delivered a message that society would benefit most from the formulation of good practices for representation of interests. It had also become apparent at that point that mere practices were not enough and that this area should also be embodied in law. The letters that introduced possible solutions also came to the political groups, but there is a silence in the ministry you run. The question here is: do you not consider this issue to be a priority anymore?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U20	Thank you. Silence doesn't mean they don't work. If you look at what has been and what is coming, I assure you that work to clarify and improve the legal environment is ongoing. We will also look at simple developments: there is a rule of law in the field of regulation, as well as good practice in inclusion has been confirmed. Both have a direct bearing on lobbying and drafting. On 1 April, or immediately, a new anti-corruption law will enter into force, which will include these provisions. The most important forward-looking work relates to the revision of penal law. The review of penal law will review, inter alia, the section on power trading, which has been pointed out by GRECO. These work and work continue. GRECO, for example, refers specifically to the need for better regulation of power trading. A clear distinction should be made between the process of legal engagement and the way in which you stand for your interests, and illegal activities, i.e. the trading of influence, are to be recorded in more detail. It's a nice job right now. Hopefully, during the course of this year, the legislative changes developed in the course of the review of penal law will come before Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U21	Please, Mr Anvelt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U22	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister of Justice! Let me ask you a little more specific. Your predecessor made it very clear that this area must also be embodied in the law. The letter that was disbanded was not so much about the Penal Code. According to your predecessor, the lobbying that comes with the drafting of laws at the level of executive power required, as I understand it, to be customary. He meant not how punishment is done when influence is traded, but how this process is done when different interest groups start drafting laws. What is your position on whether this set of rules should exist from the beginning or whether we are only talking about penalties?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U23	Thank you. Surely this set of rules is necessary throughout the process. Once again, I say that, if you look at the steps taken in the form of good practice and legislative drafting, they provide clear guidance on how the right can be changed or created in Estonia. Do we have to write that down exactly? For example, the analysis of lobbying rules carried out by the Ministry of Justice is relatively thick; it was completed last year. There are many topics covered. For example, comparison with other countries has been made, but above all the lobby rules imposed on public authorities have been discussed. Should there be restrictions, for example, on the fact that if you have been a lobbyist, you may not, for a certain period of time, go to public service or, more generally, to public service, or that you may not go to a certain area of work as a lobbyist if you have been an official? These explicit restrictions have been discussed. Similarly, it has been discussed whether restrictions in the public sector are sufficient. It is now very difficult to say exactly which standards are to be set. We still have this debate ahead of us. However, I can say, as you yourself said on the first question, that this problem cannot only be solved on the basis of good practice. There is also one Supreme Court decision, which suggests that good practice alone is not enough, but it is necessary to fix this subject precisely in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U24	Please, Mr Anvelt, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U25	Thank you, Madam President. I want to move towards specificity. We know that we have about a year and a half to respond to GRECO and take some steps. That's why I'm asking you. During the summer and autumn, the former Minister of Justice made very strong statements and said that lobbying was a priority in the near future. I still didn't hear from you the deadlines for the Justice Department to come up with some proposals from the legislator. I am not interested in the impression that, at that time, in the summer and autumn, such a sharp rise in this issue was more related to the fact that the funding scandal related to the Reform Party at that time was even slightly mitigated. What are these specific phrases anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U26	Thank you. The social democrats certainly have a wide range of feelings about what happened last year. But let me assure you that the planned activities are all in place. Once again, during this year, hopefully by the beginning of the autumn session, we will have a review of penal law ready. Let's review the sanctions for trading power, then we can come to prevention. The analysis is ready, and on its surface, decisions can be made. You mentioned GRECO, a community of anti-corruption states. It's very important. You mentioned that GRECO needs to be answered. That's definitely what we're gonna do. The pointer is primarily on the review of penal law. From there we will look at whether and how much we can put in law, in addition to good practice, the rules of lobby.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U27	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U28	Thank you. Good minister! You mentioned power trading. Information has just appeared that the Secretary General of the Centre Party, a good colleague of Priit Toobal, has had an impact on the mayor of Tallinn. He has lobbied that some party associates who have not paid a certain amount of money to the party's cashier should lose their jobs. Surprisingly, they lost their jobs. Do you think it is possible to talk here about lobbying or dealing with influence, which is even criminally punishable, or is it purely a matter of political culture or its absence?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U29	Thank you. However, I would leave criminal law assessments to the bodies responsible, particularly the prosecutor's office and the police. But as far as this whole act is concerned, I believe that we should begin with the last part, or political culture, that you mentioned. Let us look at the funding of political parties more widely. Analysis by the Ministry of Justice shows that political parties from different countries have so-called additional membership fees linked to a certain mandate. It's been voluntary. If the Centre Party has chosen the way that with a certain mandate, such as the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu, the membership fee will be higher than that of the ordinary members of the party, it is their right. When it comes to officials, the general assumption in the public service is that an official is hired according to the suitability of the post, not according to whether he belongs to one party or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U30	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Rait Maruse.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U31	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I am pleased to note that this issue is still being worked on. This should go on, as the issue of party funding, including corporate donations to political parties, is currently also being dealt with. In order to distinguish between companies financing parties or lobbying, it is essential that there are rules on lobbying. I admit it's complicated and it's not an easy job. Have you thought that we should start by not necessarily adopting these lobbying rules by means of a law-level act, but by developing a transitional option, in cooperation with Parliament and, for example, the Chamber of Commerce or someone else, to create good practice or to give examples of practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U32	Thank you. Actually, that's what started the whole thing. The Ministry of Justice contacted the Chamber of Commerce and Industry to discuss whether the creation of good practice could be the first step in establishing lobbying rules. The Chamber of Commerce came up with quite a specific question as to whether we could write down good practice. Further discussions took place and a thorough analysis of the rules of lobbying was carried out at the Ministry of Justice, which showed that good practice could begin. However, the analysis does point out that if we are looking at cases of lobbying violations, where there may be punitive behaviour, there is a need for legal regulation, otherwise it will not be possible to guarantee the procedure for these cases. Breach of good practice, as we know, is not enough in terms of criminal law to convict someone. I would certainly be pleased to see that not only businesses but also stakeholders and NGOs have clear, uniformly recognised rules on how to communicate with ministries during the legislative process. I can give you an example of the drafting of a bill. The category came to meet with the ministry and was accompanied by a lawyer who helped formulate the category's views in a language more appropriate to the Ministry of Justice. In a classic sense, he contributed to the legislative process. Maybe it was even lobbying, but it was a perfectly legitimate act.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U33	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U34	The next question is from my colleague Lauri Laas to Minister for Defence Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U35	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister of Defence! On 8 March, we learned from the Estonian Päevaleht that repairs to the victory pillar of the War of Independence and the reorganization of the cull do not seem to stop. This time, the slope behind the winning pillar is dug up and rebuilt, as its construction quality is very poor. The soil is unevenly sank, and the grass on the slope does not grow. According to the engineers, the reason is that there is a deviation from the construction project: where sand should be the aggregate, construction waste has been used for saving purposes, and no proper techniques have been used to compact the soil layers. What steps have been taken by the winner, the Ministry of Defence, to explain who is responsible for the construction of the construction cull in order to build the slope of the winning pillar?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U36	Honourable member of the Riigikogu! As a reminder, the Czech company Sans Souc was responsible for building the monument, and Celander was responsible for the works of the ceremony court, including the construction of the slope behind the winning pillar ceremony square. With regard to the Czech company Sans Souc, which created the pillar, the Ministry of Defence turned to arbitration because of the crackdown. I am pleased to say that the Court has issued a full claim in favour of the Ministry of Defence, amounting to EUR 696828, and payments will start on 1 April. a. As regards the work carried out by Celander, it should be pointed out that Celander was wound up in 2011. As there are problems with water damage and that the slope is sinking, Riigi Kinnisvara AS made an expert assessment. Clearly, our central monument must be impeccablely organized. It turned out that Harjumägi lacks proper sediment drainage and the Tallinn Municipal Board should complement the drainage systems to improve the situation. This has also been brought to the attention of the government. Drainage systems were renewed in 2010 to the extent that the Ministry of Defence was able to. The UK authorities argue that the UK authorities did not provide any evidence that the AGL is not compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and that it is not compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (3) Experts believe that this is a construction cull and that this work needs to be redesigned, and that it is necessary to use the filling surface that has been brought from elsewhere. This is the position of the Ministry and is implemented by Riigi Kinnisvara AS, which currently manages this object.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U37	Please, Mr Laas, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, We heard that the maker of the works is bankrupt, so the cost of converting the works will probably be borne by the taxpayer. But the problems with the back of the pillar began to appear as soon as the pillar was completed. Anyone who walked past it could see that. Why didn't they react as soon as the errors occurred, or to eliminate the deficiencies that were required when the guarantee was still in force?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U39	Thank you. As I said, this company was wound up in 2011. Riigi Kinnisvara AS has ordered expertise and has identified the work. The total value of Celander's contract was EUR 1,7 million. The agreement provided for the organisation of the ceremony square and its surroundings, with a share of work on the slope of EUR 30000. It is clear that these works must be carried out in such a way that the surroundings of the victory pillar of the War of Independence are in perfect condition. It is clear that the expertise has identified both the designer and the builder's responsibility for the construction cull.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U40	Please, Mr Laas, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, According to the law, such an object must also have the supervision of works. Who was in charge of supervision at the time and maybe it would be possible to turn this claim against the supervising company, even if it has not gone bankrupt in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U42	In cooperation with Riigi Kinnisvara AS, the Ministry of Defence will certainly analyse the responsibility of both the builder and the supervisor. That's definitely what we're gonna do. Once the liability has been determined, we shall enforce these claims in full. As I said, we have turned to the court against the Czech company Sans Souc, which has set up the winning pillar, and we have achieved a full victory. As far as the problems of the slope are concerned, they have occurred over time. As the expert suggests, they could not be identified immediately, but only after the rainwater gathering and the slope that took place over the years. Over time, the slope has sunk, and this sinking and build-up of rainwater are causes that require response. A construction expert has been carried out and it has been found that the work has been done and that it needs to be properly redesigned. If it is possible to reverse claims against persons who have participated in these works, it will certainly be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U43	Please, a matter registered on the ground, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The monuments of freedom in several regions are of similar importance to the victory pillar. As far as you know, the wish to build and restore the freedom monument is also in Valga. It has been negotiated with the Ministry of Defence and certain amounts have been allocated. However, the local community and the initiators see that this amount is not enough to open the freedom monument this year. Do you agree to renegotiate negotiations to support the freedom monument to be opened in Valga?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U45	Thank you. Restoring the freedom monuments of local cities and settlements or erecting new monuments has been a very grateful work for local people and communities and municipalities. The Department of Defense is very supportive of this. The Ministry of Defence has also agreed with the City of Valga in accordance with the agreement. I am sure that this monument will be erected in cooperation between the state and local government and with the help of local national associations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U46	Please, the last issue registered on the ground, my colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U47	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister of Defence! You speak very professionally of the build-up of rainwater and of all structural failures. But who do you think should be politically responsible for such a failed building?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U48	I absolutely do not agree with the fact that the Statue of Victory for the War of Independence has failed. Today I took the wreath to the satisfaction of Johan Laidoner's family because it was 60 years since Johan Laidoner died. The victory pillar of the War of Independence is our central national monument designed to celebrate the military victory. The fact that there have been structural problems in the technical execution of the pillar, and, as I said, they have also been in connection with the surroundings of the ceremonial court, is a question of the performers. It is the responsibility of the State as the organiser of the works to make claims if the works have not been carried out properly. As I said, with regard to the Czech company Sans Souc, the arbitration procedure has taken place, the total claim was imposed by the court in favour of the State and these payments begin. If there's underwork around the ceremonial court, you're gonna have to do it again. The importance of this monument requires that the monument itself and the surrounding area are properly organized. The Ministry of Defence and the maintainer of this monument will certainly ensure that Riigi Kinnisvara AS will.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U49	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U50	The next question is from my colleague, Heljo Pikhof, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U51	Thank you. Prime Minister! On 20 February, the Minister of Education said in the Grand Hall of the Riigikogu that the Director can employ any person with a higher education as a teacher. In other words, in kindergarten, comprehensive school and upper secondary school, people who do not have a pedagogical higher education can work, while the professional mastery of a person remains at the discretion of the Director. I quote the Minister of Education: 'We will allow more to test us. ' Have you discussed in the government which other institutions would agree to be tested by unskilled people? Let's look at the judicial bodies, the health authorities, the transport companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U52	Thank you. I don't think you quite referred to the words of the Minister of Education. Evidently, it was not his idea that unprepared people should start working at school. I do not believe that Mr Aaviksoo has said this, which is why I am not going to fight with this statement right now. At the same time, we must admit that we have at times set the level of education requirements very high. It would be wise to bring the bar more into line with real opportunities, not only in education, but also in a number of other standards. I agree with this general approach. As regards the existence or absence of higher education, such a requirement cannot be imposed on members of the Riigikogu, nor is it imposed on ministers. There are no ministers in the current government without higher education, but there have been such ministers in Estonia. I am saying that there have been successful ministers in several European countries who have not had a higher education degree. I don't want to promote lack of education, but that's not the only indicator. Wills and reality must come together. We cannot set the bar so high that resources will inevitably force us to run under the bar.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U53	Please, Mr Pikhof, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U54	Thank you. I do not quite agree that I do not know what people with education and training can teach children. Indeed, this is what our Minister of Education said in this very Chamber of the Riigikogu. According to the latest data from the Estonian Education Information System, nearly 2,000 students dropped out of primary school in 2006-2009. On the basis of the data provided by the schools, there are 24000 children in Estonia who need additional measures to complete the curriculum if the aim is to raise people who are coping. There are 5,000 children with more serious disabilities among them, while in the other cases, caring support could prevent or alleviate behavioral disorders and learning difficulties, early school leaving and even later failure in the labour market. What is the reason for the government's view that it is appropriate to remove the positions of assistant teachers and to leave the funding of support specialists to chance?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U55	You again attribute to the government statements and positions that we have not had, as you also attribute to the Minister claims that obviously have not been heard from him. No one's going to give up the help teachers, that's not the point. On the contrary, in order to better teach students with special needs, more efforts are planned to be made to assist teachers. I think you're fighting windmills now, not real problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U56	Please, Mr Pikhof, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U57	Thank you. I hope you've read the new basic school and upper secondary school law. There's not even an assistant teacher institution inside anymore, in the current law it is. That's where everything else comes from. The website of the Ministry of Education and Research has an in-depth analysis of the cost to Estonia of the under-educated population. It points out that the provision of secondary education to people with basic education or even lower levels of education alone would add 0.32% to the state budget. Here's my question: have you found any secret weapon, how it is possible to earn additional revenue in the state budget without contributing to our children and young people at the right time? I would also like to remind you that logos, special pedagogues and others will not be financed from the state budget in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U58	Oh, yeah, there were three questions, three categorical arguments, and none of them I can agree with. How can you now say that the Estonian state does not contribute to the education of children? After all, every person whose children have attended school understands that the Estonian state contributes to the education of children. These are inappropriate propaganda statements that I, I think, cannot even discuss here. You referred to children with special needs. You should know that the state has recently done more to fund these children, which has increased the so-called bounty of these students by 24%. To claim that the country has done nothing and that the country does not even want young people to have a good education is not appropriate in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U59	Please, a matter registered on the spot, Mr Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U60	Thank you. First of all, as a reply, there really is no such concept as 'help teacher' in the current basic school and upper secondary school law. But here's my question. This was about the possibility of recruiting teachers who do not exactly meet the academic qualifications of the teacher. Currently, directors of schools are portrayed as stupid people who are unable to make the right choices in terms of personnel, who will certainly employ the worst people they have to take. The projects "Back to School" and "Youth to School" have been very well launched in Estonia, which have produced good results. However, there is now a situation where a chemist with a doctorate can teach at a university but not at a general school. Do you think this is a reasonable situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U61	There was an answer to your question. If he's still with his doctorate and he can lecture, teach lessons, and supervise laboratory work at the university, why shouldn't he be allowed to teach school lessons? These barriers are sometimes artificially built by us. You referred to the doctor of science, but I think the strict framework for taking up the duties of directors, for example, could be reviewed. I have a degree from the university, among other things, as a chemistry teacher, in addition to organic chemistry, I also studied pedagogical subjects, but I don't think I should go to school by the current standards. Maybe you shouldn't?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U62	Please, the last question registered on the spot, Mr Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U63	Thank you. Just to update my knowledge, however, the PGS currently contains the subject of a teacher's assistant or assistant teacher very clearly. In order to speak on this subject, members of the Riigikogu should be more familiar with it. But I'm asking you if you think it's possible to increase the role of teachers' assistants, even if you think it's possible to reduce the drop-out from primary school. However, this loss is too high.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U64	Yes, it is certainly possible to reduce early school leaving through more individualised treatment of children with special needs. This way of treating children with special needs from Soviet times, on the basis of which children were placed in special schools, for example in the case of diabetes or other diseases, has now been completely forgotten in several Nordic countries, even decades ago. I have attended a school in Norway, where children with severe mental disabilities also studied in the normal class, assisted by teachers or assistant teachers (this is already a matter of taste, what to call them). The parents of children with special needs, children themselves and other children who did not have any special needs, were satisfied with this. No human, no child is completely untalented. Every child has a gift, and it needs to be found. When children with special needs learn in the same class as normal children, these regular children also learn to look at the world from a different angle and eventually enrich everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U65	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U66	The next question is from Inara Luigas to the Minister of Defence, Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'll go on with the kids. The Estonian state is designed to protect the people and freedom, so it is loved to repeat again and again in the festival talks. During the weekdays, however, protecting the people takes a second tone. The public expects the state to protect against the difficulties of coping and poverty. Statistics also speak this language. As a children's ombudsman, the Chancellor of Justice has compiled an overview 'Poverty and related problems in families with children'. The review shows that almost 1 in 5 children live in absolute poverty in Estonia. In addition to children at risk of poverty, 63000 children are affected by poverty. Many cases suggest that children in need often suffer from malnutrition. My question is to you as Minister for Defence and Chairman of the IRL: what must be done today and tomorrow, so that children, future protectors of our country and people, should not think about bread in school hours?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U68	Thank you, Honourable Asker. This is undoubtedly a very important and central issue in terms of social protection and the fact that public social expenditure is precisely for the benefit of those in real need. It is therefore very sensible to reform family allowances, which should enter into force this summer and gradually raise family allowances on an ad hoc basis, progressively up to 2015. It is these important keywords, family income and the number of children in the family that have been taken into account in this regard. However, when it comes to state social policy and the share of social expenditure, it should be said that the four-year national budget strategy adopted last year envisages an increase in state social expenditure to approximately half of the total budget by 2016 to 48.4%. Coalition partners have the idea that the need for child benefits and family benefits should be better realised, as should the aid provided by local authorities in the hands of those in need. This is something that needs to be done. These practical steps, which Parliament has also taken, confirm this. However, in the wider sense, in the fight for better management and in the fight against poverty, growth in employment and real wages is still important, so that people can support themselves and their families by working. Therefore, it is very important that real wages have increased for the fifth quarter in a row, albeit only step by step and at first little, however. Government policy must certainly be at the heart of economic growth, which means an increase in real wages and that people can support their families.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U69	Please, Mr Luigas, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U70	Thank you for your answer. Increased family benefits will certainly not improve this situation, which may be a little lessening, but will not. A lot of newspaper articles say that children have nowhere to go after school and have nothing to do. Sports opportunities should be the basis for strong and healthy people to grow from our children. However, during the cut-off period, in 2009, the IRL and Reform Party decided with an additional budget to change the situation by reducing the income base of local governments through the Sport Act and the Youth Work Act. Now there are even court decisions where the municipality, who has contributed to sports, is accused of wasting money. If the government deprives children of such opportunities, how can we ensure the patriotic spirit of our future Estonian state and people's defenders?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U71	Thank you. No one will leave Estonian children unprotected. As regards the assertions that municipalities are accused of supporting sport and children's activities, I unequivocally reject them. Such accusations have certainly not been made. As regards support for children's activities of interest, action in addition to general school education is essential for children's balanced development. That is why the Coalition has agreed that our aim is to introduce, as of 1 January 2014, so-called 'round money', or 'interest support', to support children's activities. In what way and how it will be implemented, the question of preparing a specific draft is certainly a matter of Parliament's final decision. I am sure that this initiative will be supported by Parliament. However, as regards the livelihood of Estonian families in the wider sense, I stress that the key is the development of the economy, which ensures more employment and that people's wages, people's incomes, are increased. It's a central government policy. Farther away, it will ensure that people receive better incomes, education. This is why the government has prepared a very comprehensive programme of educational innovations and Parliament is also currently in the process of updating the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. In the long term, the entire educational cycle is linked to the living conditions of people in all parts of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U72	Please, Mr Luigas, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I can give you an example. There is a court settlement in Kuusalu parish. It is as if the local government is accused of unduly paying for expenditure for which it is not obliged. My colleague, Heljo Pikhof, spoke a lot about children, amendments to the basic school and upper secondary school law, etc. Very many children with special needs are directed to our regular school, but teachers are not able to teach all the students there. We know that there is a substitute service in Estonia. Males who have to undergo military service can also serve in educational institutions if, for example, religious or moral convictions do not allow them to carry a weapon. They can also serve in educational institutions where students with special needs study. How is this system organised and how does it work?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U74	Thank you. Indeed, according to the Constitution, the general rule is that young men who are members of the armed forces must undergo military service, but young people have the right to refuse military service on world-view, persuasive, and religious grounds. They can be offered a replacement service. The Defence Forces here cooperates with various institutions, namely those with a humanitarian and social role, including welfare institutions. These young people will be able to realise their responsibility there. According to current practice, this contribution is no less physically than in military service. This is certainly a necessary job for young people and deserves full recognition if young people have made this choice for world-view reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U75	Thank you very much, Minister. Question time's over. I will conclude on this issue. Many thanks to the members of the Riigikogu for asking questions and many thanks to the members of the government for answering questions! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U76	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I will give the Riigikogu to the proceedings of the Riigikogu a draft law supplementing § 81 of the State Assets Act on the procedure for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of a legal person with public participation. According to current practice, the Riigikogu commission coordinates its decision only with the appointment of members of the council of a legal person whose activities are governed by a special law. In a legal person whose activities are not governed by a special law, the members of the Council shall be appointed collectively by the minister or government. The public has speculated that the appointment of members of the Council by the Minister is a political agreement between the parties and, sometimes, their great donors, whether or not the candidate has sufficient competence to work as a member of the Council in this area. In order to prevent abuse of executive power and to increase the reliability and transparency of public administration, the consent of the relevant committee of the Riigikogu must be obtained when a member of the supervisory board of each legal person with public participation is appointed after the draft Act enters into force. If consent is not obtained, the executive must propose a new candidate for a member of the Supervisory Board. State-owned legal entities are state assets, state-owned property belongs to the people in a democratic country, and its governance is delegated to the constitutional representatives of the people. According to the State Assets Act, state assets must be managed in a purposeful, rational, sustainable and prudent manner. In order to achieve this objective and thereby better protect the interests of citizens in the management of state assets, it is essential in a parliamentary state that the Riigikogu has the right to vote in the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of a legal person with public participation. This will ensure that the appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board is subject to a broad debate and assessment of the suitability of the candidate, which will in turn increase the competence of the members of the Supervisory Board of a public legal entity and improve the quality of the decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U78	Thank you. Please, birthday boy Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U79	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On an important day for me, I decided to give a gift to the government coalition. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I will hand over a draft law aimed at harmonising the company in which the state has at least the power of decision and the remuneration of members of the management board of the foundation established by the state with the salary system of senior civil servants. The draft law once again finds that the salary of the directors of such companies could be based on the wage rate of the President of the Republic of Estonia, as according to the Constitution the President has the greatest responsibility in the Republic of Estonia. We have developed this draft law further and have come to the conclusion that this time, together with the processing of this draft, the improvement of the premium system for good performance could be on the table, because our aim is not to make competitiveness worse. But leading coalition politicians, whose opinion is very important to me, such as Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, have repeatedly raised their eyes on how it is possible for the EAS Council to conclude such an employment contract again, etc. The list could be continued. Let us discuss this together, ladies and gentlemen, and let us make things beautiful in Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U80	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U81	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, 15 Social Democrats submit inquiries to the Minister of Justice. The subject is crimes in the interests of the party. Last Wednesday's TV show "The Spectator" revealed that Paul Kärberg, a member of the IRL in the Peipsi area, forced a large number of his employees to join the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and to vote for Aivar Koka in the elections. We would like the Minister of Justice to make a clear assessment of cases where individuals with influence are forcing people to enter a party with threats and to vote in favour of certain politicians. The Penal Code includes criminalised forced partying, violation of the freedom to vote and vote, as well as the purchase of a voice. These offences are punishable by up to a year's imprisonment. Unfortunately, criminals may feel secure because it is extremely difficult to gather evidence in their actions and surveillance activities are allowed only when they buy a voice. We ask Mr Pevkur whether it is possible for the investigative bodies to prove that the party is forced to enter and that there is a violation of the right to vote, or whether surveillance should also be allowed when investigating these offences. The Minister has to say whether the situation in which the employee enters the party appointed by the employer constitutes an offence within the meaning of the Penal Code. We also look forward to Hanno Pevkur's assessment of situations where the municipality receives public investment support, provided that the municipality's elder enters a particular party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U82	Thank you very much. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to process them within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall forward it to the addressee immediately. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a the Protocol on the concerns of the Irish people relating to the Treaty of Lisbon on the draft law on ratification, the commission of which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to be annexed to the Treaty on European Union and to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, launched on 11 March. Second, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Water Act, initiated on 11 March, of which the commission is the Committee on the Environment. Third, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Copyright Act, initiated on 11 March, the commission of which is the Committee on Culture. Fourth, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Customs Act and the Prisons Act initiated on 11 March, the commission of which is the Committee on Legal Affairs. Fifth, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services, initiated on 11 March, and related amendments to other laws, of which the commission is the Committee on Social Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? One clarification: at the debate on today's fourth item, the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic at second reading, Tõnis Kõiv, Member of the Environment Commission, will present a presentation by the lead committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U83	The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the State Legal Aid Act, the State Fees Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and related other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption of this bill as a law requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, I would like to ask you once again to check our presence! 90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 11. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the final vote draft law 346 amending the State Legal Aid Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the State Tax Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws related to it. Please vote! 88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U84	The second reading of the draft law amending the Civil Service Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. For a presentation, please, the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Margus Tsahkna.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U85	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, On 28 January, the Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Civil Service Act and other laws 365, the first reading of which was completed in this Chamber on 20 February. On the proposal of the Social Committee, the President of the Riigikogu set the deadline for submitting amendments at 4 p.m. on 26 February 2013. The members of the Riigikogu political groups did not propose any amendments to the draft. On 8 February, the Estonian Cities Association addressed the Social Affairs Committee. In addition to the Association of Estonian Cities, they expressed their written opinion on the draft and made their proposals to amend the Public Service Act Tartu City Government and the City Chancellery of Tallinn. Since these are proposals to amend the law on basic public service, the Social Affairs Committee sends these proposals to the Ministry of Justice and the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, who are the main mentors of the Civil Service Act. If necessary, the Riigikogu can initiate legislative changes. The Ministry of Finance also addressed the proposals to the Social Affairs Committee. On the basis of these proposals, the Committee on Social Affairs proposed five amendments to the draft text. After completion of the first reading of the draft, the Committee on Social Affairs met at its meetings on 28 February and 11 March to discuss the draft and prepare the second reading. Officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance took part in these discussions. The five amendments that the Committee on Social Affairs has included on the draft are broadly as follows: The first amendment clarifies the concept of 'wage', making it more precise in the law. The Civil Service Act deals with the basic salary, but according to the current version, all premiums and other such charges would have been included in the salary. It was such a proposal to clarify the concept. Amendment 2 relates equally to the concept of pay. Amendment 3 concerns the compensation of leave for persons whose position becomes a job. As you know, according to the new Civil Service Act, some of the former officials will be awarded a work contract on preferential terms. As the new Civil Service Act enters into force on 1 April. a, then it is precisely with regard to the compensation of leave days that technical clarification is needed. For those with whom a new contract of employment is awarded on preferential terms, the previous days of leave will not be reimbursed financially, but the calculation of leave days will be carried forward on the basis of the new contract. It ensures equal treatment in both ways, both for those who remain in employment under the Civil Service Act and for those who choose to continue on preferential terms on the basis of a contract of employment, which is probably the majority. The fourth amendment provides for a transitional provision in the Local Government Organisation Act according to which the limitation of employment on the basis of a contract of employment does not apply before the 2013 local elections. In particular, the transition to the new Civil Service Act creates a situation where part of the posts previously covered by the Public Service Act goes under the Employment Contracts Act. There would therefore be a situation where, from 1 April, those currently employed as a council member should not continue to work as a council member and should resign. We considered it reasonable to extend the application of this provision of the Civil Service Act until the next municipal elections. Five months before the next elections, there is no point in recalling from councils those officials who, under the law in force, may work in this place. This provision of the new Civil Service Act and the Local Government Organisation Act would enter into force after the results of the next municipal elections to be held this autumn have been announced. The fifth amendment relates to the date of entry into force of the holiday calculation. Under the amendment, this provision would enter into force on 27 March, which would allow sufficient time for the calculation of leave days if on 1 April. a The new Civil Service Act will enter into force in full. The amendments have now been briefly presented. The Commission decided to propose to the Bureau that the draft be sent to the plenary session on 13 March and that the second reading be closed. All the decisions on the amendments, as well as the decisions to be taken in this Chamber, were consensual. The Committee on Social Affairs also decided that if the second reading of the draft was completed on 13 March, the third reading of the draft should be carried out on 14 March 2013 and adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U86	Thank you very much, Mr Tsahkna. Question, Mr Lember.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U87	Thank you. Good waitress! Did you form a principled position in the committee, do you support similar positions from the urban union and the city government of Tartu and Tallinn? Do you support them or did you not discuss it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U88	Thank you. We have decided that we will not open this debate because it is a matter of principle concerning the fundamental agreements of the Civil Service Act. This discussion was held in the Chamber of the Riigikogu when the Civil Service Act was prepared. Since the purpose of the draft law before you today is to introduce purely technical and implementing provisions into the law, we found that we would rather pass these concrete proposals on to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Ministry of Justice who prepared the draft law on public service. The Constitutional Commission was also a leading committee in the Riigikogu. They have greater competence and so-called historical experience to discuss this issue. I think it is also in the interests of the Union of cities and of all those who turn.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U89	Please, Mr Lokk-Tramberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Can you tell me if the position becomes a job from the moment the thank-you payment is deducted?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U91	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U92	Thank you. According to my knowledge, the Civil Service Act does not provide for a thank-you payment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U93	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, In the course of processing this draft, it became clear to all of us that there was another type of public service in Estonia, i.e. politicians receiving the so-called'remuneration', such as rural municipalities, councillors, councillors, etc. This draft deals with them and imposes certain restrictions on them, while ATS does not deal with them. While the guarantees of members of the Riigikogu are clearly recorded in the law, for example, the guarantees of politicians receiving remuneration at local government level are virtually no longer in existence in the law. Have you discussed taking them back on the table and reviewing ATS in this respect?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U94	Thank you, good questioner! This is one of the issues that we referred to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. It's a matter of principle. This dispute was already held when ATS was discussed. After all, the amendment of the Civil Service Act was expected for many years. The new law has been adopted here and will enter into force in s. a from 1 April. I predict we'll come back to this hall again and again with questions about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U95	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U96	I am asking about the first change you made in the Commission. It is and it isn't. Paying night wages for night work is, of course, an arithmetical trick. However, in the case of the premium, there must also be a case where one employee replaces another employee with a higher salary. Well, then, that's appropriate. In this wording, these people will be deprived of these fees. If you're in a lower position, on a lower salary, and you're replacing someone who's in a higher position, working overtime or any other extra charge, your extra fee will come from your lower salary. That's the kind of shit that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U97	Thank you, good questioner! The reason for this amendment was that the term 'wage' was incorporated into the law as such because the term 'pay' in the Employment Contracts Act was automatically taken over. If all the extras are included in the salary, it is necessary to specify the content of this concept. The replacement with basic salary was the change. But if there is such a situation as the questioner mentioned, we must discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U98	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Tsahkna. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. As has already been said, there are five amendments to the draft law. The first, second and third amendments have been tabled by the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu; they have been fully taken into account by the commission. The fourth and fifth amendments have also been tabled by the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu and have been fully taken into account. We have examined all the amendments. The second reading of bill 365 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U99	The second reading of the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Rescue Services Act and the related Law Amendment Act begins. I would like a presentation by Mr Igor Gräzini, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Speaker's Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U100	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, There had been no additions or corrections to this draft as of 25 February, but a letter from the Minister for the Interior, containing a number of proposals, was received on 25 February, so that something could be added to this document which, although not directly related to the content of the document, is close enough to it. The reason why this letter came is that on 9 April we will be transferring to a new information system called the Schengen Information System II, which will change to some extent both the data and the legal regulation resulting from our membership of the Schengen area and the related information system. The amendments are in place and basically go back to the following: In one case, the word "directly applicable" disappears. The regulations are directly applicable; other legal documents will be applied in a slightly different way in our system. Secondly, the database of the Ministry of the Interior will be a national part of the Schengen Information System. Thirdly, there is an overview of the data to be entered in the register. This is about the person wanted for surrender or extradition, the person who is missing but wanted, as well as wanted witnesses, accused persons and convicted persons, and information relating to freezing, confiscation or the provision of evidence in criminal proceedings. It has also been specifically mentioned that data are to be recorded on the items carried by the person in the vehicle, on the ship or on the aircraft. The amendment is that, until then, this information could only be used for things that moved by land. Data relating to a person within reasonable limits are also provided separately: vehicle, ship, aircraft or container data. These are additions which were examined and approved by the Commission in the light of a letter from the Minister for the Interior. The Commission's proposal is unanimous: these amendments should be fully taken into account. As regards the law on police and border guards and the pay and social points in it, as they were at first reading, they remained the same. The Commission's proposal is that these points should also be taken into account. At its meeting on 25 February, it was decided to put all this stuff on the plenary agenda on 13 March, which is today. If our proposal to stop second reading is taken into account, we have a proposal to send this draft to third reading on 14 March, tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U101	Thank you very much, Mr Gräzin. Please ask a question from my colleague, Kadri Samson.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U102	Thank you. Dear Igor Gräzin! Did I understand correctly that amendments came from the Ministry, which did not concern the text of this bill, which was perhaps only conceptually related to the bill? Would it not have been more appropriate to propose them from the Ministry even before the draft was handed over to the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U103	It would have been, yes, but it was offered as it was offered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U104	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U105	I'm gonna take this opportunity to say that after this meeting, there's gonna be a meeting of the Peipsiveere Support Group right outside the door. Let me get this out of this remote control, and they won't let me.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U106	Dear colleague Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U107	Peipsiveere Support Group meeting, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U108	Dear colleague Igor Gräzin, the meeting of the Peipsiveere Support Group does not concern the debate on this draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U109	It still does, and Peipsi has a body of water.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U110	Please, do colleagues wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let us examine the amendments that were five. The first, second, third, fourth and fifth amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, i.e. they have been fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. Second reading of Bill 364 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U111	The second reading of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to ask Tõnis Kõiv, Member of the Committee on the Environment of the Speaker's Board, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu completed the first reading of the Bill amending the Nature Conservation Act and the State Assets Act 289 on 23 January 2013. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 4 p.m. on 6 February 2013. The draft proposal was submitted within the deadline and the Environment Committee received two opinions, one from the Estonian Private Forest Association, the Legal and Analytical Department of the Office of the Second Riigikogu. The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed amendments to the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the State Assets Act on Monday, 25 February. In addition to the members of the Committee on the Environment, there was an adviser from the Legal Department of the Ministry of the Environment, kt Merike Laidvee. The amendment now submitted to the Committee on the Environment. This was presented by Ms Annely Akkermann, Member of the Commission. The proposal was to rephrase the last sentence of § 66 (6) of the State Assets Act and replace the sentence 'preferably the owner of a property with a longer common forest boundary' with the sentence 'preference is given to the owner of an immovable property that has made a higher offer of them'. At the same time, it would like to add a sentence stating that the border marking on the border of the property in the area of the forest section is also considered to be a common forest border. As we know, according to the current regulation, the border marking is not the basis for independently determining the common border; the common border must still be longer than one point. According to the justification for the amendment, the current situation will be used for ex ante arrangements prior to the auction of immovable property. As a result, in many cases, the property will be auctioned at the starting price of the person who has the right to exercise the right of priority. According to the author of the amendment, 70-80% of the real estate acquired in this way will in practice be transferred to third parties within one to three months. It can therefore be said that regulation does not quite fulfil the objective of creating greater forest-locked areas and making their management more sensible. The position of the Ministry of the Environment is that the change is reasonable and they support it, but they believe that the common border crossing point is still not enough to prove its prerogative. They come from a decision of the Tallinn Administrative Court, which says that a common border point is not a common forest border. The new draft Land Cadastral Act, which is being prepared according to the Ministry, also makes a clear distinction between the border crossing point and the section of the border, and the forest massif means a single whole, which can also be managed in a uniform way. We all understand that if the border crossing is the only connection, it will not be possible to pass through without going to other properties. Following the discussion, the Committee on the Environment decided to support the first amendment tabled in a consensual manner. The second proposal, which was drafted by the Committee on the Environment itself, with the deletion of a sentence that talks about a common border crossing point, was clearly supported throughout. We also discussed the opinions received from the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the Estonian Private Forest Association. First of all, a few words about opinions themselves. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu introduced us to the idea of how the property owners, who have become entitled to be bought by the state from them by means of conservation restrictions, could move in this order of purchase. As is well known, those whose immovable property is subject to restrictions after the acquisition of the immovable property have priority under this bill and those who have knowingly acquired the immovable property with limitations will retain that right, but they will move to the end of the buy-out order. The Commission was of the opinion that, as proposed in the draft, it was correct. The representative of the Ministry of the Environment gave further explanations. No amendment was introduced on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department. The opinion of the private forest association was essentially reflected in the fact that the situation could remain the same, which is something that should not be changed. At first reading, the Minister of the Environment, who represented the Government of the Republic, spoke quite long and comprehensively about why this situation needs to be changed. The Committee on the Environment therefore simply took note of the opinion of the private forest association. On 25 February the Committee on the Environment made the following decisions on draft law 289: to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that 289 second reading be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Wednesday 13 March. a, propose to the Riigikogu plenary to stop the second reading of draft 289 and present here the list of amendments to the Chamber, the text of the second reading of the draft and the explanatory memorandum. When the Riigikogu draft 289 completes the second reading, we will propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft 289 third reading be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Wednesday 20 March 2013. The last proposal is for the Riigikogu's plenary session: to put the draft to the final vote of 289 and to adopt it as a law. On 26 February, the Committee on the Environment returned briefly to the procedural decisions of bill 289 and decided to change the Commission's representative during the discussion of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the State Assets Act and to appoint Tõnis Kõiv as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U113	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U114	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, The Chancellor of Justice has also spoken about this draft. This position is rather critical. He said that if the country were to set up some kind of compensation mechanism, it should not be illusionary. With this change, several people who have been in line for a long time, some have been moving backwards since 2004. At worst, Maaosa may be an option in up to ten years' time. Either way, it doesn't seem right. Did you discuss the position of the Chancellor of Justice in the Commission? If so, with what result? If not, why didn't you consider it important?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U115	Thank you. I spoke as a committee waitress about what happened to the draft after the first reading, so I did not mention in my report to the Riigikogu the meeting with the representatives of the Chancellor of Justice, which took place before the first reading. It is important to stress that, in fact, it is not the responsibility of the state to buy out the land in an illusory way, but quite real. It is also important to stress that, in the case of immovable property with a nature conservation restriction, we cannot speak as a de facto expropriation by the State. This can only be the case if it is a reserve of nature, where there really are very few (if any) rights for the owner. In most cases, it is a protection regime for the target protection zone, where the restrictions on immovable property are not so extensive that it can be de facto referred to expropriation and consequently to a swift and immediate obligation to compensate the owner. In addition, it is important to stress that there are also a number of support mechanisms that have also been subject to a longer discussion at first reading. Support shall be paid to owners of immovable property with a natural protection restriction, if they so request. Last but not least, when it comes to the assessment of how long it should take until the list of almost 300 owners is completed, the Commission did say that it would take five years, not ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U116	Please, Mr Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U117	Thank you. The Commission was also talking about how to set up a system in such a way that it would be fair and that people would receive compensation within a reasonable period of time. The problem now is that the state does not plan enough budget resources to realise the buy-out of the land. Can you tell us what the state's contribution to the state budget should be in the coming years, so that we do not talk about ten years or even longer, but that it would take five years or a shorter time to buy out?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U118	Thank you for your question. I do not need to talk to the questioner about the Commission's discussions on both the time of the buy-out and the sums involved in the buy-out, up to who is on that list. We are both members of the Committee on the Environment and we are familiar with this information. But when it comes to budgets and how much money should be in the budget, it is ultimately very clear choices in both the ministry and the government and then here in the Riigikogu Chamber. We can, for example, remember these questions and present them when the 2014 state budget and the national budgets for subsequent years arrive in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U119	Please, colleague Priit onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U120	Good chairman of the sitting! Good waitress! I have a question of the same nature. I have heard that the indicative amount for which the state would have to buy back land under nature conservation could be about 30 million euros. You said it would happen in five years. Then it could be six million euros per year. Do you know how much the Ministry of the Environment has planned in the budget strategy for the next year? The second question is this: do you think this bill will help the country to get the land that is protected more quickly from its owners so that it will eventually belong to the state? Would this process rather shorten or prolong?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U121	Thanks for the questions. First of all, we in the Committee on the Environment did not discuss so specifically how much this could cost by property, because the properties are not all at one price, but at a relatively different price. Therefore, I cannot confirm or reject the amounts set out in the first part of your question. But the second part of the question concerned speed. The explanatory memorandum submitted for the first reading of this draft does not state that the purpose of the draft is speed. The aim is to treat fairly landowners whose property is subject to conservation restrictions, and to make the process of compensation and redemption more transparent, clearer, understandable, so that any opportunity to hesitate on one or the other matter of how it is to be done, whether in one way or in another. In this sense, we fully agree that the clearer and more understandable the process is, the less someone might complain that there seems to be something wrong. No, it's all clear and understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U122	Please, Mr Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U123	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In your opinion, is it justified to take up land on such a scale as has been done in Estonia so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U124	Thank you for your question. Yes, this issue does come into contact with the subject of this draft, but the debate is still going to be much wider. How much and how do we take conservation values into protection? How much do we appreciate the impact on society and on the individual owner of this particular protection? How much do we appreciate whether, after this protection and certain restrictions are imposed, what we want to protect will remain? Until then, if what we have wanted to protect is still not there, how can we, quickly and in the most painful way possible, alleviate these protective restrictions or put an end to them at all? There is certainly a wider debate ahead of us. In the Committee on the Environment, of which we are both members, there have been debates of this kind and certainly there are also waiting for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U125	Please, colleague Priit onion, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U126	Thank you. Another question arises from the previous answer. There is a reference in the explanatory memorandum to the fact that we should give priority to those who have a more intense barricade in compensation. But if, for example, I have acquired the land before 2007, knowing that it is a restricted land, and now a sea eagle is coming to the neighboring land to nest, then my neighbor is in the preferred state, so I understand. His latches, as I can see from this bill, are kind of more intense. But the population of the sea eagle has grown and reached southern Estonia, where there were no sea eagles in my childhood. Do you think it's fair to determine the intensity of the grate? There are many other aspects, too, not only is it important when I acquired this land.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U127	Thank you for your question. It is only fair to determine the intensity of the ribs or the resulting behavior. After all, there is a huge difference between buying land that is clearly restricted or buying land that is profitable, a forest that can be managed and where there are no obstacles, but then suddenly it turns out that an obstacle has arisen. There's a big difference. The next question, again, does not concern a specific draft, but rather one new draft. How are these restrictions imposed on countries, how have the views of both the landowner and, more generally, social pressure groups and other members of society been taken into account, and how can this be done in the most reasonable way possible? But I will say again that it goes beyond the framework of the 289 draft, the framework of the provisions that are regulated here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U128	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U129	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, After all, this whole process of exchanging or compensating land that has been restricted to nature conservation has been a long time and has caused problems. It was only in 2009 that the possibility of offsetting was created; people are still in line. What really is this need for change in substance? Why was the possibility of offsetting created in 2009, just before the possibility of switching was abolished, and now we are also losing the possibility of offsetting? Are you aware of this substance?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U130	Thank you, good questioner! All these are good questions that should have been asked on 23 January when there was first reading. Then you would have received a reply from the author's representative, the Minister for the Environment. The answer can also be obtained by reading the explanatory statement. As stated in the draft explanatory memorandum, a situation began to arise where the possibility of offsetting still arose for those who had the opportunity to participate in land auctions or who had better financial means for some sort of action, which led them to fix the land with their conservation restrictions. But not all people may have these opportunities. If having the opportunity to participate in an auction gives you an advantage in another matter, then that probably can't be very right. This is even less the equal treatment of owners whose land is subject to these conservation restrictions. That's one reason. I read the explanatory memorandum to the bill before reading today and I recommend it to all interested colleagues. Repeating is the mother of wisdom. You'll find out about one and the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U131	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Kõiv. Do colleagues want to negotiate? Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U132	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I read the explanatory statement before reading the first one, in between, and before reading the second one. Those that were difficult to find were the answers. Buying back land with natural conservation restrictions or, to the contrary, readmission has been a source of problems for the country for a long time, for nearly 15 years. Unfortunately, this amendment does not increase legal clarity. We could still go a little further back in time. When we talk about land and the natural environment, it is a little short of a couple of years. Until 2007, the possibility of land exchange was in place; in 2007 the possibility of land exchange decreased; in 2008 the possibility of clearing was abolished; in 2009 a new scheme was created. Now, in 2013, we also intend to abolish netting with Bill 289. The Chancellor of Justice has made a negative assessment of this draft. He has said: 'I think, however, that it is questionable from the point of view of protecting the rights of persons that, in certain situations, the legislator provides for compensation for restrictions on immovable property, but, at the same time, in the context of the proceedings already under way, makes 'game rules' and establishes a procedure for obtaining compensation which makes the exercise of that right, i.e. compensation, more or less illusory. ' I'm afraid that's the case. If we want the order of the person to arrive in five years, we should increase several times the amounts that are earmarked in the state budget to buy out the land. If that is possible, we will see that in the discussions on the next budgets. We cannot now say whether this bill protects landowners, forest owners or nature. In any case, it does not reduce the unfairness of the current regulation, it does not increase legal clarity, it does not speed up unreasonably long processes, nor does it protect the interests of landowners, especially small-scale landowners. At the same time, the subject is very important and certainly deserves to be dealt with; it deserves to be dealt with further. The Social Democratic Party Group therefore proposes to suspend the second reading of draft 289. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U133	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. Two amendments to the draft law have been tabled. The first has been presented by Annely Akkermann, member of the Riigikogu, and the commission has partially taken the proposal into account. The second proposal has been submitted by the Committee on the Environment, the lead committee has taken the proposal fully into account. We have examined the amendments. The Social Democratic Party Group has proposed to suspend the second reading of draft 289. We must vote on this proposal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group 289 to interrupt the second reading. Please vote! 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 46 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Second reading of bill 289 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U134	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act on Accession to the 1996 Protocol to the 1972 Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Waste and Other Substances, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment of the Speaker's Board, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U135	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! At first reading, you have before you the draft Act on Accession to the 1996 Protocol to the 1972 Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Waste and Other Substances. First of all, I say to those members of the Riigikogu who do not come into contact with environmental law every day, that dumping is understood as dumping waste at sea in this bill. Of course, this is one very important source of possible marine pollution. In the 1960's and 1970's, it was quite common for radioactive or toxic waste to be disposed of, not to mention simply waste. Unfortunately, this irresponsible behaviour has not really ended until now. The Convention was once adopted to combat this ugly practice and the associated marine pollution and is one of the first quite vigorous steps in this area. In 1996, the Convention was replaced by the London Protocol, which takes account of changes in the environment and environmental law that occurred in the meantime. This is much stricter than the original Convention, which dates back to 1972. It is precisely this later protocol that we want to join today. The London Protocol prohibits dumping, except in exceptional cases where prior authorisation has been obtained. As regards the Baltic Sea, this specific protocol does not entail any changes for Estonian vessels sailing in the Baltic Sea. We are a member of the Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Region, the Helsinki Convention. The Helsinki Convention is even tougher than the London Protocol and allows only dredging to be covered in the Baltic Sea. This requires an environmental permit and, of course, this authorisation will in any case be considered very carefully. It can be said that the London Protocol will bring the rest of the world closer to the praiseworthy requirements that we are already fulfilling here. I guess you could ask why we're even joining this protocol. Accession to the Protocol means to Estonia that ships flying the flag of Estonia must comply with the prohibition of dumping not only in the Baltic Sea, but all over the world. As a noble maritime state and as a Contracting Party to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, this should certainly be a self-evident rule of conduct for us. By joining us, we are committed to regulating and controlling dumping for our ships anywhere in the world in accordance with international standards. Dear Riigikogu, I would like to ask you to support the draft submitted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U136	Thank you very much, Madam Minister for the Environment. Please ask a question, Mr Eldar Efendiev.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U137	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I want to be more specific. When I prepared the Commission's report, I read in the explanatory memorandum that our move in this direction is more like preventive. But I also read that so far no such environmental permit has been granted in Estonia. How do you assess whether, in practice, these licences may be needed and how they are done? I thought it was a little complicated. The subject is, of course, the Ministry of the Environment, that's understandable, but how is this thing going to develop technologically?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U138	By technological development, do you mean how you should apply for a permit? Indeed, as you have also mentioned, no such authorisation has been requested or issued so far. Where it is foreseen that there will be a need for it, an application must be submitted to the Office. It has been explained quite thoroughly on the technical side of the explanatory memorandum. If further details are needed in relation to any technical nuances, this may be done. But indeed, an application must be submitted to the Agency, it will be examined, it will be considered whether it is a reasoned request and, if it is a reasoned request, the authorisation will be granted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U139	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U140	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I understand from what you have said that there are no problems in the Baltic Sea with the dumping of harmful substances or at all this issue, not only on Estonian ships, but also on other ships that fly there. In terms of expanding your horizons, can you give some examples of the world's greatest problem with dumping into the sea? The water's all connected.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U141	Thank you. In the Baltic Sea, these rules are simply stricter already. The methods of dumping, which are potentially allowed, are really very few and we have not had any problems. In what circumstances could such a need arise, and what are the exceptions? There has also been an incident in the Baltic Sea when the plane fired its fuel into the sea. Such a course is justified if people's lives would otherwise be put at risk. Then, exceptionally, fuel dumping is acceptable. Later, very close monitoring will be carried out as to whether this dumping has resulted in pollution. This incident didn't bring any pollution, so nothing bad happened there. In what cases can dumping be a problem? In fact, ship wrecks have also been drowned in the depths of the sea. This may also result in pollution if precautions are not taken. Fortunately, there have been no recent incidents in our immediate vicinity where it would have resulted in pollution. But this is one example. Examples can be given up to ordinary garbage. The cultural differences between countries are, of course, very great. But the protection of the Baltic Sea is really precisely because the sea itself is very sensitive, still quite well regulated and with quite strict attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U142	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U143	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I read that 70 years ago, after the great war that was in Europe, more than 350,000 tons of weapons were thrown into the Baltic Sea, of which 50,000 tons were chemical weapons. Saltwater and the shallow sea have had an impact. There's already been some initial information on this. Do you have any information about the future of this big, I'd say, sign?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U144	Thank you. It is under international discussion on what to do with the known locations of chemical weapons or the locations where chemical weapons were being dumped after World War II. Scientists are analyzing and modeling a possible reaction that may occur as they begin to remove these weapons. There is currently no decision as to whether it would be appropriate to start removing them. But there's a debate going on. This is a topical issue, and scientists at international level are discussing it quite thoroughly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U145	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask Eldar Efendijev, Member of the Environment Committee of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U146	You can thank me. There could be more thanking in Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U147	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Colleagues! The draft law 373 was held at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment on 18 February. a. The content and purpose of this draft was introduced by Agnes Pilv, chief specialist of the Marine Environment Department of the Ministry of the Environment and accompanied by Kaspar Anderson. I am not going to talk about this review, because the Minister was actually talking about what happened in the Commission. The debate was not long, two specific questions were put forward. The first question concerned whether accession to the Protocol would create additional obligations for the State. The answer was that, for example, in a situation where an Estonian ship is on the high seas or off the coast of a country which is not a party to this protocol and cannot be granted permission to be dumped, this ship must ask permission from the Ministry of the Environment. I wanted to clarify from the Minister how this is technically done. The subject of this protocol by Estonia is the Ministry of the Environment, which at international level regulates all these problems and issues together with the committees provided for in the Protocol. The second question was intended to be clarified. If there are force majesties, is this area described in the laws in force in this sense, and is there a need for clarification or not? The representative of the Ministry replied that the Water Act, which provides for dumping and cremation under special circumstances, had been supplemented by the accession to the Protocol. The force majesty's right to save lives has so far existed in the Law of the Sea. In this situation, consideration must be given to the circumstances and measures taken to reduce the risk of damage to human life, health and the environment. But this is a special case of dumping. In fact, many of our laws already provide for this. Estonia's practice, as the Minister said, is linked to the implementation of the Helsinki Convention, which is much stricter in many parts than the protocol we are joining today. The Commission proposed to appoint me (consensually) here as the rapporteur for the draft 373, to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft 373 be first read on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 13 March, this is what is on our agenda today, to propose to the Riigikogu plenary to finish the first reading (consensually) and to propose to the Riigikogu that the draft 373 amendments be submitted by the deadline of 27 March. 4 p.m. (consensually). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U149	I'd like to thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U150	The debate was not long because the explanatory memorandum was very thoroughly prepared. Thank you very much to the Ministry of the Environment for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U151	Thank you. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 373 amendments. a on 27 March 2006 at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fifth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U152	We are going to the sixth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Victim Assistance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the amendment of other laws. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U153	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Traditionally, this draft is also a very good draft. The aim of the draft is to transpose into Estonian law a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting victims of trafficking in human beings. The same draft also partially transposes the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. The European Union, including Estonia, attaches great importance to preventing and preventing trafficking in human beings and protecting victims. The Directive on trafficking in human beings establishes safeguards for all victims of trafficking in human beings. It is important that victims of trafficking in human beings be able to exercise their rights effectively. The Directive therefore requires assistance and support to be provided to victims of trafficking in human beings both before and during criminal proceedings, as well as for an appropriate period of time thereafter. The assistance and support provided to victims of trafficking in human beings should, under the Directive, include at least the minimum amount of measures necessary to enable the victim to recover and escape traffickers. According to the Directive, assistance and support should be provided to victims of trafficking in human beings as soon as there are reasonable grounds to believe that a person may be a victim of trafficking in human beings, regardless of whether he or she wishes to cooperate in criminal investigations, prosecutions or legal proceedings. Member States must also ensure that victims of human trafficking have access to existing compensation schemes for victims of intentional violent crime. Consequently, it is necessary in its national law to designate the competent authorities which decide on the inclusion of a person in the scope of the Directive and are also obliged to inform the person concerned of the possibilities offered under the Directive. I will now stop at the changes that are intended to be introduced into Estonia's legal order. In total, six laws need to be amended to transpose the Directive: the Victim Assistance Act, the State Legal Aid Act, the Social Welfare Act, the Act on the Grant of International Protection to Aliens, the Aliens Act and the Obligation to Leave and the Prohibition of Entry Act. Broadly speaking, changes can be divided into three. Firstly, changes concerning the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Victim Assistance Act sets out a list of services intended for victims of trafficking in human beings and dismantles the regulation relating to the provision of these services. The victim of trafficking in human beings is the person who has been the subject of criminal proceedings under some provisions of the Penal Code on trafficking in human beings. At the same time, services for victims of trafficking in human beings are also available to those who are suspected of having been the subject of the abovementioned crime, but the opening of criminal proceedings has not yet been decided. This means that a crime report has been submitted to the investigating authority. The services intended for the victim include, for example, counselling, safe accommodation, catering, access to health services, material and psychological assistance, the provision of translation services and other services necessary for the physical and psychosocial recovery of the victim. The Social Welfare Act specifies the procedure for receiving care in the family and substitute home services and the number of persons entitled to receive this service. The draft defines how the service can be provided by a child separated from the parents and without parental care, by the parties responsible for its organisation and by supervision and by the requirements to be met by the service providers. For an unaccompanied minor, the services are provided on a centralised basis, regardless of whether the person is a victim of human trafficking, an applicant for asylum or an illegally staying alien. Secondly, the Ministry of Justice has prepared an amendment to the State Legal Aid Act, which also guarantees state legal aid to victims of foreign trafficking. According to the current Act, state legal aid is granted to a natural person residing in the Republic of Estonia or in another Member State of the European Union at the time of the application for legal aid or who is a citizen of the Republic of Estonia or of another Member State of the European Union. Legal aid shall be granted to any other natural person only if it is the result of a foreign contract. Thus, under the current law, it would not be possible to provide legal aid to a victim of trafficking in human beings who is domiciled outside the European Union. Thirdly, in the area of administration of the Ministry of the Interior, the regulation concerning foreigners is being amended. The rules applicable to the period of reflection given by the prosecutor's office to the victim of trafficking in human beings and to unaccompanied minors (involvement of a representative in procedural procedures, provision of services, prescription of a minor, etc.) will be specified. That concludes my introduction to the bill. We certainly support the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs to conclude the first reading and finally adopt the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U154	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? It is. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U155	Thank you. Good minister! Can you tell us how much money is needed a year from the state budget when we adopt this directive and how much money was spent last year or last night to resolve these issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U156	Thank you. I wouldn't be happy to read all the tables in terms of saving time. I suggest you look at page 23 of the explanatory memorandum and beyond. There are long tables on what the future effects will be, and similarly, the budget of which is included (Social Insurance Institution, Ministry of Social Affairs, etc.). Most of these expenditures have already been budgeted. There will be no significant leap in the state's cost of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U157	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U158	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister, thank you very much. In the previous answer, my question was also answered, but I am still asking how many cases in Estonia are affected by this bill or the people whose lives will be regulated in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U159	Thank you. We are still dealing with the victims of human trafficking. In this sense, there is no question. When you listened to my presentation, you know that in certain respects, for example, state legal aid issues have been expanded very clearly, and foreigners from third countries have been introduced, in addition to Estonian and European Union citizens. For example, if for some reason a Russian citizen who is a victim of human trafficking enters Estonia, he too has the right to state legal aid. The number of people receiving services may increase. Fortunately, however, we can admit that the number of victims of human trafficking has not increased significantly. The main thing in terms of the state budget is, of course, expenditure. These costs together remain within reasonable limits. But the total number of victims of trafficking in human beings can not only be obtained from the website of the Ministry of Justice, which contains criminal statistics. Under the crime barometer, there are statistics on crimes, including trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U160	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Mr Kalle Jents, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U161	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft on 25 February. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur, his advisor Madis Timpson, and the Adviser to the Criminal Law and Procedure Department, Marju Agaruma, as well as specialists from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Ele Russak, Adviser to the Department of Migration and Border Guard Policy, Ministry of the Interior. The Committee on Legal Affairs was pleased to discuss this draft, because, as the Minister mentioned, in addition to the transposition of the directive, it is undoubtedly a logical follow-up to the draft that we discussed last year when we introduced new paragraphs in criminal law in relation to the issue of trafficking in human beings. This bill will put in place all the measures that victims need. The Commission unanimously supported this draft. We had the same questions that sounded in this Chamber today. With regard to the money, we received the answer that it has indeed been explained quite thoroughly in the explanatory memorandum. We also raised the question that in some cases, however, municipalities are going to perform some functions. In addition, the Minister replied that these costs were intended to be covered by the state budget, in which case the municipalities would be reimbursed. I can also say to the Urve Wing that 32 crimes involving human trafficking were registered last year. What was the number of victims in each of the crime episodes, I don't know, but at least that's the total number. There's another interesting fact. When we discussed the paragraphs of human trafficking, we discussed very thoroughly how to define the concept of vulnerability. This is defined in the draft. According to this draft, the protection of vulnerable persons means that the specific needs of minors, pregnant women, people with disabilities, the elderly and those who are victims of serious violence must be taken into account. If you have time and will, you can read more about it in the draft. The Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 13 March, today, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 16 a.m. on 19 March. As I said, all decisions were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-13_U162	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 379 amendments. March 19th at 4 p.m. The first reading of the draft act and the sixth item on the agenda are closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 3.26 p.m.
