ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U1	Good afternoon, good fellows, honourable Riigikogu. Prime Minister and good members of the government. Let's start our briefing on January 30th. First, we'll run a presence check. Thirty-eight delegates registered as present, 63 missing. Today's Question Time will be attended by Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, and Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice. Dear colleagues, I have a request for you. As seven questions have been registered for Question Time, I will allow up to two on-the-spot questions on all issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U2	We will go to the first question put by a member of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kallo, to which Prime Minister Andrus Ansip will answer. The issue is the fine imposed by the incomplete transposition of directives.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U3	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In the past year, we almost got used to the fact that the Minister for Economic Affairs has not yet completed one more mess when the other comes up. Now the New Year begins almost in the same spirit. Already on 24 January, we learned through Äripäev that we are at risk of getting a fine because we have not completely transposed the electricity and gas part of the European Union's Internal Market Directive. There is no judgment yet, but the amounts proposed are EUR 5068 and EUR 4224, or more than EUR 9000 in total. Can you comment on what we have failed to transpose the Gas and Electricity Directives?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U4	Thank you. I can't tell you the truth yet, because an official application will be filed within two months. We will find out within two months what the specific complaints are about Estonia's transposition of this directive. One can only assume (though I would not like to assume) that one place where the takeover has not been complete concerns gas storage facilities which are not known to exist in Estonia. If we have not considered it necessary to regulate activities in a country that are not taking place here, this could be seen as incomplete transposition of the directive. But a specific complaint to the Estonian state may not be what I mentioned here. More generally, Estonia's transposition of directives is one of the most advanced countries in Europe. The transposition of directives has constantly improved in Estonia. We failed to transpose, in whole or in part, the three directives last year. This is the fourth best result in the European Union after those countries that failed to transpose the two directives. So the transposition of directives in Estonia has been improving year after year. We have been working on this in the government. One of the decisions that has helped to improve the transposition of European Union directives concerns the processing of directives in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U5	Prime Minister, your time is up! Kalev Kallo, please give me the first point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U6	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! A somewhat incomprehensible answer, as we also have a press release from the European Commission here, which reads: 'A reasoned opinion was sent to Estonia regarding the Gas Directive in February 2012 and the Electricity Directive in April of that year. " The press release says that we have been sent an opinion on what the problem is. All the more reason why we don't know what we're not taking over. Could you elaborate on your answer as a result of this press release?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U7	Thank you. I don't usually talk about a particular case, because I don't feel it so thoroughly. If the European Commission delivers a reasoned opinion, a very reasoned reply will normally be returned. It is then up to the recipient whether or not the answer satisfies him completely and decides to go to the courts. I do not consider Estonia to be likely to be threatened by real fines. I mean, the threat is likely, but I think it's very unlikely that we can get to the fines, because it'll take at least a year to get to court. During this period, the State will certainly be able to fully transpose the directive. And once a country has transposed the European Union Directive, no fine sanctions have so far been followed as a rule.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U8	I would like to ask you another more specific question from Kalev Kallo.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U9	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I spoke with a high-ranking state official who is not an employee of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. He expressed the view that the Directive was likely to have not been transposed in terms of both gas and electricity in terms of consumer protection. Could that be likely?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U10	It may be, but it may not be. We are not being criticised for not fully transposing the directive. Apparently, there are some parts that the Commission does not think have been properly taken over in Estonia. Even when it comes to litigation, we cannot assume that the European Commission is certainly right and the Republic of Estonia is wrong. I don't tend to take premature opinions in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U11	Now, one issue registered on the spot. Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U12	Thank you. I understood the logic of your speech so that we do not know exactly where these directives have not been fully transposed at the moment. But we'll find out when this lawsuit finally gets to us and it gets to court. At the same time, you said that if this thing goes to court, it does not in itself mean that the European Commission is right and the Estonian state is wrong. And in your previous reply, you mentioned that then we will have the opportunity to bring our laws into line with these directives for at least a year. How will Estonia behave when we find out exactly what is being accused of? Are we going to bring our laws into line with the directives in those parts where the European Commission claims that they are not in line, or are we going to continue to argue or do so in court?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U13	A correct answer to your question can be given when we know the specific content of the complaints. This is clear from the application, which we do not yet have at our disposal. As a reminder, we have been to court with the European Commission and have even won the right case (at least two) in several cases. It is not necessary to take a firm, capitulant or aggressive attitude until you know what the specific reproach is. Let us first look at the specific complaints and then shape our position.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U14	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U15	Let us move on to the second question. It has been submitted by Riigikogu member Jaak Allik and is answered by Mr Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice. The subject is the development of the Cohabitation Act. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U16	Minister of Justice! On 27 August last year, the Ministry of Justice presented the concept of the Cohabitation Act to political parties and NGOs for a position and waited for answers by 1 October. It's been four months now. Could you inform Parliament on the outcome of the analysis of the answers by the Ministry of Justice and on how it is planned to proceed with the Cohabitation Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U17	Thank you for your question. We have taken family law seriously in drawing up this year's work plan. In this regard, we have tried to describe in the ministry the three thematic areas that we have to deal with and, according to priority, we have tried to group them in chronological order. The first priority is certainly for us the problems that have arisen in the practice of the law that has been in force for nearly three years and the solutions to them. Consequently, we have set the deadline of 1 June 2013 for the completion of this draft. Some additional analyses are currently underway. By the end of April, we will try to finish the internship analyses and then write a draft so that we can send it to the coordination circle, as I said, on 1 June 2013. I hope that we will come to Parliament no later than during the autumn session with the problems raised in practice after the round of coordination. The second group of questions that we have planned for this time when we have completed this draft concern the problems of non-marital cohabitation arising from the rights of the child. We can begin to deal with this regulation after we have solved the problems raised in practice. And when the first two stages have been completed, in the third stage we have also planned to discuss all other forms of cohabitation, including on the basis of what does not concern children and children's rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U18	Jaak Allik, first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U19	Thank you, Minister. As far as I know, the Ministry of Justice has informed the State Chancellery in its memo of 24 January that several parliamentary parties are opposed to the regulation on the registration of cohabitation of same-sex couples. Could you please specify which parties the Ministry had in mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U20	Thank you. We have indeed tried before to consult parliamentary parties on various issues. They themselves have expressed their views. As far as we know, the Fatherland and Res Publica Association have, however, made their position very clear as regards the cohabitation of same-sex persons. So in that sense, the situation here has not changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U21	Please specify another question from Jaak All!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U22	Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, is of the opinion that a permanent partnership between same-sex persons falls within the scope of the fundamental rights of the family, which is therefore incompatible with the Constitution in a situation where such a partnership is legally unregulated. As the new Minister of Justice, do you share this position of Chancellor of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U23	Thank you for your question. I would, however, separate the same three issues in the area of family law: firstly, implementation problems; secondly, problems arising from the rights of the child and the protection of interests; and thirdly, all matters relating to partnership. In the case of a life together, I would make the same clear distinction as in the current family law. And in § 1 of the current Family Act, the concept of marriage is very clearly defined by the marriage being concluded between a man and a woman. The protection of all other rights of persons in their cohabitation is, according to our work plan and taking into account the resources, left to the third stage. Then we can also provide answers to questions about what form and how the rights of individuals are protected when they live together.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U24	Now, one issue registered on the spot. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U25	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Since you mentioned that, first of all, the correction is being made for the mistakes that have emerged in practice in the family law that has been in force for three years now, I have a specific question. Does your ministry also consider it a problem that parents now need very large-scale court agreement to make transactions? Take, for example, the placement of patronage money. I even brought the material, and I quote: 'The agreement of the court is not necessary for the placement of patronage money [... ] in debt securities issued by a Member State of the European Union [... ]'. This is an example of the fact that the law that was made three years ago has, in my opinion, become a little inappropriate in time and space. Do you share this view?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U26	Thank you. I share the view that the limits of custody and representation of the rights of the child need to be transcended. This concerns not only child representation issues but also guardianship in a bit wider, for example, special care institutions. For example, a judge at the Viru County Court in Rakvere has written a letter to us and the Ministry of Social Affairs regarding the guardianship of persons in special care. This will certainly result in parental custody issues and representation of the child's interests. These issues need to be re-examined, as well as the issue of custody. And these are some of the most important issues that are in focus in the draft drawn up before 1 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U27	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U28	Let's move on to question three. It has been submitted by Riigikogu member Mailis Reps and is answered by Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science. The subject is educational innovation. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U29	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. Certainly, one of the biggest debates in recent months has been one of several educational lists, as well as a new basic school and upper secondary school law at meetings, which has made quite a few perhaps even unexpected proposals. In short, it could be said that yesterday, during a very long and in-depth debate in the Committee on Culture, a clear drawing was made out of resentment for the ambiguity of teachers' future. In fact, the draft does not show that teachers' pay will be insured in the future, nor is it certain that the teacher will not actually be sent to the class for 35 hours. They also pointed out the class manager's fee problem. Hence the question: how do you comment on the ambiguity of the situation of teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U30	Thank you, good questioner! I do not really know any law in the Republic of Estonia that pays salaries to different groups of employees or determines their level of pay. It is still born with the annual draft state budget and is planned for teachers. This year, the pay of municipal school teachers will rise by 11.4%. And if we succeed in adopting the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act here before Midsummer Day and they enter into force on 1 January next year, I am sure that the teachers' salary will continue to rise, with this increase being higher than the average in the Estonian country. If this bill is not to go so well, then there will certainly be greater problems in ensuring the sustainability of wage increases. Uncertainty about teachers' salaries. I don't think it could be bigger than other state-paid officials. Moreover, there is political will and also administrative readiness to continue with the rise in teachers' salaries. It's a question of a class-leading bonus. Class management should be seen as a normal component of the teacher's professional activities. Not all teachers are class managers, but most of them are, and I think that such school and teacher work arrangements are reasonable. I therefore see that such a continuous obligation should be included in the staff and also in the salary. Of course, the salary should be higher. This is the kind of plan we have made to organise the teacher's profession.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U31	The first question to be specified from Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Surely I am hopeful that you will be able to be optimistic. But unfortunately, there are dozens or dozens of municipalities and schools that have sent letters of great concern in the last two months. I'm sure you know the teachers who actually lost their pay this year. And the reason for this is very simple education money allocated to these municipalities was considerably lower. Recently, I was in one of the primary schools whose location in the municipality fell by EUR 20,000 in education funding. This means to the small municipality that these teachers can only dream of a real wage increase. The most painful issue, which is certainly very familiar to you, is that teachers' alleged wage increases in the future come at the expense of support specialists. Is there any way you can give us hope that this will not actually happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U33	I'll start with a pay drop first. I do not see any possibility of unilaterally reducing teachers' salaries. Salary is a bilateral agreement on the contract of employment and the employer cannot unilaterally reduce salary. With regard to the funding of local authorities, according to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, basic schools receive support for the pay of teachers on the basis of the number of pupils. And if the number of students decreases by 30% in some places, but also by 40%, the task of the local government's school organisation is to restructure its school network and, in this context, to ensure that all teachers receive the statutory wage levels. National support will certainly make this possible. In this respect, this year is certainly no exception when compared to 2012 or 2011. So I believe that these reproaches on this wage increase, which has been allocated an additional EUR 7.5 million, are inappropriate. And in each case, it can be analysed why public support is lower this year than in the previous year. But on average, as has already been said, it is 11.4% higher, despite the fact that the number of students is lower than last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U34	Another clarification from Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U35	Thank you. Since the answer to this question has run out of time, I will also give you the opportunity to answer the question of the support specialists. Especially in the light of the fact that, as a minister, you are certainly familiar with the very painful words spoken by Mrs Kangro through the media, which have led some other specialists to think about this subject. You underlined the responsibility of the local government to restructure. It is a very interesting approach that we close schools and it is called restructuring. So far, there was talk of efficiency. My question is, from where does the responsibility of the state come into play? If the municipality has structured everything, will the state guarantee dormitories, student grants or student transport if children have to go to school very far from home?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U36	Thank you. First of all, support specialists. I sincerely regret that teachers and support specialists will continue to be opposed. The maintenance of schools is the responsibility of the school manager and the legislator has wanted the state to support the disbursement of the salaries of teachers and school leaders. According to the law, the Ministry of Education and Research has done so. I think that it is neither reasonable nor advisable to contrast support professionals with teachers and pay them salaries from teachers' salaries. If the Riigikogu considers it necessary in the course of the procedure of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act to assume additional obligations on the state and to provide additional resources for this purpose, then I, as Minister of Education and Research, certainly have no objection to this. As regards the arguments raised regarding the change in the situation of support specialists regarding amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in the Riigikogu, I say that they are inappropriate. The amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in the form they have reached the Riigikogu do not change anything in the teaching of children with special educational needs or in the financing of support specialists. As has already been said, during the procedure of the Riigikogu, it is possible to introduce the corresponding amendments to the draft, by finding additional resources, if necessary by distributing public funds between the local government and the state. Such a solution is certainly conceivable, perhaps practical.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U37	Now two issues registered on the spot. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U38	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. As the previous speaker has already said, there is no funding available for rural school teachers with this funding scheme. I am asking you, Minister, what is the solution? Is the solution being that rural schools are being shut down or that additional resources are being found for these country school teachers somewhere? What's your point of view, should we close the schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U39	The future of schools that do not have enough pupils must probably be reviewed, but this does not mean that it can be done in decision-making in the Riigikogu or the Ministry of Education and Research. This decision must be made on the ground when considering the specific situation. As regards the problems faced by some local authorities in terms of the drop in the number of pupils, one of the sources of these problems is regrettablely also the current model of the distribution of education support, which has fluctuated too much year after year and has caused legitimate resentment in some local authorities. I have said that this financing model must be reviewed. There is certainly a different financing model for the new year, which concerns the distribution of money to local authorities. And I believe that these schools, which, for my sake, are appropriate for even two pupils, should also receive reasonable funding according to this model. So I think that these problems that you have referred to are a few examples where finding solutions is perfectly feasible if the financing model is reviewed. As far as your complaint is concerned, as if there has been some disproportionate treatment of rural schools, this claim is not true. There are local authorities whose funding from the state budget has increased by more than 30%. And, as has already been said, teachers' salaries have also increased by over 11.4% on average in rural schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U40	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U41	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In part, I have already received an answer to my question when you answered my colleague, Ms Reps, but I would nevertheless like to ask you more. Tomorrow, as a matter of national importance, the issue of the inclusion of people with special needs in the labour market will be discussed in this Chamber, which is undoubtedly very much related to education. If the necessary and supportive education, supported by support specialists where appropriate, is not received in time, there is no hope of getting a job later. However, the state will have much higher maintenance obligations and maintenance obligations, while people will have lower incomes. I understand from your previous response that you consider this principle to be correct and that you support it, so that municipalities can have additional resources so that they can then be allocated to support specialists on an ad hoc basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U42	As has already been said, the Riigikogu is in the hands of the Riigikogu in the process of processing the basic school and upper secondary school law. If it is considered necessary to take the responsibility for financing support specialists away from local governments and to hand it over to the State in the case of municipal schools, it is conceivable. I am not convinced that this is the best solution, but it is certainly conceivable. But it certainly doesn't make sense to take that money away from any other group of workers. This money must be found further and, if such resources are available, it is certainly worth considering such a decision. With regard to the education of pupils with special educational needs, it is regrettable that there is a little more noise in this area than there could be. There are currently some 140000 students in general education schools in Estonia, of which 24000 are children with special educational needs. Most of them have studied and continue their studies in mainstream schools and classes. In addition, so far there have been and will continue to be classes of children with special educational needs, which study on the basis of a simplified curriculum or other national curriculum. There will continue to be schools for children with special educational needs, both municipal schools and schools under the authority of the state. To this end, a concept of training for children with special educational needs has been developed and available on the website of the Ministry of Education and Research, which is not finalised, but on which everyone has the opportunity to express their views. The idea that children with special educational needs have been subject to some kind of fundamental decisions that make their situation worse...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U43	Minister, your time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U44	... does not correspond to reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U45	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U46	Let us move on to the next question, which is the fourth in line. It has been submitted by Riigikogu member Kalvi Tõvi and is answered by a member of the government, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science. The topic is the future of Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I think that both of us who have been elected to this hall in the last elections to the Riigikogu from South-East Estonia know that Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre is, to a very large extent, the engine for the development of Võrumaa entrepreneurship. This is shown by the fact that an incubation centre has been made near Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre and a competence centre is also being established. Very many innovative Võrumaa companies cooperate with Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre to a lesser or greater extent. Some time ago, though, people in Võrumaa were informed as a cold shower that they were planning to stop teaching in Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre according to the curriculum of applied higher education. This decision has already reached this hall as a bill for today. My question is what the Ministry relied on in making such a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U48	Thank you, good questioner! The decision is a matter of principle. We need to make it clear to ourselves whether we need to provide higher education in vocational education institutions and other non-universities. I believe it is useful to create clarity on this issue, which will help to make Estonia's education system as a whole more transparent and reliable, both internationally and nationally. However, it should be noted that vocational higher education at Võru Vocational Education Centre has received quite substantive and serious criticism in the evaluation. Not that Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre is a bad vocational education institution; rather, Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre is one of the strongest vocational education institutions in Estonia. Its reputation is high in the eyes of both students and employers. However, the education offered there under the label of professional higher education corresponds to the so-called short-cycle, or fifth-level, learning in international comparison. Up to now, the fifth qualification level has not been offered in Estonia, as the VET Act did not provide for this level of education. The VET Act recreates the fifth level of education, which is not called higher education, which is essentially offered at Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre and which meets the needs of the labour market. But it has to be called the right name, and it's tech training.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U49	A more specific question about the Kalvi Hard. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Yes, this bill is already on our tables. I hope to my colleagues in the Committee on Culture that they will look seriously at § 59, which gives the Vocational Education Centre in Võrumaa a new status, and I hope that there will also be changes. Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre is also very important in regional policy. After all, we know the idea of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association to take state institutions outside Tallinn. Thus, Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre has undoubtedly a very important regional political dimension. My question is as follows. If this law really comes into force as the Ministry has brought it before us, i.e. no more professional higher education in this institution, is there a risk that some places of study and teachers' positions will disappear in Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U51	As has already been said, Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre is a strong vocational training institution. They are satisfied with the education provided there, and we are satisfied with that at the Ministry of Education and Research. As far as Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre is concerned, it should increase rather than decrease. And as regards its funding and its share in Estonian vocational education as a whole, this relationship should also improve. Our goal is to name things with the right names and to strengthen this centre. As a regional centre, this institution is necessary, but it does not make sense to keep it under a label that does not correspond to reality, no matter how much it would be for some groups to be interested in acquiring higher education there. Higher education has rather clear quality criteria. In this case, as has already been said, this is a good, strong tech education that must continue to be provided. But creating a higher education institution in Võru or Väimela would basically be a second category decision. Since we currently have 1.3 million inhabitants and 30 higher education institutions in Estonia, I am not convinced that we need to build 31st higher education in Võrumaa. Rather, we continue to anticipate a decline in the number of existing higher education institutions in Estonia, not revolutionaryly, but step by step, in line with the steps taken to clean up the educational landscape.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U52	And now two questions registered on the spot. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U53	Thank you, Minister. In fact, when we hear all this, it is very sad that Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre no longer provides professional higher education. Many young people have received very high quality education and very many of them have also received very good jobs. It is as if it confirms that Vocational Education Centre Võrumaa has given and provides high quality education. My question is as follows. What will happen to the education of young people who still want to pursue higher education in technological disciplines?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U54	Higher education can be obtained at higher education institutions and universities. This is the case in other countries, and it could also be the case in Estonia. As has already been said, we do not need to issue higher education diplomas at an educational institution that is not intended for this purpose. As regards the qualification that Vocational Education Centre of Võrumaa has so far given, as has already been said, no changes have been proposed in this respect. Just this education that it offers corresponds, by looking at both the labour market and academic standards, to the fifth level of professional qualifications called short-cycle learning or post-secondary vocational training. I am quite convinced that Vocational Education Centre in Võrumaa will continue to do a good job in this regard. It doesn't change anything for employers or students. However, Estonia has quite a wide range of opportunities to complete higher education. In addition, much more should be used than has been the case so far to acquire narrower specializations outside of Estonia, in Europe, why not even further away. Higher education is an international undertaking. And I believe that we would be stuck on the road to congestion if we imagine that higher education must be possible in every county of Estonia, not to mention every municipality of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U55	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I have the opportunity to ask you the same thing today when we are dealing with the draft legislation for a vocational training institution, but I am still asking you now. In the case of Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre and its fifth degree, the so-called non-higher education level, but a little higher than the level of vocational education, the real question is that no one in Estonia knows what technic education is anymore. A parent is proud to look at a child who is studying some kind of higher education somewhere, after all, he or she is at least on the way to higher education. But the very good education that a child receives from this education, once called university of applied sciences education, does not have a particularly good reputation. As you know very well, the same question is actually up in Kuressaare. There, a vocational school and a college have long been providing education under the name of a college, but they live largely thanks to an organized vocational education centre. Similar wishes exist in many other vocational schools, with college or university. Why can't we still call this university of applied sciences higher education?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U57	We have all seen so-called educational inflation here in Estonia. We have gradually come to understand the benefits and disadvantages of the so-called kitten schools. And I think that we could have become smart enough, both as legislators and as a nation, not to give in too lightly to any wish to decorate ourselves with foreign feathers. I believe that graduates of all vocational schools would be happy if they were awarded a higher education diploma at graduation, perhaps a doctorate, but it would be worth thinking about what our labour market really is. What are the real expectations of employers? What are the actual jobs like? When we make more fundamental decisions, we create a situation that we have been able to read quite good descriptions of in recent daily newspapers. Higher education received quite easily has led young people to expect and hope that they will also receive a corresponding job and at least EUR 4 000 per month. However, it would be wiser to climb up the ladder with reasonable steps to distribute diplomas that have material coverage, both academically and professionally, rather than to create expectations for young people that do not have real coverage for the sole reason that we have not had the principle of deciding what is a good vocational education and what is a good higher education.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U58	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U59	Let us move on to the next question, which is the fifth in line. It has been submitted by Priit Toobal, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The subject is the county elders. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In June last year, the Estonian Centre Party Group presented a proposal to abolish the position of rural governor and to restructure the work of rural governments. Such a proposal has since come up with the former Minister of Justice, Michal, who had foreseen something similar in his country reform plan. As proposers, we believe that the county elders and county governments will no longer perform the functions that they were called upon to perform at the time they were created. And in our opinion, the work of the rural governments could be done by the majority of the local governments. What is your position as to whether the county elders are now performing the functions for which their position has been put into practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U61	Landlords perform the functions that the legislator has assigned them. It is true that the mayor once had many more functions that he had to perform. Over time, they have become fewer and fewer. Rural governments, for example, have been deprived of the task of managing public schools. In my opinion, the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps, who was part of the Centre Party, also dealt with this issue. The administration of state-owned social welfare institutions has been withdrawn from rural parents. In my opinion, Jaak Aab, the Minister of Social Affairs of the Centre Party, was quite active in this matter. Landlords have also been deprived of the administration of state-owned museums, which have gone under the administration of the Ministry of Culture. There are a number of other functions that have been taken away from rural governments. At the same time, it has to be said that the number of people working in rural governments has now been nearly half the number of people working in rural governments compared to the ten-year-old period. According to my memory, the number of people employed by county government in 2011 was 45% lower than in 2001. There is only one rural government where the decline has been significantly lower and where in 2010 the number of employees even increased , it is the Viljandi County government of the Viljandi County government of the county government of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the But the reason for this is also known to everyone. The accounting and staffing of all rural governments was concentrated in Viljandi County Government, which is why the number of employees increased there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U62	The first question to be specified from Priit Toobal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I am pleased that you acknowledge the work of the former ministers of the Centre Party. I, too, believe that this is the right thing to do if the county governments still failed to carry out these tasks, then they had to be taken away from them and given to the ministries to do it. When we had a debate in the Commission on the issue of the abolition and reorganisation of the country's position, the representative of the Minister for Regional Affairs said that, at present, rural elders and rural governments have 600 functions that they are fulfilling. That's a pretty big number. But when we asked, to what extent the performance of these 600 functions is covered by money, the ministry representative owed an answer to that question. Do you think the county governments have enough resources to deal with the 600 missions they have to carry out in their county?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U64	Thank you. I believe you have at least 6,000 functions to perform when the mayor has 600. Seriously, the mayor has certain functions that no one but him performs. For example, county planning and monitoring, as well as thematic planning, remains the responsibility of rural governments. County and county authorities also supervise individual acts of local government. This is again a function that needs to be fulfilled. It is already a matter of taste whether it is the mayor who is doing this or whether it is really possible to resolve this issue at a ministerial level. It has now been found that the current division of functions is optimal, and in areas where it was no longer optimal, the functions have been taken away from the county government. The completion of the ownership reform is currently largely the responsibility of the county government. I admit that the issue of the sale of land with a post-paid payment is obviously a necessary change; these tasks have been reduced at the level of the county government. As has been the case so far, changes have been made at the level of rural governments, administrative areas have changed, should continue to exist in the future. Whether the mayor who now works as a rural elder is still comparable to the one who once worked in that position is already in the eyes of the beauty assessor. Undoubtedly, in his day, the governor of the country and the government of the country had considerably more functions than they do today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U65	Now the questions registered on the spot. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U66	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! Is it true that Hiiumaa's governor is unpoliticated because the coalition was unable to agree which party should be the governor? Namely, seven rural elders now belong to the IRL, seven Reform Party, but the 15th may not have been divided in any way. I'm asking you, how do you think a politician mayor can play a balanced role in the county?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U67	Thank you. We can also recall central party country elders from history. We can remember those who have not belonged to any political party when they were county elders, or have joined any political party even after they have no longer been county elders. Some of the county elders have taken up public work since the rural elder's release. I recall, for example, one of the mayors who is currently working at the Ministry of Education and Research. But there is another governor who has not joined any political party that did not belong to any political party before, but who went to prison after he was freed from the estate. I do not want to conclude that non-party country leaders are more likely to be imprisoned than country leaders who belong to political parties. But if you look at the dry statistics, that's the conclusion. I think that party membership should not be an obstacle to anyone's pursuit of a state office.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U68	The second question to be clarified from Priit Toobal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I, too, believe that party membership must not become an obstacle to anyone's taking up state office or any other office. But I'm asking if you think it's just a coincidence that seven country elders belong to the IRL and seven reform parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U70	I believe that none of these country elders have thrown heads and tails into what kind of party that they all have an established world view. Before they asked about Hiiumaa's governor. I don't know him very much personally, but I've seen him perform many times, read his articles, and I can tell you that I think he's a part of the Reform Party. And it is no coincidence that many people have chosen the Reform Party and believe that the Reform Party is the party that best bears their talents.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U71	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U72	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! You were talking about the functions that have really been taken away from the country elders, but this list may be extended. See what took place at the beginning of this year, the family doctor centers went under the Ministry of Social Affairs, public transport, etc. But my question is that you used the word 'optimal'. Is there anything else we're planning to take from the county governments or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U73	There are no far-reaching plans to further reduce the functions of rural governments, but it cannot be ruled out that certain functions may continue to go directly to the administration of ministries or other public authorities. The organisation of family doctors you referred to was also not a reform because of the reform, which was due to practical needs. Within one county, it is simply not possible to find family doctors, to organise family medicine. I fully agree with the good questioner who said that the Ministers of the Centre Party did the right thing in their time when they centralized certain functions of rural governments to different ministries. Yes, the state's functioning improved considerably, and I see nothing negative about the fact that the functions of rural governments have been significantly reduced by now. There are, of course, many problems in the public transport arrangements that you have referred to. Public transport within a single county is not a problem to be solved. It's solvable if you grab several counties. There is no reason to hope that rural governments will always reach an optimal agreement among themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U74	Good fellows! At the beginning of Question Time, I said that up to two on-the-spot questions are allowed on each issue. I'm sorry because so many questions have been registered, but I'm keeping that promise! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U75	Let us move on to the next question, which is the sixth in line. It has been submitted by Tarmo Tamm, a member of the Riigikogu, and Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, responds to this. The subject is the creation of state secondary schools. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U76	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Recently, the Ministry has started to set up state secondary schools in counties. I ask, Mr Minister, which development plan, study or law is it preferable to do so. And why are state secondary schools better than upper secondary schools owned by local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U77	Thank you. Answering this question would probably require a little more introduction. It is actually based on the understanding that basic education and secondary education differ functionally. In most countries, this is why different institutions are set up to provide such education. Thus, different collections over the last 15 years have repeatedly considered it appropriate to separate comprehensive school and upper secondary school. It is quite understandable that maintaining comprehensive schools is and could continue to be the task of local government. Maintaining upper secondary schools in situations where we have more than 200 municipalities is probably not reasonable in all municipalities. Rather, it makes sense in a smaller number of municipalities. This raises the question of how to organise upper secondary school education when the municipality does not have an upper secondary school or an institution with an equivalent degree. It could also be born in cooperation with local governments. However, life shows that such cooperation does not work in a self - flowing way. This is why we are now in a situation where we can see that high-quality upper secondary school education is concentrated quite quickly in Tartu, Tallinn and some other centre where competitive secondary education can be ensured. At the same time, the quality of secondary education is deteriorating in most counties, as students leave and teachers move to stronger schools. So it is justified for national efforts to be made evolutionaryly in the coming years, starting with...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U78	Minister, your time is up. The first point to be clarified by Tarmo Tammelt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U79	Thank you, manager. You did not, Mr Minister, respond to the development plan or the law on which state secondary schools are preferred. I will give you the opportunity to respond further to this question within two minutes. I also ask why the renovation and financing of state secondary schools is preferred to upper secondary schools owned by local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U80	The law does not give rise to any upper secondary school preference. This is also not the result of any development plan. And I think that such a preference on the basis of ownership would also be inappropriate. This preference will not be envisaged in the future. The current legislation provides that the costs of the school are to be covered by the budgetary resources of the school holder, in addition to which the State may grant public support. According to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, this is also done. So the preference for schools or discrimination on the basis of ownership has so far been inappropriate and will continue to be the case. I believe that all educational establishments will be treated equally with regard to those investments which have so far been aimed at improving the school network and which will continue to be targeted there, and there will be no discrimination here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U81	Another clarification question from Tarmo Tammelt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! I will give you a concrete example of discrimination on a quite large scale. In municipalities suitable for your party partners, you have bought schools for state secondary schools, for example, in Viljandi for between five and seven million. I ask why this behaviour is not being applied everywhere. Why is it applied selectively, why are such distinctions made? Is that equal treatment?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U83	I can't comment on the decision to buy a building from the local government right now. This is certainly not an educational policy decision; it is rather a post-communication decision between the state and the local government. I have not taken part in such a decision, and therefore I cannot comment on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U84	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U85	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have a brief question: will there be any differences in this upper secondary school reform? Local authorities spend money from their budget on maintaining upper secondary school and the state supports them in this regard. But is there any additional support available for upper secondary schools with, for example, very strong identity features (e.g. Värska Upper Secondary School)?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U86	The current Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act does not provide for such differences. However, one-off grants have been allocated at the expense of various programmes, i.e. not regular grants under the law. I think that such regional features could remain in the future. Should they be specifically laid down in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act? I don't know, I'd rather be suspicious of it. But maintaining different upper secondary schools probably deserves different treatment. We have a state gymnasium in Narva and also a Noarootsi Gymnasium, which the country has created according to different principles. All the more so, we maintain rather small core schools and support them specifically in very small municipalities, such as Ruhnu. So I think that the few exceptions will certainly continue to make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U87	I will conclude on this issue. I thank the members of the Government of the Republic for their answers and the good colleagues for asking questions. Today's Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U88	Good fellows! Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the third Wednesday session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I am passing the Act amending § 21 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act. By § 1 (3) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the Riigikogu has authorised the Government of the Republic to decide on the use of a language different from the Estonian language in municipal upper secondary school or in its individual classes. Unfortunately, the Riigikogu did not fix the criteria for granting or refusing authorisation in the law, which has placed the executive power in a difficult situation where the government cannot be certain of the legislator's will to implement this rule. On the other hand, the vagueness of this law has created social tensions between the advocates of the various interpretations of the norm. The purpose of our draft is to lay down specific criteria which form the basis for the government to grant or refuse this authorisation, while guaranteeing everyone's right to instruction in Estonian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U90	I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U91	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have two inquiries to report today to Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher. The first of these is on the issue of the premium for the members of the Defence Police. I'd like to understand why this premium is paid. Is this a disproportionately high working pressure or is this premium paid on the basis of a mere regional differentiation of 15 or 25%? This is the first question. I'd like to talk more about the second question. Some of you were here on Monday when the Minister of the Interior answered an inquiry into corruption crimes. Yesterday, I counted the verbatim. The Minister did not answer any questions. I would not like to be the initiator of such a rather poor precedent that we are giving ministers the opportunity to come here to the Riigikogu and not answer questions. That is why, together with some ten colleagues, I am going to go back to this question. We hope that the next time the Minister comes here, he will still be able to answer our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U92	Priit Toobali, the speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is said that whoever reminds me of the old thing has an eye out of his head, but if this old thing is constantly causing trouble, then you have to talk about it and talk about it here in the Riigikogu Hall. In particular, on 31 October last year, it was decided to terminate the employment relationship with Tero Taskila, the CEO of Estonian Air, on the grounds of the failure of the strategy chosen by him. Tero Taskila was criticised for having been paid more than EUR 33 000 per month during his term of office. However, Tero Taskila, which proved to be costly to the Estonian state at the time, seems to have caused costs for months after his resignation. On 22 November, an interview was published in the Estonian Päevaleht with Estonian Air's new leader, Jan Palmér, who pointed out that difficulties had arisen to get rid of the sponsorship agreement concerning the World Championship in Ice Hockey. There has been a public refusal to comment on the size of the sponsorship agreement, but according to the press, it is estimated at nearly EUR 1 million. Nor can it be overlooked that in the spring of 2012, Joakim Helenius, then chairman of the Estonian Air Council, and Tero Taskila, CEO, announced that they would create a top ice hockey club in Estonia, who would start competing in the Finnish league. On behalf of 13 colleagues, I am going to refer an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Let us put together five questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U94	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request from the Alliance of Democrats to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, regarding the quality of Estonian Air's service. We all know that Estonia's airline Estonian Air has exceeded the news threshold in recent months in relation to various topics, whether it be changes to the strategy, several hundred million losses, irrational aircraft purchase or the redundancy of nearly half of its employees. At the same time, it seems that, alongside all these undoubtedly very important issues, the basics of service activity, i.e. the quality of service, are often forgotten. Some time ago, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip compared the activities of Estonian Air with those of public transport. It must be accepted that the main objective of the user of the air service is to obtain safe and conveniently from point A to point B and, at other times, at a reasonable cost. Quality can be assessed in particular by fulfilling its promises. In the case of Estonian Air, this promise would be to deliver the customer to the desired destination. And serious problems can be observed in this area: the customer cannot be delivered at the time he or she is told to be in the place he or she wishes. It is constantly heard that routes are being cancelled, cancelled or delayed. However, if the criteria set are not met, customer confidence will be lost and the business will not be sustainable in the long term. Consequently, we have five questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U96	Good fellows! On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and four inquiries, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a Draft law amending the Place Name Act and Land Book Act, initiated on 28 January, is the Rural Affairs Commission; secondly, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Fire Safety Act, initiated on 28 January, is a commission of law; thirdly, the Government of the Republic. A draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act, the Rescue Services Act and related laws, initiated on 28 January, is the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Board of the Riigikogu is asking you very, very good colleagues to keep the hall quiet, because your conversation is disturbing to work in this Chamber! Fourth, the Government of the Republic s. a Draft law on the amendment of the Civil Service Act and other laws, initiated on 28 January, is the Committee on Social Affairs; fifth, the Government of the Republic. a Draft law on the amendment of the External Action Service Act and the Public Service Act, initiated on 28 January, is a commission on foreign affairs; sixthly, the Estonian Central Party Group. a Draft law on the amendment of the Income Tax Act, initiated on 28 January, is the Committee on Monetary Affairs; seventhly, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the Group of the Estonian Central Party, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the members of the Riigikogu, Rainer Vakra, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laaneti and Deniss Borodichi. A draft of the Riigikogu's decision of 29 January to establish the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry to investigate illegal transactions relating to the VEB Fund; the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U97	Good fellows! Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first item is the third reading of the draft law 276 on the implementation of Regulation No 211/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Citizens' Initiative initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There are no requests, so we can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 276 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft Act 276 on the implementation of Regulation No 211/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Citizens' Initiative, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U98	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Food Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 322. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. So we can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put the 322 bill to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft law amending the Food Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U99	We will move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the State Legal Aid Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the State Tax Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and, in this connection, the draft law amending other laws 346. I ask the Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to introduce to you the draft law on state legal aid initiated by the Government of the Republic, the State Tax Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and related amendments to other laws. Of course, as in the case of a bill prepared by the Ministry of Justice...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U101	Minister, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, we are currently dealing with bill 346, a hearing of the Minister's report is underway. I ask the members of the Riigikogu to respect the waitress and those who wish to listen to the introduction of this bill. Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U102	Thank you. I did not go where I wanted to assure you that this is a very good and certainly forward-looking draft. The purpose of the draft is to improve and extend the full-digital process of state legal aid, in particular in the application procedure for the designation of the public legal aid provider and in the application and calculation of the remuneration and expenses to be paid to the lawyer. The IT solution should facilitate the process of applying for a lawyer, a investigating authority, a prosecutor's office and a court to be designated as a national legal aid provider, and of applying for and establishing fees, as well as the process of the Bar Association's work in supervising state legal aid matters, and drawing up statistics, reports and forecasts. If, at present, the defendant sends a request to the barrister for designation as a legal aid provider, to which the order granting state aid must be added separately, the draft provides an opportunity to waive requests for legal aid from the State in its own right and to facilitate the application for legal aid. Similarly, applications for the determination of the amount of the State legal aid charge and the extent of the reimbursement of the costs of legal aid, the determination of the amount of the State legal aid charge and the costs of legal aid are currently submitted on paper in the judgment in the case or in the order closing the proceedings. The draft law empowers the Minister of Justice to lay down a procedure for lawyers to prepare fee applications in the information system that go digitally to the investigating authority, the prosecutor's office or the judicial information system. In order to determine the fee, the person concerned shall draw up a solution which shall be forwarded through the information system to the lawyer so that he can apply to the barrister for payment of the fee and the cost of legal aid to him. The second main amendment is to provide for a more favourable rate of state fees for submitting a complaint through the relevant information systems, thereby facilitating the electronic submission of complaints to the Regulation. The Code of Civil Procedure also introduces a specific amendment to the digital file. The State Fees Act provides for additional possibilities for the lodging of decree complaints with a lower rate of state fees when the appeal is lodged through the company portal, the land portal or the e-notary information system. Pursuant to § 57 (14) of the State Fees Act, a state fee of EUR 50 must be paid in the event of an appeal against a court order. If this document is submitted via the e-file information system, the state fee shall be EUR 25. According to the amendment, a state fee of EUR 25 is to be paid in the event of a request for a regulation even if it is made through a company portal, a land portal or an e-notary information system. The aim of the amendment is to facilitate the electronic submission of complaints to the Regulation and to reduce the workload of the rural courts' offices for the transmission of complaints to the Regulation. The purpose of amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure is to clarify the rules governing the service of procedural documents through the e-file system. According to the current regulation, the invitation made available in the e-file system is known to be received by the person when it is opened in the e-file system. According to the draft, the invitation will be deemed to have been received even if the person confirms receipt of the invitation in the e-file system without opening it. The draft provides for the obligation for the courts to make available to the parties to legal proceedings, through the e-file system, all procedural documents relating to legal proceedings. The amendment is necessary, in particular, for the parties to the proceedings to be able to consult at any time the documents in the case file relating to them, to be informed of the progress of their case and to carry out, without hindrance and in due time, the necessary procedural measures. In addition, the draft introduces the possibility of holding a digital case file in criminal and misdemeanour cases. The digital case-file is a reasonable continuation of the information technology developments in the judicial system that has been set up to date and will, among other things, help to save the state's costs of keeping paper files and will also be more efficient and convenient for the parties to legal proceedings. I'd be happy to finish the report on that. I certainly support the Commission's proposal to conclude the first reading and to proceed with the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U103	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? There are no questions. Thank you! I would like to ask Kalle Jents, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft on 21 January. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, Madis Timpson, Advisor to the Ministry of Justice's Supervisory and Legal Service, Gunnar Vaikmaa, and Margit Veskimäe, Adviser to the Legislative and Development Service. Like the Minister, the Members of the Commission found that this was a positive and constructive draft, they did not have any serious problems. There were some questions to the Minister that, now that the legal aid of the State is being handled digitally by lawyers, were there any legal fraud detected. It was examined whether their numbers could now increase. We have received the answer that we are dealing with honest people in the form of lawyers, and such problems have very rarely occurred, if any. Secondly, I would like to refer to this novel moment, which the Minister has just mentioned. If you no longer have to open a paper file, is it possible that an electronic invitation will be sufficient? However, as you have heard, the recipient must confirm receipt of the invitation. We know that the courts have a very serious problem finding people, some of them simply do not make themselves known. Unfortunately, however, it is probably not enough to put up a Facebook invitation, for example. All decisions were taken by consensus by the Commission. The decisions were to put this draft on the agenda of the plenary session today, i.e. by 30 January, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 13 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U105	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U106	Dear waitress, When you assess the draft, did you also mention how to ensure access to legal aid for people who do not use the Internet and live outside its range? Using the Internet is a human right, but not an obligation. How is access to information guaranteed for these people on an equal footing with those who have access to the Internet?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U107	We did not think of this problem ourselves, so it did not rise in committee. So I could say we didn't discuss it. But I've figured it out so well that paperwork remains, that possibility remains. All of this concerns digital files in both criminal and civil processes; they are gradually being switched. It also scans paper documents, but they're still there. It's a transition process. I'm sure there'll always be a lot of people who never use a computer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U108	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 346 amendments to the draft text at 4 p.m. on 13 February. The first reading is closed and the third item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U109	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Advertising Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. It is my great pleasure to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This draft, too, is indisputably one very good and necessary draft. But before I go to the content, let me stop for a while at the origin of this bill. In spring 2011, the Consumer Protection Board drew attention to the practical problems with the regulation of responsible lending resulting from the Consumer Credit Directive, which entered into force on 1 July 2011, and problems with advertising of consumer credit. The main problems identified then were as follows: Firstly, there have been difficulties in interpreting the regulation of the Law of Obligations Act on issues such as creditworthiness, i.e. exactly how the assessment of creditworthiness should take place, how the creditor should play an active role in granting credit, assessing creditworthiness, etc. Secondly, the problem of the regulation of advertising law was raised, which tends to discourage consumers from taking loans. On 20 March 2012, these issues were discussed at the joint session of the Committee on Economic, Legal and Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu, and as a result of the discussion, the Riigikogu proposed to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to prepare the necessary legislative changes for the Riigikogu. This brings me to the purpose of the bill before you. If you try to define it well briefly, it might sound as if it was motivated by the problems encountered in practice and by the proposal of the Riigikogu with the corresponding content, the draft in question clarifies the regulation of responsible lending of the Law of Obligations Act and the regulation of advertising of financial services in the Advertising Act. The amendments to the Law of Obligations Act aim to make the existing regulation of responsible lending of the Law of Obligations Act work better and more effectively through clarifications. We know that the aim of the regulation of responsible lending as a whole has been essentially unchanged over time, and that does not change with this draft; the common goal is to prevent over-indebtedness. The main objective of the proposed amendment of the advertising law is to make every effort to exclude the creation of risk-free and easy-to-resolve links to financial problems in the promotion of consumer credit. In advance, I also mention that the Consumer Protection Board is planning to issue, as we know, an indicative guide on responsible lending. Now, a little bit more specific about the changes that await us. We do not want to change the current principle of the Law of Obligations Act, but we want to clarify this law and, as has been mentioned, to amend and supplement the Law of Advertising in the same way. Now for the details of the Law of Obligations Act. Firstly, the concept of consumer creditworthiness. According to the draft, creditworthiness is the consumer's ability to repay the credit under the terms of the contract. Secondly, it specifies the circumstances to be taken into account by the creditor when assessing the creditworthiness of the consumer. Such circumstances include the financial situation of the consumer, regular income, data on the fulfilment of other financial obligations and past payment obligations, and the impact of a possible increase in the financial obligations arising from the consumer credit agreement. And thirdly, it specifies the creditor's obligations to obtain relevant information from the consumer. As a result of the amendment, it should be clear that the assessment of creditworthiness and the obtaining of the necessary information are the responsibility of the creditor and cannot be put on the consumer's shoulders. If a person starts to take out a loan, the creditor must collect information on his income, existing assets, other financial liabilities and past payment behaviour before the conclusion of the contract. It is the obligation of the creditor to collect relevant information, including a clear request from the consumer. Given, on the one hand, the consumer's income and assets and, on the other hand, the existing financial obligations and additional obligations with the loan to be granted, the creditor shall assess whether the consumer is likely to be able to repay the credit under the conditions laid down in the contract or not. This is the creditworthiness assessment that has been opened up. The creditor shall then provide the consumer with sufficient explanations to enable him to decide whether the credit agreement offered meets his needs and financial situation. In such a case, the consumer can take a prudent decision when concluding the contract, based, inter alia, on the results of the creditworthiness assessment. This should help to avoid over-indebtedness and default. Improvements in regulation will also lead to improved supervisory possibilities, and better supervision will ensure that consumer credit regulation is applied more effectively. Now for the changes to the advertising law. Provision shall be made for advertising informing about the willingness to grant consumer credit or to mediate such contracts to contain only essential information concerning the creditor or credit intermediary and the service provided. Similarly, it provides that advertising informing the willingness to grant consumer credit or to mediate such contracts must be responsible and balanced. Advertising must not give the impression that taking consumer credit is a risk-free and easy way of resolving financial problems, nor should it encourage consumers to borrow unthinkingly. Thirdly, the regulation on advertising for financial services is complemented by a general requirement that the mandatory information provided by the Advertising Act must be presented in a way that is visible, understandable and distinguishable from other information in the event of normal attention. The responsibility and balance of advertising means that information about the possibilities or objectives of using consumer credit must not dominate information about the obligations associated with borrowing. It is also prohibited to use morally sensitive adverts against good practice. At this point, I will draw a line and announce that I support the Committee on Legal Affairs' decisions to close the draft at first reading and to proceed further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U111	Let's get to the questions. Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U112	Good minister! As the draft law understands, monitoring of compliance with the obligations set out here will, as I understand it, be largely the responsibility of the Consumer Protection Board. Has there been any talk about how much this could increase the work of the Consumer Protection Board? Is there much more, and is the Consumer Protection Board prepared for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U113	The draft has been a circle of coordination between ministries and other government bodies, and all concerned have had the opportunity to assess the impact of the draft on their area of government, if any. As far as we know, no one has expressed such concern. Certainly, if you look at the substance of the draft, as I said in the introduction, the draft will, in particular, clarify the existing law, which the Consumer Protection Board is also monitoring, at the moment, the implementation of these provisions. And now that the Consumer Protection Board has been given clearer guidance on how to interpret the law, it should rather simplify their work. On the one hand, the scope for interpretation will be smaller and, on the other hand, we hope that there will also be fewer disputes, which in turn means that the work of the Consumer Protection Board should become more effective, clearer, understandable. And when such disputes arise, it will be much easier to interpret them in court when they arrive there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U114	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U115	Dear Minister, Can you give an example of the experience of other EU countries in how they behaved, behaved or intend to act in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U116	Here perhaps it is worth going back for a moment to the very beginning of my report, where I mentioned the Consumer Credit Directive, which came into force on 1 July. This directive has been transposed in most European countries, and the principle of regulation of responsible lending resulting from the directive is honoured in all European countries. Of course, the legal provisions are different, but the principle of the Consumer Credit Directive is the same in all EU countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U117	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U118	Good minister! My question concerns the promotion of fast-track loans. It's not like there's a lot of falsehood in there right now, they say, "Kill-ding, money comes and the cost of credit is this." I see a slightly different aspect here: that advertising is massive. On television, it hits the screen during every advertising break, several companies keep advertising and advertising, and it already has a subconscious effect on people. There may also be some warnings that may be mandatory for advertising to turn to when side effects occur and complaints persist, I do not know who, but it does not save, because it is precisely because of its weight. And a person already because this ad is so massive, it gets the feeling that lending and SMS lending companies are really an inevitable phenomenon in our lives that we cannot escape. Has the possibility of restricting this advertising in any way not been discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U119	As far as advertising is concerned, I would still focus on the content of the ad. If you also undertake this draft, you will see that there is a principle in the amendments to the Advertising Act that, in the case of consumer credit, advertising may contain only essential information about the creditor or credit intermediary and the service provided. In other words, morally sensitive advertising statements against good practice should not really be in advertising. The practice is to show how it works in real life, but the sentences in the style of "free loan" or "Christmas loan time" are all such credit adverts and morally opposed sentences should disappear from our advertising market and from our television screens. Ultimately, we can, of course, introduce regulation; the interpretation of this regulation is a matter for the courts. But we hope that the regulation proposed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications concerning advertising on lending will be sufficiently clear and will prevent consumers from being misled.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U120	Jaanus Tamkivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U121	Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, the new section of the amended advertising law states that advertising informing about the willingness to grant or mediate consumer credit must be responsible and balanced. My question is: how will this responsibility and balance be assessed and what are the fines if that is not the case?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U122	The Law of Obligations Act, as well as other laws, contain quite a number of abstract legal provisions that leave room for interpretation in the Estonian legal order. Much remains of the issue of the consumer protection agency's assessment. There is no intention to change the sanction rates mentioned in the Advertising Act in relation to this draft. They must be taken from the end of the advertising law and look at the penalty provisions for the extent of the penalties involved. I don't have that law with me right now, but you might want to take it for a second. The penalty rates at the end remain the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U123	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask Valdo Randpere, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U124	Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed this draft at its meeting on 21 January 2013. All members of the Committee on Legal Affairs attended the meeting, along with Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur, Minister Madis Timpson, Counsellor of the Private Law Service Kristiina Koll, Head of the Department of Commerce of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications Anne Laar, and Specialist Kadri Siibak, external to the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance. The draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Advertising Act was discussed. As the Minister has already spoken so thoroughly about this, I have little to add, perhaps only that there was a very interesting discussion in the Commission on the content of the draft. On the basis of this debate, I almost call on you to put forward a number of proposals to improve this draft. In my opinion, too, there are points that could be improved, which could be discussed as to whether they should be improved. And since I see that the Minister of Social Affairs is also in the Chamber, I also call on the Ministry of Social Affairs to do so. In fact, there could also be some views or even amendments from them, as the subject is quite closely linked to this area. But one fact came out of our discussion. It didn't come up at the meeting right away, but later we got some information about it. I asked for it myself. I have long been interested in how big this problem is at all, how much money we are talking about and how many of these fast-lending companies there are in Estonia. We received this kind of information, although it is not statistically 100% accurate, it is very difficult to find out for various reasons, as these companies do not have to be registered as financial institutions, but there are estimated 400 companies in Estonia that could be involved in providing fast-track loans to consumers. Most of them are not active, about 70 companies are active. The volume of loans issued last year was estimated at EUR 45 million. After we had discussed all these substantive issues, we made some procedural decisions, and these are as follows: to send this draft on the agenda of the plenary session by 30 January, to propose that the first reading be terminated, also by consensus, and to propose the deadline for the amendments to be set at 13 February 2013. This too was a consensual decision. Valdo Randpere was also appointed rapporteur. This, too, was a consensual decision, although over a period of time we had a strong competition that could report the draft here. I have nothing else to add, if anyone has any questions, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U125	Jaanus Tamkivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U126	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Maybe we could talk a little bit about this short-term issue. As we have learned, there are 400 or even more in Estonia, which is, of course, a surprisingly large number. How has the relevant inspection been carried out in Estonia and how information about these fast lenders is collected? And if you can, maybe you can compare our regulation to an analogous code elsewhere in Europe. What's the picture really like? And what could be different in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U127	That's a good question! We discussed this a little bit, and I assume that this is also an area for which there may be an amendment. But it is basically the case that in Estonia, the Consumer Protection Board exercises control over fast-lending companies; in the European Union, it is mostly the Financial Inspectorate in our sense. As I recall, in six countries of the European Union, this inspection has been placed with the Consumer Protection Agency. And of these six, for example, in Sweden, we are now considering very seriously the introduction of controls under the Financial Supervision Authority, as Sweden has also had explosively growing lending activities and this has led to certain social problems. In this sense, it is a good question that we really need to think about whether companies providing instant loans could be subject to the same control measures as banks, for example. This also ties in with today's draft, as the assessment of creditworthiness in banks may be a bit more serious and documented. However, it cannot be said that there is no obligation for high-speed credit firms to document. Last year was also one of the Supreme Court's decisions of 27 November, in my opinion, that fast-lending companies also have to document the procedures for assessing the credit standing of the lender.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U128	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U129	Good waitress! If there are 400 fast-lending companies, then there are probably 400 companies that provide debt recovery services, and as a rule they do not use any violence. I know my relatives have been exposed to it. They've just hired so ugly people that when I see them on the street, I'm just going across the street, even though I don't owe them. But my question is about advertising. Did the Commission not discuss the possibility of restricting advertising not only on the subject, but also some restrictions so that it would not come from all over the world so massively? Advertising can also be a very dry phone number, the word 'high-speed loan', and nothing else, but if it's so massive, it just eats into the brain. Has the Commission not discussed restrictions on the volume of advertising?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U130	First of all, I have to say that beauty is in the eye of a viewer who somebody thinks is beautiful. I thought you said there were some ugly people working in some company that you're afraid of. Secondly, if we go to the substance of the question, that is not the way we discussed it. There was a little question upstairs, maybe one of your party buddies said maybe he'd ban the ad at all. But we must remain within the scope of this interpretation that it is an economic activity. I am liberal in the world and I believe that we should not ban this kind of economic activity, but we should do our utmost to prevent people from making stupid decisions from their own perspective. It was mentioned here that the Consumer Protection Board would issue a brochure. The Financial Supervision Authority already has an Internet site for myraha.ee, where people get quite good tips. However, the problem is also that borrowers are often not interested in any warnings or more accurate information. They think you make a beep, and the money comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U131	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U132	Good colleague! Speaking of loan ads, it's amazing that when you hear it on the radio, the first half sounds pretty good, you know what you're talking about, how much you can take. But the other side is being squealed so fast that you don't know your duties at all. I don't know what you're gonna have to do after and how much you're finally gonna owe me. But it's astonishing at the number of 400 companies that are working on it right now. It's information from you. I want to ask: how could the state regulate the number of these companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U133	To clarify once again that there are 400 companies that are theoretically capable of dealing with it. But not everyone does. About 70 companies are active in this field. One way to regulate it would be, yes, to subject these companies to some kind of registration. It ties a little bit to the subject I was talking about earlier, the control mechanism, and how it goes on. This is a good topic for discussion, as is advertising, which can be very tempting, but plays unethically on very sensitive languages, such as children. Or a very good example: in fact, we have a statutory credit cost rate, which is the maximum amount that can be taken. Nevertheless, adverts show rates of credit cost, which are far above 3000 percent, which should in itself be prohibited by law. Nevertheless, they are advertised as a service offered. At this point, however, my understanding of how this is possible is also running out.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U134	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Eldar Efendiev, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U135	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, in my short speech, I marked the problem of fast-track loans. But since the audience was most of the opposition and there were no representatives of the coalition, I repeat a little, because today the coalition is much more involved in this bill. Unfortunately, the subject of my speech today concerns too many people in Estonia. This is fast-track loans, including SMS loans and their enslavement. The Ministry of Justice has, for its part, developed a draft restricting the advertising of financial services, and this draft has already been discussed in the Steering Committee, but we still have to ask whether it is sufficient and what we still have to do. I repeat, in fact, the problems started much earlier, namely during the economic boom and the ensuing crisis. Banks urged people to take out a variety of consumer loans, and overpriced real estate assets gave rise to the loan race. Many people who bought an apartment for 1 million kroons in their own time have to admit today that it is worth several hundred thousand kroons less. At the same time, the Estonian state behaved quite differently and did not take out the loan. This is the case in Estonia, where the debt burden of the state is very low, but the debt burden of the people is very high. The relevant structural unit of the European Union has also pointed out that Estonia should do something to reduce the debt burden of Estonian residents, which in overall terms exceeds the amount of the annual state budget. Unfortunately, the government did not take any steps to stop wild lending. Too little was said about over-indebtedness and the need to think ahead and the introduction of credit limits. The problem was highlighted by Eesti Pank, but no one recommended listening to it. The loan was wanted and the loan was granted, and those who warned against the crisis were insulted. This led many people to a situation where, in the event of a job loss, a quick loan had to be taken in order to keep their home. Again, the state's failure! Very little information was given to the public on the dangers and high interest rates of fast loans. And fast-borrowing companies that profited from people's trouble came up like mushrooms after rain. The rulers did not think of the need to limit them. Of course, I am pleased that there is now some basis for curbing the rapid credit market. The draft drawn up by the Ministry of Justice specifies the conditions for granting a loan to the consumer and sets out more specific requirements regarding the promotion of the loan. The Ministry has found in the draft that advertising of financial services should be further restricted in order to prevent the creation of emotionally positive links and the temptation of people to take consumer credit as if it were a risk-free and easy solution to their financial problems. I totally agree! But surely we need to pay very great attention to the fact that fast-track loans are very easily available, they are offered online and even in shops. By the way, Estonian Post also issues a fast loan through a cooperation partner, advertising it under a slogan that if you do not want the bank to find out, it is possible to obtain it in cash. Does a public undertaking have to be involved in such a service? It is also a matter of ethics. The problem of short-term loans is more about younger people who have no experience of self-management and thinking about the future. But can an 18-year-old school student be granted a loan even though he or she does not have a job and depends on his or her parents' income? Today, there was a view in this Chamber that advertising could be restricted, but it cannot be banned, because it does not comply with the principles of the liberal economic model. But the siege really comes under the question, I bring the example of casinos or the sale of alcohol. That's what we're gonna limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U136	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 347. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. 15 February 2010 at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fourth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U137	We will move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Medicines, the Penal Code and the Law on State Fees, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Social Affairs of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The aim of this draft is to prevent the spread of falsified medicinal products and to improve the availability of medicinal products, as well as to ensure the convenience of the service with regard to the authorisation of the online sale of medicinal products. The first part of the draft is therefore about how to prevent falsified medicinal products from entering the legal supply chain, while the second half concerns distance sales of medicinal products. The draft law establishes the requirements of the European Union Directive in Estonia in order to prevent falsified medicinal products from entering the legal supply chain. Currently, counterfeit medicines also reach patients through official channels in many parts of Europe, as counterfeits are visually difficult to detect and counterfeit active substances can reach the production of medicines directly. Of course, falsified medicines are dangerous because they may contain low-quality ingredients, may not contain or contain prescribed active substances. The draft also defines the concept of falsified medicinal products in Estonian law in order to clearly distinguish falsified medicinal products from other illicit medicinal products, including products whose marketing infringes intellectual property rights or the production or marketing of which is subject to quality mistakes. As has been said, the second important issue in the draft is the distance selling of medicines. The ban on the supply and purchase of medicinal products over the internet will be lifted and requirements for the distance sale of medicinal products from general pharmacies will be introduced. Provision shall be made for the obligations of pharmacies for the distance sale of medicinal products, as well as for the new obligations of drug dealers, manufacturers and the Agency. Only holders of a general pharmacy licence and a distance seller may sell non-prescription and non-prescription medicines, and only non-prescription medicines from veterinary medicinal products. Special authorisation for the sale of medicinal products containing psychotropic substances and narcotics should be granted by the Agency. Recipes are issued for distance sales only on the basis of Estonian digital prescription, medicines can be delivered via postal or freight services, and delivery fees must be the same for the same delivery methods across Estonia. We also require that medicinal products should be delivered within three days at the latest. This particular change should significantly improve the availability of medicines even in areas where there is no pharmacy nearby. The draft was proposed to allow online sales only within their municipality, city or county, but we still need to state very clearly that every Estonian can be ordered from any online pharmacy, regardless of which rural municipality or city they live in. This means that it is also possible to get the medicine directly at home for those who do not have a pharmacy nearby. It is also important to stress that in an online pharmacy the requirement that a person should be able to seek advice from some pharmacists is the same as in an ordinary pharmacy. If a person indicates that he or she wishes to receive advice from a pharmacist when ordering a medicinal product on the Internet, he or she will be able to communicate with him or her by telephone or e-mail and explain to him or her how to administer the medicinal product and what contra-indications or indications should be taken into account. The draft will enter into force as a general rule. The obligations of pharmacies relating to the sale of narcotic drugs will enter into force on 1 April 2013, the provisions relating to the production and marketing practices of the draft on 2 July 2013 and the provisions relating to the security features and the uniform logo of the European Union, which are still under development, will enter into force in accordance with a separate procedure to be laid down by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U139	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U140	Good minister! Perhaps you will also introduce to the members of the Riigikogu what dangers you see in this area or what are the most controversial issues that were brought to the table when developing the draft? We can already see that small country pharmacies are very concerned that their clientele can dry up and that they are forced to close their doors. And, for example, is there a risk that, in certain cases, medicines may become more expensive in relation to this directive? Could you point out some of the main points of dispute?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U141	I don't think it's gonna have a negative effect on the land pharmacies. There are a lot of people in Estonia who still want to buy from the pharmacy, and I am not convinced that all people used to going to the pharmacy will order online. I'm not worried that changing the law would have a very negative effect on pharmacies. However, it gives an additional opportunity to people who do not have a pharmacy in their vicinity, so I see a positive effect. I also see a positive effect in that we all want to be sure when we buy the medicine that it really is the medicine that the packaging says that the active substances are the ones that have to be. I think it is extremely important that public health is protected.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U142	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U143	Good minister! I have two questions in my pack, if you don't mind, one is very short. Here's the first one. You were talking about fake drugs that this bill should stop you from spreading. I remember last year we had this anti-piracy bill that gave rise to a little scream-scream. Its opponents began to say that if we accept it, we will no longer be able to sell copy medicines, or generic medicines, in Estonia. They either deliberately or accidentally confused two concepts. I want to hear from you now that this bill doesn't concern generic medicines. The second is this short question: does ordering online mean that I can also order medicines from outside Estonia and outside the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U144	If you start with the second question, you can basically order from another country, but the assumption is that there is a digital Estonian recipe. If a person goes on a longer mission and has a prescription prescribed by an Estonian doctor, this is theoretically possible. Safe delivery must, of course, be ensured and the pharmacy must also enter into a contract with the postal or transport service provider for this purpose. Now, the first part of the question. Yes, of course generic drugs are a completely separate subject. This bill is absolutely not about their sale. Generic medicinal products are perfectly legal, they contain the same active substance as the original medicinal product, they have just come on the market later on when the active substance is released. In Estonia, as we know, more and more progress is being made towards active substance orientation when prescribing prescriptions. It is not necessarily prescribed with the exact name of the medicinal product, but the active substance is prescribed. The person himself makes a decision in the pharmacy to advise the pharmacist wisely whether he buys the product of the company that originally developed the medicine or buys another manufacturer a medicine with the exact same active ingredient, which is often much cheaper. It's already a patient's free choice. Once again: The generic medicine and the fake medicine are very clearly different things.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U145	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U146	Good minister! One question: how many of these e- pharmacies could be created in Estonia and who could be their owners?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U147	The e- Pharmacy can be established by the authorisation holder of the general pharmacy. Theoretically, hundreds of them could be formed, but how much real does it really come about? It's a little early to predict. However, I very much hope that they will arise, and so much will arise that people will have a choice that can also compare prices, compare delivery methods and buy where the most suitable conditions are.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U148	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U149	Good minister! You gave the hope that the Estonian digital prescription could also order the medicine from abroad. But can you name countries where Estonian digital recipes apply?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U150	I would point out that the question was directed at the fact that if an Estonian patient wishes to order medicine from the Estonian e- Pharmacist, being himself abroad, it will reach him and whether it is possible. That's what I said, if there's a digital recipe, it's possible. Whether other countries recognise our digital prescription or do not recognise it has nothing to do with it, after all, it is a specific order for an online pharmacy in Estonia. And of course, Estonian online pharmacies in Estonia recognise Estonian digital prescription.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U151	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U152	I have about seven questions, but I'm gonna ask you one thing. As far as access to medicines is concerned, you have certainly analyzed that if a person has ordered a tablet pack or a liquid, what information he can rely on. Is the pharmacy also printed with instructions on how to take the medicine, or is the only source of information the fine print paper that tells you that if you eat this medicine, there will be all kinds of diseases and side effects? And I also ask you about the mail: do we have the ability to deliver the ordered drugs quickly by mail or other companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U153	The law requires that the possibility of consultation should be guaranteed when setting up an e- Pharmacy. In the same way as it is possible to obtain advice from a pharmacist when he visits the pharmacy, it must also be guaranteed in the e- Pharmacy. I mentioned earlier that there were a couple of possible specific communication channels. If the patient wishes to seek advice, he or she may do so by e-mail and may also contact the pharmacist by telephone. These opportunities must be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U154	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U155	Good Minister, one more question. As I understand it, everyone can start making pharmacies. Until now, there was a restriction that a certain number of pharmacies may be open to certain populations, but now anyone who has worked at the pharmacy for five years as a pharmacist can open an e- Pharmacy. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U156	Yes, those who have a general pharmacy license may, in the future, not only sell physically locally but also sell online. But I'm sorry, I missed half of the Mailis Reps question before, and I'm now taking the opportunity to answer that question. The question was about postal service providers: are there service providers in Estonia who deliver goods from door to door in quality. Yes, it is! There are several companies whose couriers deliver the goods home, their service across Estonia, I dare to predict, can cost €2 to €3 for medicines. The current price lists are somewhat different, there are companies that, for example, have a little more expensive delivery to the islands than delivery in Tallinn. In this case, however, the pharmacy must have concluded an agreement guaranteeing that everyone will receive an equal price regardless of whether you live in Tallinn or Setumaa or on the island. I think it's convenient for people to deliver from door to door. But there are other possibilities, which are mainly based on larger centres. For example, the medicine is ordered to a specific place, either in a post office or elsewhere, and there are other places. But I believe that the circle of door-to-door service providers is sufficient in Estonia. This is not a monopolistic market, there is competition, and I believe that service providers have the incentive to develop attractive prices for the pharmacy service as well, so that the goods can be recommended for delivery to the customer through them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U157	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U158	Good minister! It's great that we have another online service. It's progress and great! However, it is no special secret that most consumers of medicines are quite old and sick people. When a young man with an iPad orders his medicine, it may make his life a little easier, but he might as well go to the pharmacy. But does online sales also make life easier for people who live in Vasknarva, for example, where only five chimneys smoke in winter and where quite old people live in pairs. I think the bus goes there three times a week and then only once a day. How does online drug sales help these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U159	Thank you for a good question. I think progress is great, too. I'm absolutely sure we can't think so stereotypically anymore that older people don't use computers. On the contrary, they do! My grandfather is using very well, and our main communication is being e-mailed lately. Of course, yes, as a granddaughter, I must admit that I should visit him more often. But older people do use computers, and more and more. I think it is precisely those Vasknarva people who, I understand, do not have a pharmacy nearby and who find it difficult to go to the pharmacy, that the Internet pharmacy is helping. All they need to do is find the nearest computer. And today, the computer is not the only tool to access the Internet, so we need to find the closest channel to the Internet. And they can order their medicine directly to where you said it was, but five chimneys are smoking, and it will be delivered at the same price as for the tenant of the Õismäe floorhouse. This is, I think, a very important additional opportunity for these people. However, it is also true that neither online sales take away any existing options. This is an additional opportunity and more could be created by the state as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U160	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U161	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. With regard to the previous question, we talked about the number of companies. Does the Agency and the Ministry of Social Affairs have an overview of the number of companies that are currently authorised to sell medicines in our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U162	Thank you. I have to look at how many general pharmacies there are now in Estonia, so I can tell you this particular figure. But this number is, of course, very large. Basically, all pharmacies in the very place where they are currently operating can now also create a virtual gateway to their own pharmacy and start operations essentially across Estonia, i.e. put the Internet outlet to work for their own benefit. Every pharmacy has a chance. But as of now, I'll e-mail you the number of pharmacies to make sure you have accurate information.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U163	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U164	Good minister! In the case of an electronic pharmacy, is it possible for a pharmacist to assist the client in selecting a medicine?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U165	Yes, of course. That is also one objective, as I have already said. This is particularly necessary in quite a number of cases where a prescription does not prescribe a specific medicine but an active substance. Then, on the one hand, it is necessary to show the buyer what is related to the specific active substance in the e- pharmacy and, if he wants advice in addition to the usual information, i.e. the name of the manufacturer of the medicinal product and the price of the medicinal product, then, of course, it must also be guaranteed in the e-pharmacist. These channels were already mentioned before: the person should be able to choose whether he or she would like to consult by e-mail or telephone.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U166	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Maret Maripuu, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U167	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Act, the Penal Code and the State Fees Act at the meeting of the 332 Committee on 17 December 2012. Dagmar Rüütel, Head of the Pharmaceutical Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Andrus Varki, Legal Adviser to the Agency, participated in the meeting. Dagmar Rüütel gave an overview of the draft. Let me take a look at the debate that took place in the Commission. Like today in this Chamber, the Commission was also interested in the role of pharmacist in the e- Pharmacy and in the way in which advice is given. The head of the pharmaceutical department of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that the obligation to consult is the same as that of the counter sale. For distance sales, the customer is asked for advice before confirming the order and may choose to call or e-mail advice and the pharmacy must keep a document about the advice. The consultation revealed that medicinal products containing psychotropic active substances and narcotics are not sold at a distance, which is also prohibited by the Postal Convention. The Commission was interested in what would happen to active substances. This directive is seriously stepping on the toe of pharmaceutical manufacturers. The active substances are mostly imported from China and India and are now cut through and therefore, medicines in Europe are becoming much more expensive. There was an interest in how much this bill makes medicine more expensive for Estonian residents to become a law. The originators' representative replied that there was no change in the import of medicinal products and that there was a change in the active substances. Active substances may no longer be introduced into the EEA unless it is known whether they have been produced in accordance with the same rules as in the EEA. However, this does not necessarily mean that the medications are getting more expensive. The quality of active substances in medicines is currently checked by the pharmaceutical company itself. It follows from the Directive that manufacturers of active substances operating in most areas outside the European Economic Area will have to comply with good manufacturing and marketing practices in the manufacture of active substances. We have information from the European Commission that most countries are prepared to comply with these requirements. Currently, India and China are still open. They are ready to do so for two thirds and India has also expressed its willingness to issue a certificate with this content. The main regulation and requirements to be introduced under the Directive are as follows: Firstly, it is important that the raw material producer is audited and verified in the European Union and is included in the relevant list of the European Commission. If it is, there's no problem. Secondly, whether the exporting country confirms that its competent authority controls the manufacturers of the active substance and that compliance with the requirements is ensured. Thirdly, if the manufacturer is not on the European Commission list and the country does not confirm the verification by the competent authority, the manufacturer of the medicinal product must have audited the raw material manufacturer and issued the relevant certificate. The impact on the price of medicines could not be predicted by the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but he agreed that certain supply and availability failures might occur. The committee was interested in what a fake drug was. One Member of the Commission found that the fake drug was the one whose papers were misformed. Our people are accustomed to Russian medicines, they are not of a lower quality than those of the West, but the new directive will put Russian medicines at risk. A representative of the Ministry explained that a falsified medicinal product is mentioned in all cases of counterfeiting, whether in the preparation of documents or in the formulation of medicinal products. At present, we do not have a problem with counterfeit medicines sold at the back of the market by law enforcement bodies dealing with them, and there is also a specific responsibility for this. The problem is counterfeit medicines, which are so high that they penetrate the legal chain and the pharmacist cannot tell the difference. There was also an interest in the Commission, which is more protected by the directive, whether the manufacturers of medicinal products or the buyers of medicinal products, and what the costs of setting up e- pharmacies will be. Are the requirements for an e- Pharmacy so high that it makes it very costly to create them, and does the usual land-based pharmacist have the strength to do the e-Aptec? The originator's representative stressed that the directive and the resulting amendments to our pharmaceutical law protect the purchaser of medicines and impose requirements specifically on the manufacturer. Any economic activity also involves economic costs. The pharmacy, which currently exists and fulfils all the required conditions, will have an additional opportunity to communicate with buyers via the Internet environment. In the case of online sales, it is important to ensure that a person receives a medicinal product correctly and safely, as well as providing advice. A representative of the initiators sees this rather than broadening the possibilities of the land pharmacy. There was an interest in establishing an e-Apteek abroad and whether we can buy medicine from Germany today, for example, if it is cheaper than in Estonia. The answer to this question was that the prerequisite for setting up an e- Pharmacy is the existence of a pharmacy passport. On Internet portals all kinds of medicines are sold and it is very difficult to control. Europe went this way to give distance selling rights to the Member States, and the sale will come under the jurisdiction of a particular country and the supervision of a competent authority. The distance selling of non-prescription medicines requires the pharmacy to be registered with the competent authority and the state and competent authorities must inform the public. If anyone wants to buy a cheaper medicine from Germany, he has that right, but here are two important nuances. First of all, it is possible to buy a medicine from abroad that is authorised to be sold in Estonia. Another important condition is that the German online pharmacy must be able to advise the Estonian people; it must also be able to include a leaflet in Estonian with the medicine box. If an Internet pharmacy located in Germany fails to do so, it has the right to waive the service of the customer. It was asked that if an Estonian person has a digital prescription prescribed by our doctor and a person is staying in Great Britain, whether he or she can order the medicine for himself or herself via e- Pharmacy. The answer is: yes, if there is an e-Aptec in Estonia, there are no obstacles. It was interesting whether the pharmacy should also check the delivery of the medicinal product. A representative of the Ministry stressed that a pharmacist who concludes a contract with a transport service provider must also carry out a risk analysis, setting out certain conditions and obligations for the provider concerning the delivery of medicinal products. It was interesting that if a pharmacy receives an order, whether it should send the medicinal product out of its stocks or whether it may use a wholesale warehouse. The representative of the Ministry stressed that the general pharmacy may issue drugs only from its own stocks, without confusing wholesale and retail sales. That concludes our debate in the Commission. The Commission took the following decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session by 16 January in favour of 6 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention and that the first reading be closed. Four delegates voted in favour, one against and two abstentions. Since the presentation to the Minister in the Riigikogu on 16 January was not appropriate, the Commission discussed the issue again on 14 January and decided to propose a new proposal for the draft to be discussed on 30 January. That's all for it. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 13 February 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U168	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting 332 amendments to the bill at 5.15 p.m. on 13 February. The first reading is closed and the fifth item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U169	We are going to the sixth item, which is the first reading of the Estonian Administrative Division Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Act to facilitate the merger of local government units and the bill amending the Public Transport Act 352. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U170	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The aim of the draft is to simplify and facilitate voluntary mergers between municipalities. The main substantive amendments are as follows: First of all, the question of which municipality can join voluntarily. The current law states that we have government-appointed accession regions and municipalities can join within them. These accession regions are either in the way or in the way of life, because some municipalities have wanted to join in other ways. We are inevitably faced with a choice as to whether, according to the wishes of the local authorities, these accession areas should be adjusted or abandoned at all. The government's proposal in this draft has so far been determined to abandon accession areas, but to provide that a neighbour may join a neighbour, i.e. if there is a common border. There is also one exception, this is for islands: in the case of local government units located on islands, you can join without a common border. However, it will be monitored that the resulting municipality operates as a single service area in an organisational manner. The current wording speaks of the integrity of the municipality, and this has also raised questions. Is this about functional integrity or territorial integrity? This is the issue we have specifically received from the authorities of Hiiumaa, which have asked for clarification. We have come to the conclusion that the legislator has meant territorial integrity. The second substantive amendment concerns accession negotiations. The question has arisen: if one municipality proposes to join another, whether the municipality's consent to enter into negotiations is a decision that cannot be reversed. We have clarified this wording so that the municipalities understand very clearly: it is a decision to open negotiations, not a final decision. The third amendment concerns a situation where accession negotiations are conducted by more than two municipalities. We have seen, for example, that there are three municipalities in the accession negotiations, but one states that it will not participate in the process. The current wording is that the procedure will then be deemed to have ended, but here there has been some confusion as to whether the procedure has then ended for all parties, also for those wishing to move forward with the accession process. Obviously this has not been the point, and that is why we specify the wording in such a way that everyone understands in the same way. If one of the parties announces that it will conclude the accession negotiations, this will only mean winding up for it and not interrupting the whole process. The fourth substantive amendment concerns mergers grants. Local authorities are known to receive merger support in the event of accession. At present, the situation is that, if municipalities join and one party has already gone through the accession process before, two municipalities have already joined and, therefore, they have also received the accession grant, they are no longer entitled to the accession grant. Merger support is granted only in the light of the population of the party that has not previously joined anyone. It has probably been the case in the past that there is no frequent manipulation and successive accession, but obviously this has not proved to be a problem in Estonia. There have not been many accessions, and no one has tried to play games of this kind in order to get double accession support. In any event, according to the wording of the draft, the accession grant will be granted, with the exception so far going out, and will no longer be able to see whether or not it has been merged in the past. The fifth substantive amendment concerns the Public Transport Act. Indeed, many local government leaders have identified a serious obstacle in the accession process. At present, the State subsidises regional routes when they pass through different municipalities. Then they'll be counted as county lines. As a result of the merger, there is a situation where certain bus routes may prove to be internal to the municipality and there is now concern about the loss of public support for bus routes. It is now proposed to explicitly state in the law that the subsidy of bus routes will remain in the event of a merger when it comes to a route passing through the territory of a municipality. There are certainly a number of other ideas that could be changed in the Administrative Division Act. At the same time, there is a request to the Riigikogu to deal with this law relatively quickly, as it can eliminate very specific obstacles which may remain behind the merger of certain local governments this year, even though they have set the objective of carrying out the process in 2013. Please support the urgent processing of Bill 352. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U171	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U172	Dear Minister, Why are local governments allowed to join without having a common border only on islands, but not in mainland Estonia? What is the justification for granting such an exception?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U173	Such a compromise in the government was reached when discussing this bill. This is certainly justified in the case of islands, because there are clear centres of attraction on our islands to which the accession process is going. There may be more of these choices on the mainland, they're limited on the islands. For example, the municipalities of Hiiumaa have been interested in the merger. It is clear that in Hiiumaa there is a tensile centre, i.e. I quote this wording just as the island is functionally complete. Even if there's no connection with the border center, life still goes around that one center. Therefore, such an exception is also justified on a large island, not to mention small islands, where otherwise there would not be much to join. But in continental Estonia, there are more choices and more pictures, and that is why it is proposed that we still join our neighbours.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U174	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U175	Good minister! When you developed this draft, did you also discuss cooperation with other ministries, namely the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance, in the Government of the Republic and working groups? On the one hand, serious steps have been taken towards accession, and a call has been made for local governments to do so and rather practical proposals, while we know that the Ministry of Finance, as well as the Ministry of Education and Research, has given a very clear signal that in the future, one basic school will be funded on the territory of the municipality. All so-called secondary schools, not to mention upper secondary school, are the problem of the municipality itself. Aren't you afraid that for this reason, any kind of merger could get stuck?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U176	The debate on this draft was very lively in the government. Of course, I have also discussed this issue with ministers in various areas, and indeed with the Minister for Education, in particular, what to do so that the legislative amendment does not hinder the funding of schools. Last time we changed that law in 2009, if I'm not mistaken. We have followed the principle of removing, one by one, all the obstacles that arise. The financing of education is at such a difficult moment that the basic school and upper secondary school law does not regulate everything about itself; many things remain to be decided at the level of government regulation. Therefore, noise is often more than the cause. If we now read the specific drafts, it becomes clear that things are not as bad or scary as they sometimes try to show. But I have really put my heart on the Minister for Education that the rules on the allocation of education support should be established with a view to ensuring that it does not go against accession.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U177	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U178	Minister, thank you very much. The Chancellor of Justice has said on several occasions that the fundamental rights and protection of people in different municipalities have been resolved in very different ways and that such a situation is unconstitutional. If we now continue this voluntary accession, we will, in fact, continue to grow in this patchwork between the municipalities. We have very large and very small municipalities side by side, and this draft may also lead to the emergence of municipalities with no territorial common border, such as the islands. The whole picture's getting bigger and bigger. Is there any hope or possibility of developing some kind of coordinating guideline that can be coordinated in such a way as to make the end result unambiguous? Otherwise, we're gonna have some mush and cabbages.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U179	There are currently 226 municipalities in Estonia, and with their accession this number will gradually decrease and this year, probably. The picture is rather that there are few large and financially very capable municipalities who are able to provide much better services to their residents than small ones, and on the other hand there are many small ones. If we look at the number of inhabitants, half of Estonia's municipalities have fewer than 1800 inhabitants and half have more than 1800 inhabitants. Of course, the half of Estonian municipalities with fewer than 1800 inhabitants are in a very difficult situation if they have to compete with local governments, where there are 100000 inhabitants, for example. In this sense, i.e. the accession process rather balances the picture: there will be more strong ones. And it is good that the strong are created in areas where the strategic position is not favourable, for example, which are not located around the capital, but away from it. For example, if the merger of the four municipalities hoped for in Viljandi County takes place, it will balance and improve the situation in Viljandi County, also in comparison with Harju County. In this sense, I think that joining will certainly not make things worse, instead it will improve them. However, as regards agreeing more general rules, it depends on whether the majority of the Riigikogu comes to any position on the question of whether it is possible to direct local governments, even in the long term, to the least. We have set up a coalition working group to discuss these issues there too. I hope that such an agreement will be reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U180	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U181	Good minister! The government or council of the Republic will initiate a change of parish or city borders, but practice shows that two or three municipalities come together and decide that we will do it, and maybe they will. Here's my question. You've been a minister for more than five years, do you remember a case where a representative of the Government of the Republic went somewhere on the council and said that you see, we have this feeling that you should go together or disband? Has this happened in Estonia in five or six years?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U182	If we approach this informally, as a representative of the government, I have been happy to participate in very different debates on the future of municipalities and counties, and I have still invited the municipalities to join and to convey the message that the government's recommendation is to join, as soon as possible. We should never expect some kind of guidance to come from somewhere, but make our own choices. However, if we approach the question in a very formal way, that is to say, as stated in the law, the law really provides for two ways to initiate the merger: one on the proposal of the local council and the other on the proposal of the Government of the Republic. Next, the procedure is quite similar, whether it is a coercion on the initiative of the government or a merger on the initiative of the municipality itself. According to the law, in both cases the Government of the Republic will finally decide, which can actually decide both ways in both forms of negotiation. So this possibility exists, but no decision has been made in the government so far to join any municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U183	Kalev Lillo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U184	Minister, thank you very much. I am really glad that we have actually taken a step to meet the governments that want to join voluntarily. I am particularly pleased about the proposal to amend the Public Transport Act, which removes the fear that accession could be harmful rather than beneficial. But my question is this: during all the preparation of this draft, did you discuss any other options that would help make voluntary accession more attractive? For example, it has been said at length that maybe local government leaders who may no longer have to pay any compensation at their posts should also be told that there should be an increase in the rate of support.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U185	There was no mention of raising the level of support during the discussion of this draft. This is a number of very important organisational changes and I do not want the draft procedure to be suppressed because there is no money. If there is a clear view that there is a need to find additional money that must be taken into account in the future, I would be very pleased about that. But at the moment, we have been primarily engaged in organisational aspects. As regards the payment of compensation to local government employees in the event of a merger, the proposals of this kind have not been very popular in Estonia. I agree with you that we should consider this seriously. Our neighbouring countries have actually thought about this, too. During the Latvian administrative reform, the compulsory merger process provided certain compensation for local government leaders. In Finland, in the event of a merger, local government employees will be provided with employment during the next period. We, too, should be more open-minded here. If the majority of the Riigikogu supports this, we could consider it very seriously, because if the municipalities do not join, these people will be at work and they will be paid, but if they join, the employees will not lose anything if they are given the opportunity to continue working or receive compensation. There's no money loss in that sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U186	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U187	Good minister! Those municipalities that want to join in the upcoming municipal elections should make their decision in the coming months. I ask you for a brief overview of the state of the accession negotiations in the various regions of Estonia. How many mergings could there be in the fall?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U188	The merger decision has been made by the councils in negotiations between Kõue and Kose rural municipalities in Harjumaa, and the municipalities of Pärst, Paistu, Saarepeed and Viirats should join in Viljandi County. In fact, there are four municipalities that have gone seriously on the road to accession. For the rest, negotiations are under way, and I do not dare to say that there will certainly be other accessions. I have seen so many accession talks all over Estonia, and I have also attended these discussions myself, and I have tried to inspire people, but having seen this whole process, I dare not say anything until the decisions of the councils are in place. But I do know that it is true and very basically said in Põlva municipality and Põlva city, as well as in the municipalities of Northern West, including Vormsi island. Audru and Lavassaare are also discussing the merger quite seriously. And there's more. I can't remember any more now. I'll think about it, then I'll remember.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U189	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U190	Minister, thank you very much. It is really very progressive that voluntary accession is being promoted. That's the question I had here when I listened to those answers. Even if the willingness to join voluntarily is sufficient in Estonia, you have certainly done some analyses and perhaps produced questionnaires about what are the main arguments against why these accession thoughts remain merely the idea of why no accession negotiations will be opened at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U191	When you read the answers to this issue, the decisions of the councils, written letters, listen to these debates, the most common objection is about that there is little analysis. There is still a need to study, consider, and it is not exactly clear what will happen, whether or not marginalization processes can accelerate as a result. I have also written an article about this, where I have said that one question is most important. I have experienced that people are talking about any other subject, but in fact I see one question in people's eyes: they want to know what happens to them. If people have the answer to this question, people often do not dare to ask it publicly, if they are clear about what will happen to them, then the look is much clearer and then it is as if there are enough analyses and decisions to be made. In this sense, Kalev Lillo's question was in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U192	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U193	Minister, thank you very much. I very much hope that this one-and-a-half-page bill is not the whole package that the Government of the Republic has managed to put together to promote administrative reform. But volunteering is a good thing in itself. My question concerns the amendment of the Public Transport Act, namely those routes which have so far been the regional routes and now perhaps become urban or rural routes. The last sentence says that the county government finances a rural municipality or city line that develops like a county line. I ask: if this line already exists after one election period, will it be financed for a longer period or only within four years of this new united council meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U194	I understand the wording so much, yes. We have had very heated discussions with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications on how to proceed. In the long run, I think we need to find other solutions. It is like a very mechanical solution at all when we distinguish between eligible routes on the basis that they pass through several municipalities. After all, the local government leaders are wise and it is certainly possible to artificially set up the routes in such a way that they can pass through several municipalities. In my opinion, the future direction is rather that we are pursuing some other criteria, such as that we are dealing with the lines of scattered regions between several centres of attraction, etc. But it's a longer topic. At present, this proposal for a legislative amendment solves one particular concern for many local government leaders.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U195	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U196	Dear Minister, The biggest concerns of Estonia's rural areas are the rapid decline in population. How does a multi-segment government on one island, which is provided with this draft, encourage the people there to give up their emigration plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U197	The decline of the population is not just a matter for the rural population. If you look at the relevant data, it is also a very serious concern in the county centres. You can also give examples yourself that it has not been possible to establish good cooperation between the county centre and the surrounding municipalities. I have seen in many counties how instead of concentrating certain public services through investment in a centre where they are accessible to people throughout the county, there is a quiet fight between themselves. In particular, investments in the region are sought to disperse and not to reach an agreement on the type of service to be provided. If there are larger municipalities in the county, closer cooperation will result in more coherence in the selected areas and agreement on the wider area. Then the decisions to be taken will be more sensible, more can be done in the interests of the population and more competition will be offered to the local authorities, which are strategically in a very good place. After all, the latter have undisputed advantages in generating revenue and more. There's an inexorably certain race going on for the residents. This is not just an Estonian issue. We often lead by example in Finland, but Finland has two very important differences compared to Estonia. Firstly, in Finland, migration is positive, i.e. immigration exceeds emigration, although emigration also exists, and, secondly, migration is positive. We have a negative age and a negative migration balance. And yet the number of residents in half of the counties in Finland is also decreasing, from half of the counties to the rest of the counties. That is how these processes are, and for us, the question is how can we strengthen those counties that are currently donors in terms of the migration of residents. I believe that stronger municipalities and better cooperation within the county will certainly contribute to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U198	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U199	Minister, thank you very much. I admire your determination and will to carry out the reform of the municipality. Thank you very much for that. Unfortunately, I'm not an optimist, we'll reach 220 from 252 municipalities in probably 20 years. Should it not be written in law that at least a year before the two municipalities join, a loan may not be taken without the consent of the other party? What happened with the merger between Põlva City and Põlva Municipality shows, in my opinion, that a partner cannot be trusted. After the survey was carried out, Põlva Municipality took EUR 1550000, which had not been agreed with the city. Do you think this amendment would rule out such unreasonable decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U200	That's a good question! When we talk about voluntary mergers, of course, when one party does something unreasonable, it must always take into account that this may end in the absence of accession. At the same time, I wouldn't want to go too far the other way around. Our goal is to show that we always remove barriers. No one should be able to say that we can't join because we actually want to borrow and finish another object. I believe that in a voluntary merger, life regulates itself. If we were to reach a certain direction or coercion on the part of the state, it would certainly be appropriate. In Denmark, for example, this type of decision requires the consent of another municipality council, and the approval of one council is not enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U201	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U202	I would, however, once again stop at the merger of municipalities in such a way that they do not have a common border. It feels so unnatural. After all, it is not just about providing services; people also define themselves through the municipality. I understand when it comes to joining some kind of attraction center or another level centre around a county center, for example. That's normal. But if, for example, Kärdla and Kõressaare are now joining in Hiiumaa, what should a person call their place of residence? Does he live in the village of Ristna in Kärdla town or in Kõpu village, or is he a resident of Kõpu village in Kärdla municipality or of Kõrgssaare village? People need to know their address and their address changes. How is this supposed to happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U203	I've been to Hiiumaa a lot and I've been talking to a lot of giants, they call themselves giants. I assure you, no one has come to meet me and told me he's a highborn. Maybe there are people like that, but I haven't met them. There are certainly no people on the Kõpu peninsula, for example, who would say that I am a highborn. Here before, they asked what kind of mergers would happen. I cannot promise for others and do not know whether or not this reform will finally take place, but I have been given a clear signal that Kõressaare and Kärdla want to join and, of course, they want other authorities in Hiiumaa to join. Unfortunately, no one else wants to. The municipality of Kõressaare and the city of Kärdla actually have eight kilometres, 8 kilometres in the municipality of Pühalepa. I may be wrong, but it's about eight kilometers apart. I've spoken to the villagers of Pühalepa parish who live there in the meantime. They say that they do not really feel like the inhabitants of the municipality of Pühalepa, rather as the inhabitants of Kärdla. For them, the city of Kärdla is much closer, the Pühlepa Municipality is located on the other side of Kärdla, far further away for the people who live there on a eight-mile strip. The Municipality of Pühalepa is, in their opinion, in a much more uncomfortable place than the City of Kärdla. If the residents of Kõrgessaare and Kärdla ask us if we could join, is your answer not to join? If the answer is not to join, why not? Is it because Emmas, for example, doesn't like it or anyone else doesn't like it, or what is the real reason? Actually, in that eight-mile period, my heart won't say no. I think that makes perfect sense. If you ask the people of the municipality of Kõressaare, then the centre of their attraction is the city of Kärdla, see anywhere. That's why I think this merger makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U204	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U205	Good minister! One movie said your persistence would honor you. That also applies to this bill. But here's a serious question. The part of the explanatory memorandum relating to paragraph 1 states that a change in the administrative-territorial organisation may be initiated if the change would result in the formation of a local government unit consisting of administrative territories having a common border. What is this administrative territory in the sense of this explanatory statement? Are these separate territories of the merging municipalities? If so, will this not be a legal obstacle, for example, to the creation of Viljandi ringvalla, because, as we know, there is no common border between Saarepeed and Paistu today?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U206	First of all, on this consistency, I think that many of my consistent proposals are very much in line with the proposals of the former Minister of Regional Affairs, Peep Aru. I've read them. They're very similar. But as for the explanatory statement, I don't understand it that way. After all, these parishes all share a common border through one another. If we look at the wording of the bill, I don't think there's any reason to worry about it. We can reconsider this wording so that no one can challenge anything later, but in my opinion, if one has a border with the other and the other one has a border with the other, they will finally have a border and a territory.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U207	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U208	Minister, thank you very much. I have a question about an amendment to the case where one municipality has proposed to join several municipalities, or municipality A has proposed to B and C, in the hope that the municipality ABC will emerge. But if the answer from the municipality B is that it does not want to join, then I think there is a relatively logical regulation in the current law that we should now propose a new one, perhaps starting over. Maybe A doesn't just want to join C, maybe he wanted to see the whole of the three municipalities, not just the two. Do you think that this change has not been made with this idea so that it can proceed more quickly? Or is there a substantive argument in the back?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U209	I would point out that if one party says no and walks out of the process, others will have that opportunity. If they think it would make sense for the three of us to join together, but in the case of two joiners, they think somehow that the idea is lost, they can cancel the plan. I don't see a problem here. It's not the two of us who are forced to move on. But this change gives them an opportunity, for example, if two out of three are willing and want to join. Suppose these two are relatively large, and they decided to join in one of the smaller ones. If this little one gives up, it makes sense to avoid that this one can be disrupted by the whole process, because the other two simply do not have time to start all these formalities from scratch again. In this sense, I think that this change is practical and sensible, it does not put the rest in a forced position.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U210	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U211	Good minister! I am also pleased that we are a small step closer to voluntary accession. But I have a two-part question. The first is on the mobilisation of European Union money now and, hopefully, in the near future. At the moment, applying for it is self-governing, is there a plan to make a difference? And the second question: how much do county development plans and strategies support our direction towards voluntary accession? Are these plans sufficient from this point of view or should they be reviewed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U212	First of all, about the euro. As regards this financial period, which officially ends this year, although operations are largely eligible until the end of the following year, decisions have largely been taken here. Indeed, in the earlier version of the Act on the Promotion of Mergers, there was a reference that the merged municipalities should be encouraged in order to allow investments, and we specified this last time. If I am not mistaken, I believe that these changes entered into force in 2009. I was also here in the Riigikogu Chamber and I tabled these amendments. Then we specified that wording. The real life has been that benefits of this kind have only been included in measures developed and signed by the Minister for Regional Affairs; others, as far as I know, have not done so. This could have been taken more into account in other measures. For example, we had clear award points for the municipalities that joined the last round of the HOME Plan. This practice could have been implemented more often because it is often the merging municipalities that have the kind of investment problems in order to solve the problems of a tea, culture or other institution in cooperation. As for the future, there will be new calls for proposals in the new financial period. There is now a very wide debate on what the measures and decision-making processes of the new period will be. Will all financial allocations be sectoral ministries-based, or will certain regional instruments remain, such as the KOIT scheme, for which substantive decisions were taken in the counties? Whether there should be counties or some slightly larger areas of activity, this debate is still ongoing. I hope that the members of the Riigikogu will support the approach that such subsidiary measures, where decisions are made in certain regions, will remain in the next period of the distribution of euro money. I think this is very important, and it will probably also take into account the principle that certain things must be done by regions in cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U213	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U214	Dear Minister, While dealing with all this administrative reform, many municipalities have acted like rich grooms: they have been on the one hand, though on the other they have been looking for partners to join. At other times, it seems that this merger does not make sense and wants to join not because it is essentially the way people are better off in the future, but because it is simply because they want to join. If there's still money for it now, it's like it's okay. As your minister, aren't you afraid that such voluntary mergers may sometimes be random and in the future may make life more difficult for ordinary people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U215	If you look at Võrumaa, for example, there is a municipality with 700 inhabitants. The parish leaders confirm that they calculate their budget with the precision of one euro. The question is that they do not have financial capacity, they have problems. I think, from the perspective of the inhabitants of this municipality, accession is, in any case, an improvement in the situation. They themselves admit that if they continue with their 700 inhabitants, they will not be able to undertake serious development activities. This is a very difficult challenge for them. The municipality's leaders see clearly that, by being in a larger municipality and receiving more financial and expert resources, they have a better chance of resolving the concerns of their residents. In a situation where you are in such a critical state, the question is whether you want to join a little bit this way or this way, a little bit more setus, or a little less setus, is secondary. Here before it was referred to the Chancellor of Justice's view that the rights of our people are guaranteed and protected in very different ways. Protection of the rights of people in small rural municipalities, both on the one hand and on the other, would probably improve. I'm not that skeptical about this. If a small municipality with 700 inhabitants joins, for example, a municipality with 2000 inhabitants, then after that they could still join and form a municipality with a larger territory. I don't see any tragedy when they join up a little bit either way or a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U216	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U217	Dear Minister, When you introduced the draft, you asked the Riigikogu to deal with it quickly and to get a solution to the problems. Interested parties as they are. But this need for clarity in the house is still due to some localities in Estonia. At the same time, the coalition confirms that we have to deal with the drafts in a complex and comprehensive manner. This draft also includes a provision on public transport. But there are certainly other areas where something needs to be changed. I would like to touch on one of them: it is the obligation to provide postal services. There must be one post office, two mailboxes, etc. in a rural municipality or city. If four municipalities join, how will this regulation take place? Has this been discussed by the initiators of the bill, or will it have to be resolved after the law has been passed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U218	Here are two questions. You are talking about the provision of postal services. In my opinion, most postal services are provided directly to a person in his home country. When I get a letter, it usually comes home to me. If I've ordered a newspaper, they'll send it to my house. Nothing's gonna change about that. The second topic, which has received a great deal of attention, is the topic of post offices. Here's the thing. Post offices are where people go. I admit that in some municipalities, which are really very small, some post offices will probably be artificially kept open for a few hours a day just to show that it exists there. In the meantime, the person who delivers the mail goes to the post office and sits there for a couple of hours to make sure the law is complied with. I don't think that's a good solution in the end. When we talk about the merger of Viljandi municipalities, for example, what to deny, people still go to the post office in Viljandi city and not at the post office in their municipality. On our request, Saar Poll carried out an opinion survey, which was carried out among people who do not live in large cities. You will get to know the results of this study, see which public services are important to people and which are less important. The existence of a post office is certainly not one of the most important, I mean the rural population. This is not the most important service for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U219	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U220	Good minister! It was a pleasure to hear that you are willing to analyse this Article 1 from the point of view of what the administrative territory means. But I have another question. This is not about a specific draft, rather such a forward-looking way to behave. Have you also considered that, in the course of the accession process, the individual parts of the merging municipalities, or villagers, could be taken into account in the future if the council wanted to belong to a different municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U221	If you mean the municipalities that have initiated the accession process, we should not overly complicate it. The thing is, the villages with 1000 inhabitants are still very lonely, even though they are discussed. Unfortunately, I don't have the statistics available, but there may be five or four people in the village, and it's a very large territory. In essence, then, one family or family can begin to determine the destiny of a very large territory. In Soomaa, for example, the membership of a very large territory in one municipality or another can be decided by a very small number of people. I think it's generally necessary to maintain a sense of moderation. It is not worth putting everything into one sin, one is this accession process and the other is governed by the Administrative Division of the Estonian Territory Act. If administrative boundaries are to be changed, this is still possible from itself. We've come from this. In fact, this procedure once again leads to the government finally deciding on borders, and the question is whether the government wants to make a decision that the local council does not agree with. So far, we have not been able to make this kind of decision about the merger in the government. I don't even know how to predict we've had this kind of debate, so that if we decided to change the territory of one municipality so that the council of the municipality is against it, I don't know how popular this kind of activity would be. It's not a very simple question. But theoretically, there's a way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U222	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U223	Minister, thank you very much. As far as I know, as IRL and as your minister, you are in favour of compulsory mergers between municipalities and municipalities. Recently, you made a trip in Estonia where you introduced this idea. How comfortable do you feel as a minister when you need to introduce the political will of the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U224	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U225	This bill is certainly not the political will of one of the parties of the government union. That's what IRL's will is all about. This is a draft initiated by the IRL Minister, and we are certainly in favour of local governments being larger, as I have already said here. Of course, we would like the country's guiding role to be much more effective. I gave you an example of a small municipality in Võrumaa who would like to join someone. They say they want to join, but they can't do it because the neighbors don't want to join. I think this is not a good situation and we should sort it out somehow. All residents of Estonia have the right to live in a municipality where the fundamental rights of citizens are well guaranteed. This must not be just the privilege of part of the Estonian people. If that is the case, people change their place of residence, at least in the population register, because they see that better services are guaranteed in another place. This bill certainly expresses the will of the IRL, but surely the IRL would like to take a step forward and go further.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U226	Dear Minister, My question is as follows. It is stated in this law that local authorities with a common border may join, but it has also been said that one large local authority could be formed at the level of the county and that the current local authorities would remain municipalities. Has it not been discussed in the government that strong local governments would join one small local government over several municipalities? For example, Tallinn would take as its partner Misso municipality, the same little Võrumaa municipality. Thus, not one municipality would be formed, but one strong municipality and municipality would be formed. With exactly the same objective, we could work together, develop projects, Tallinn would send children to school, summer camp, economic and social development would be guaranteed, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U227	I'm very liberal about the merger, but I still don't have the guts to go as far as you're suggesting right now. I am, however, in favour of the fact that the law sets out certain criteria on the basis of which municipalities could join and to which compliance is assessed by both the municipalities and the Government of the Republic during the accession process. The government finally has to make that decision. I would point out that the government may not always make a yes or a positive decision, even if the will of the municipality to join exists. The law already in force contains ten elements which must be taken into account in the merger. I will read them quickly: it must take account of historical justification, the impact on the living conditions of the population, people's sense of cohesion, the impact on the quality of public services, the impact on administrative capacity, the impact on the demographic situation, the impact on the organisation of transport and communication, the impact on the business environment, the impact on the educational situation. The last, the tenth, was the integrity of the municipality so far, and now we are proposing a new wording: it must take into account the organisational functioning of the municipality as a single service area. So there must be a certain connection between the merging municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U228	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U229	Dear Minister, I'd like to make sure I get it right. In one of your answers, you have given an example that municipalities cannot join because there is a third municipality between them, they do not have a common border. And the 10th principle that has just been mentioned speaks of the need to take into account the same criterion. Is that really the case, or can it still be the other way around?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U230	Yes, the solution to the current draft is that the municipalities joining the continent must have a common border. I do not know whether such an example from continental Estonia is that there has been a very serious commitment to the discussions, although there has been a clear desire by the councils to join without a common border. We must, however, bear in mind the fact that we are operating in an organisational manner as a single area of service. In my opinion, in the case of Kõressaare and Kärdla, this criterion is fully met. But, yes, I don't know that there's been some serious desire to join the continent. I'd say I'm not so scared of these pieces. I actually agree with Inara Luis that up to a certain point we can think a little more freely. We have Narva in several pieces. It's generally not known, they think the city is compact, but actually it's made up of two parts. Kohtla-Järve is a well-known example. A very well-known municipality such as Harku Parish is also made up of two separate pieces and has not made life more difficult for anyone. We have several municipalities, where the parish house is located in the territory of another municipality, and it is not very deaf that the local government is therefore far from the citizen. When Viljandi municipalities merge, it is said very seriously that the government of the new merged municipality must be located in the city. Rather, it is wanted and considered right, rather than condemned. So in this sense, you don't always have to be afraid of pieces of separation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U231	Siim Kabrits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U232	Minister, thank you very much. I will give an example of a real intention to join in Mulgimaa. The city of Tõrva proposed to the municipality of Helme and the municipality of Põdrala to join. There was also a human interview. 70% of people in the municipality of Mõdrala and Tõrva City supported accession, including local government leaders. 70% of the population in Helme municipality opposed. The local government leaders did not support the merger there either, and so the merger was canceled. According to the new draft, could the city of Tõrva and the municipality of Põdrala join, even though there is no common border between the borders of just over 10 kilometres?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U233	Can Tõrva and Helme join us? A good example indeed, I must admit. On the basis of the draft we are discussing today, they would not be able to join if Moose was not in the gang.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U234	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U235	I would like to give an example from Ida-Virumaa: take Kohtla-Järve. If I'm not mistaken, there are six different areas. I do not know whether this is right or not, but it is understandable that it is quite costly for the municipality to support this whole conglomerate. But my question is this: what limit could the power of the central government reach? Why would I ask that? Because in its time, when the administrative reform was in progress and the municipalities and the local government had fulfilled all the conditions, I'm talking about Ida-Viru County now, everything was still stuck, because the government refused to take into account the will of IVOL and the local governments. However, the conditions were all fulfilled.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U236	Unfortunately, I don't know exactly what you're referring to. I can't comment on that. If it was a wish for accession, I believe the government has so far supported the accessions and also supported the alliances of local governments. Unfortunately, I can't comment. I don't know about this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U237	We are now very likely to move from Ida-Virumaa to West Saaremaa. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U238	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Over the years, you have expressed your views on the optimal number of local governments in Estonia and supported their relatively small number. In the current situation, where several mergers have already taken place and are taking place, what do you think would be the ideal number of local administrative units? Can you say that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U239	In my opinion, the ideal picture is that there could be one municipality in smaller counties. Of course, things are different in the counties. There is certainly a different situation in Ida-Virumaa than in Harju County. But when we are talking about balancing, it is very important to take into account that the population flow is moving just towards Harjumaa. There are very large municipalities in Harju County. It is often said that Harjumaa has a good strategic location, but we are not particularly drawn to the fact that there are 18,000 inhabitants, 14000 inhabitants, 12000 inhabitants. Now put this population in the context of a few smaller counties! What does that mean? It is clear that these so-called small municipalities would also be huge in South-East Estonia. Such inequality is, in my opinion, the main problem. It certainly does not make sense to resolve this inequality so that we are going to cut up Harjumaa municipalities terribly. It is smarter to balance the situation by increasing the number of municipalities in South-East Estonia. In my opinion, the ideal picture would be if there were one municipality in the smaller counties, there could be more of them in the larger counties, and the larger cities could generally be separate. But I also understand what reality is like. I just remembered that I forgot to answer one question to the other. This question was how many county development plans reflect this problem. They reflect to a very different extent, in some places not at all. The development plan of Põlva County states that there will be two centres of attraction: Põlva and Räpina. And on the other hand, there are two municipalities in Põlva County. I think this is a huge step forward. Even if there are four municipalities, it has also been very good compared to the current picture. The Latvians also say that perhaps they could have made their reform a little more radical, but they still took a very big step forward. Even if the number of municipalities falls two or three times, this is also a major step forward. I would like to point out once again that half of the municipalities in Estonia are smaller than 1800 inhabitants. If we say that, for example, 2000 inhabitants could be the rational size of the municipality, it does not seem too bad, but for most Estonian municipalities this would mean joining, because most of our municipalities are so small.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U240	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U241	Good Minister, I'd like to clarify a little bit. Siim Kabrits asked if it would be possible to join if someone was out of the way. In fact, the amendment to § 9 (5) is that if someone opts out of the accession process, the procedure will only be closed in respect of him or her, the other accession process will continue. In fact, a minor amendment should be made to this draft, so that there should not be a common border, because the merger has already been initiated.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U242	Now that the merger of Tõrva, Helme and Mõdrala has failed because of Helme, the other two have not entered into new negotiations as far as I know. If your compromise proposal finds the support of the majority of the Riigikogu, I have no objection to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U243	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U244	Minister, thank you very much. It was also about separating villages, but I have a different question. We are talking here about mergers and quite large municipalities that may arise, but as regional minister, have you thought about giving the village elders a bigger role? In this case, the rural municipality government is likely to distance the people, but the village community might be strengthened by this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U245	That's a good question! First, what's the big one? I still do not see the emergence of very large authorities at first, even in the accession procedures that are under way. In my opinion, for many of Estonia's small municipalities, joining would mean giving more opportunity to the village societies and village elders. Let us be honest, in many places the municipality is so small that the mayor is actually doing the work of the village elder. If the municipality were somewhat larger, the head of the municipality could deal with more serious issues and leave it at first level calmly organised by civil society, or village societies, and village elders. They'd have room for action and more oxygen there. Now, if there's a parish elder on two villages, it's like there's no room for a village elder to operate in. In this respect, I very much agree. The function of the village elder in Estonia was regulated very precisely by law before the war and occupation. There were very precise provisions, including my favorite provision, or the most interesting provision for me, that the mayor should preferably be a man. There were other interesting provisions that responded to the spirit of their era, but at that time the village elder was clearly like a representative of the state in the village. This role was completely different. Now we have village elders and village societies with clear representatives of the civil society. I have asked the village elders at the events in Kodukand, for example, if they would like the law to regulate their role, and if so, how should it be done? So far, the answers of village elders and village societies have been rather that they do not want it. They do not want the law to lay down their rights very precisely, because when the rights come, the obligations will also come to the end of this is inevitable. Rather, such a very voluntary, self-creating and self-responsibility structure has been advocated. It's been that way so far. I have also told them that if they wish to introduce their rights more clearly, we are ready to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U246	Good colleagues, any more questions? No, it's not. Good Minister, thank you for your report and for giving me answers. No further questions. Aivar Koka, Vice-Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee, please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U247	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the draft law 352 in two sessions. The first meeting took place on 22 January, with the Regional Minister and Legal Adviser Olivia Telle and Advisor Ave Viks, from the Ministry of the Interior, who presented the draft. There was a very close debate on the content of the draft. There were a number of questions that have been heard in this hall in the last hour. The most acute issue was that if the islands were allowed to join without having a common border, would it not be the same thing to allow the continent as well? The second issue was whether or not the boundaries of the accession regions, which were approved in 2004, were in the way of history. And thirdly, we discussed the accession process, for example, whether the villages have any right to decide whether or not they want to join a large rural municipality. For the second time, the draft was discussed on 29 January. Then Pärt's parish elder Erich Palm and Olivia Taltud and Ave Viks from the Ministry of the Interior were invited. The parish elder gave an overview of his experience in connection with the accession process. According to him, as early as 1996, thoughts and actions were brought to fruition, but the reality has only come to fruition in 2013. Unfortunately, the law of the Republic of Estonia has fallen behind in time, and if you look at the current law, it is not possible to complete the accession process. The Commission took four decisions: to appoint me as rapporteur for the 352th draft, to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session by 30 January, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 17 February. All decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U248	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I thank the waitress! I'm opening negotiations. Priit Sibula, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U249	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The administrative reform and related issues have been addressed for many years. IRL has proposed more different versions than I could read. Unfortunately, we have not succeeded in this area, which we could enjoy. I was young enough when Minister Nature came up with his plan. This is what my party associates did in the Parts government, and we are working on it today. And both I and the party have no idea that we can save administrative or administrative costs in this move. That is certainly not the main objective. But if these steps were to lead to cost savings, it would be positive in every way. We need a clear and meaningful approach to regional policy. Only with a clear understanding will we be able to maintain life and jobs in rural areas. The consequences of volunteering and marginalisation so far are also reflected in the results of the census and now there is nothing more to be done than to deal with the consequences. If we do not just want to deal with the consequences of the next round, then we should make changes. Yesterday, a new basic school and upper secondary school law was discussed in the Committee on Culture, and this morning the IRL Group met with the Minister for Education and Science to discuss this issue. The main reason we are dealing with this is the fact that the demographic situation has changed dramatically, the school network and the content of education have unfortunately not caught up with it. Every owner, or municipality, feels that he is still holding up, and so are many other issues. Thus, in trying to solve problems in quite a number of areas, we are just dealing with the consequences of an unimplemented administrative reform. What cannot be done on the ground will later be done centrally so that we live a little more according to the ability of the taxpayer. Transport is already being dealt with more centrally, with one paragraph in this draft. But yes, as the Minister has already said, we will probably have to continue to address this issue in this Chamber and perhaps in a broader way. If you say anything else about a specific draft, this bill is necessary to take down obstacles to those who really want to join. The rural municipalities around Viljandi are good and it is reasonable to remove their obstacles. However, it is clear that this absolute volunteering that we have chosen so far does not lead to the desired goal. At one point, the Riigikogu will have to make a decision that will rescue the entire local government from behind the stump of the world. The state must not be mere bystanders. Local life is really better promoted by the locals, but we need to create opportunities for them to do so. There are no such options at the moment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U250	Thank you. Now I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Kalev Kotkas for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U251	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats are still in favour of administrative reform. And if the logic of administrative reform requires it, the administrative-territorial division must also be changed. But all these changes must be made in the light of meaningful goals. The bill 352 makes the picture of administrative arrangements even more confusing and shows that the government does not have any comprehensive understanding of Estonia's future administrative arrangements. Now we can also get municipalities made up of several separate pieces along with very large and tiny municipalities. All these formations are becoming increasingly difficult to classify under the common name'municipality'. There is a strong impression that the anarchy of the current administration is an end in itself. The government is waiting for the situation at municipal level to become absurd enough to say: see, it didn't come out voluntarily, now we are going to do the administrative-territorial reform by order. Today, we did not get a clear and one answer to the question of why island municipalities are being exempted from joining without having a common border. That this is a compromise is not the answer to the question why it is being allowed. With this opening of Pandora's box, we create conditions for joining Kihnu and Ruhnu, for example, theoretically also for joining Vormsi and Piirissaare. The long-standing April joke of Emmaste parish, which was proposed to Leisi parish in Saaremaa to make the Strait of Soela the inland sea of the future parish, is soon practically possible. I understand the Minister of Regional Affairs in some ways. If you've been in office for five years, I'd like to show you something. But the Riigikogu must not be put in an embarrassing position when it comes to the result. At present, the Riigikogu is a service provider or service provider. If the Head of Government complains to the Minister that you see, terribly want to join, but we are not neighbors, make an exception to the law, then, in the name of a small victory, you should not rush to come to the Riigikogu with a legislative amendment, but also look at the big picture. The Riigikogu must not work on the principle of a pizza bar where everyone orders what he or she likes at the moment. Unfortunately, the issue of administrative reform continues to be treated in a non-systematic way. However, the abolition of accession regions in itself is reasonable, as circumstances have changed in the meantime. That is also why we are not proposing to reject this draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U252	Thank you. Any more calls? I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 352 amendments. February 7th at 5 p.m. The first reading of the draft act and the sixth item on the agenda are closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U253	We will move on to the seventh item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on vocational training institutions initiated by the Government of the Republic. I am pleased to ask the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo for a speech chair in the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U254	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! So the draft law on vocational training institutions. This draft is a completely new law which replaces the law on vocational training institutions, which entered into force in 1998. Several new initiatives have been proposed at both EU and Estonian level, the implementation of which also means modernising vocational education and training. That's why we need a new law. The draft law is based directly on the development plan of the Estonian Vocational Education System approved by the Government of the Republic 2009 to 2013 and takes into account the recommendations of other sectoral development plans, such as the Competitiveness Plan "Estonia 2020" and the European Union's Vocational Education Act, such as the European Qualifications Framework, the Quality Assurance Reference Framework for Vocational Education, the Vocational Education Accounting Point. The main proposals and innovations requested by this law are as follows: Significantly more attention is being paid to the level of teaching and its continuing improvement. In vocational education, employers and professional associations have successfully tested in-depth quality assessment, i.e. accreditation, under which the school will be given the right to conduct studies in the curriculum group in the future. The scheme to be enforced by law replaces the current relatively formal system of training permits, which covers only private and municipal vocational training institutions. Thus, feedback at the level of vocational training becomes more substantial and more inclusive to the social partners. A vocational education institution that has successfully passed accreditation will in future be able to give its graduates an invitation. Explanation: The invitation is the professional competence of a person certified by the competent institution, which is essentially a certificate of human skills and quality. This is a fundamental breakthrough compared to today's situation where the school can only give its graduates an educational certificate but not a professional qualification. While, at present, the adoption of professional examinations and the award of the invitation are relatively separate from the teaching process, which is dealt with by the awarding bodies, schools of recognised level can do so themselves. With this renewal, we would introduce a system that works in all developed countries, where the completion of vocational training institutions will receive an invitation. The content of vocational training also concerns the next major legislative amendment, which could be summarised as making vocational training more practical, flexible and more in line with employers' expectations. Upon the entry into force of the Act, a new system of vocational education curricula and types of studies will be introduced, which will have a closer link to the Estonian Qualifications Framework and the professional standards that are located in it. This will ensure even better coherence of vocational training with the world of work and increase the practicality of learning. At the same time, there will be increased flexibility to draw up curricula in an operational manner in order to better respond to the needs of employers and learners, since in the future not all curricula will have to be based solely on national curricula. Vocational education should be able to provide an affordable learning opportunity for all learners. Therefore, vocational training may take place in the future in the Estonian Qualifications Framework 2. The level of education, i.e. training, can be of very different complexity. In this way, learners with special needs should find suitable learning opportunities in 2nd or even 3rd level vocational training and applicants for more complex qualifications at 4th and 5th level. Vocational training at level 5 of the Estonian Qualifications Framework deserves special attention. This will once again give priority to the training of middle-level specialists and managers, as well as technicians and technologists. These are officials who have been known to need a keen need in the labour market for years. In order to increase learning flexibility, it will also be possible to complete studies with a part of the evidence of formal qualifications if part of the curriculum is to be completed in the future, allowing for a shorter period of study to reach the labour market. In order to make the education system more flexible and to value substantive and not just formal competences, it will be possible to pursue secondary vocational education in the future without basic education, but for people aged 22 years and over who are ready to do so and with the necessary knowledge and skills. On the basis of the higher education strategy until 2015, teaching in vocational education institutions will be completed in 2016 according to the curricula of applied higher education. This concerns only two vocational schools, Tallinn School of Economics and Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre. The transition is planned to be smooth, with a transition period of three years. All graduates of these two schools of applied higher education can complete their studies at the current school. New curricula for technicians and mid-level specialists are being developed in accordance with qualification level 5 instead of the current level 6 curricula of the Estonian Qualifications Framework. For several years in Vocational Education, the development of teaching materials in Estonian for students in Russian and the training of Russian-speaking teachers have been taking place. Now, like general education, it has been decided to set deadlines and requirements for the transition to secondary education in Estonian. This applies only to vocational upper secondary education programmes, where by 2020 at least 60% of the studies must take place in Estonian. As has already been said, the work has been done in this direction for years, and the deadline set leaves sufficient time for schools, teachers and students to prepare for changes in depth. It should be stressed that secondary education should be treated on a uniform basis. On this basis, it is logical to submit the same requirements for the language of instruction in upper secondary vocational education as in general secondary education. The Act also seeks innovations with regard to teachers in vocational training institutions. More is expected to teach the masters of their field. Unlike so far, the qualification requirements for teachers working in vocational training institutions are laid down in the VET Act and the content of the requirements is based on the professional standard of a vocational teacher or teacher. This will allow for a much more flexible use of practitioners, masters of their field, as teachers in vocational training institutions. When the law is implemented, the current qualification of teachers to determine grades will be abolished and replaced by the self-assessment of teachers, which must also be feedbacked at school. The teacher's compliance with qualification requirements will be assessed by the school manager. There is also a desire to make the rules on teacher working time and remuneration more flexible. The remuneration of the teacher's work is based on a position that includes all the duties of the teacher, not just the classes given to students in the classroom. This innovation takes a step forward with changes in general education. In conclusion, the entry into force of the new VET Act provides the legal basis for fundamental innovations in both vocational education and the linking of vocational education and training systems. In implementing the Act, we accompany the innovations in vocational education and training in Europe and lay the foundations for continuing improvements in the quality and relevance of vocational education and training in Estonia. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U255	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U256	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I am disturbed by Article 29 of the Law, 'Language of Study'. You talked about it a lot. Yesterday I watched with interest how many students are studying today in vocational schools in Ida-Virumaa, a little over 3000. I looked at how much she learns in Estonian at 15%. Once again, I would like to ask you to clarify what has been done so far by the Ministry or what is going to be done to make sure that by 2018 we have a good language of instruction.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U257	I guess it's about two sides, first the students, and second the teachers. You should probably start with the students. We have had a re-independence country for 20 years, and I think that during that time we have been able to build a basic education system that provides sufficient knowledge of the national language. This is the most basic input, the parameter from which we have switched to 60% in upper secondary schools for education in the national language, and we can actually do so in the vocational education system. As for teaching, teaching tools, we now have more teaching tools in Estonian than we do in Russian, repeating more! The third issue relates to the qualifications of teachers. Here, too, it can be said that those who work as teachers after the completion of some educational institutions have a much better knowledge of Estonian than those who had in previous years, where we relied largely on teachers who were educated in the Soviet period, who, as we know very well, were not encouraged to acquire the Estonian language, were rather limited to the knowledge of Russian, and the fruits of which we still taste. Of course, in very many cases, the problems are real, in that sense we do not make illusions. We also saw this in high school. These efforts, which have been made over the last three years in connection with the transition to upper secondary schools, have been a direct support for both schools and teachers, and this has been a very big job. We will not be able to escape with less effort in the case of vocational training institutions. The overall volume is more or less the same, in terms of teachers and pupils, more or less the same: 20,000 to 30000 pupils, and proportionally, the corresponding number of teachers. There is nothing out of reach, given the transition period until 2020, i.e. seven years, is not. I think we can handle this task. The following is not a minor factor, I think, in the end it is the most important one either. Proficiency in the national language, including the knowledge of the specialized language, is an essential prerequisite for professional qualifications and competitiveness when we look at the future job in the Republic of Estonia. That's what most employers think, that's what most employees think. If you add to this the Russian language skills of children from Russian-speaking families, I believe that we will gradually reduce or close the gap that prevails in the Republic of Estonia in terms of both average income and unemployment. Ida-Viru County is a very good example and region. I believe that this step will also significantly improve future prospects for professional learners in the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U258	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U259	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The draft relates to the fact that VET centres should no longer provide professional higher education. At the same time, we know that educational institutions have been searching for their borders and their fields of activity throughout the educational landscape. Thus, vocational education has spread itself towards higher education through the provision of professional higher education and, in the same way, higher education has spread itself towards vocational education through the provision of professional higher education. Does this principle that vocational education should not provide professional higher education really mean that higher education should also not provide professional higher education, so that professional higher education, as such, should disappear from there at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U260	Here are two questions in one package. First of all, when we think about the qualifications framework we talked about, it has eight levels. If you start from the top to bottom, the eightth level of qualification would correspond to a doctorate in a broader sense, not only in academic terms, but would indeed correspond to the highest level of qualification in a particular profession or profession. Next, level seven is the master's level in thick lines. This requires more or less 12+5 years, or 17 years of nominal study. This master's degree does not necessarily mean that there should be a master's degree in graduate education; this qualification at seventh level may also have been acquired in other ways. The sixth level is currently applied higher education and undergraduate studies, three to four years of study in higher education. True, it has two branches of the Bachelor's and Applied Higher Education. In this sense, Estonia is among the so-called dual higher education systems, where such a distinction is made. Let's say the global trend is that the first degree of higher education, i.e. the bachelor's degree and the degree of applied higher education, gradually converge. This distinction is likely to disappear in Estonia as well. However, it exists now, and how quickly it disappears is a question of its own. However, the sixth degree of education is very clearly separated and the sixth degree of vocational qualification is included in higher education. So the top three qualifications are higher education. If you come down from there, the fifth step is what we didn't have for a long time, that's what the Soviets used to be. There is a need for such qualifications. In particular, Vocational Education Centre in Võrumaa and related employers, it is also clear that the need is precisely for level five education and not for level six education. So in this sense, the Vocational Education Centre in Võrumaa would essentially not become anything, or the content of the education would remain what it is now. The assessment of the transition to Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre was also exactly that. In academic terms, the content of this education does not meet the requirements for higher education. So I don't see any substantial educational tension in this decision, but, well, we understand that in a formal sense some right is being taken away, the right to issue higher education diplomas, even though those who are currently studying there can stop. But let's think about the alternative. If, now, we in the country still continue to accept that vocational schools provide a higher education diploma, it cannot be the exclusive privilege of Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre, it must then extend to all vocational training institutions. We now have 30 colleges, and most people think that there are too many of them rather than too few. The creation of 30 more educational institutions, which provide higher education diplomas, is certainly not reasonable. It is very difficult for me to imagine, to imagine, the need for new higher education institutions. I would call on you to look at this issue in such a way that it is not that a very good vocational education must be called higher education. Vocational education can be a very good vocational education without having a higher education diploma. A very good fireplace builder doesn't necessarily have to be a doctorate in fireplace construction or take a university course. It is such a formal inflation and I think we should avoid it. As far as Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre is concerned, this change certainly does not mean a reduction in the number of study places. There could be more places to study in Võrumaa, and that is why we are also trying to change the national training order. Secondly, this certainly does not mean a change in funding, the money that is now going to Vocational Education Centre in Võrumaa must remain there and grow together with the overall increase in VET funding. And there is a pretty clear signal here that if we have disproportations to finance different levels of education, then the least of all is the financing of vocational education. We have carried out reforms and we have very effective educational institutions, and that is why it has been possible to save money, but the fact that we have lower costs for a student in vocational education than in general education is still unprecedented; it must certainly change.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U261	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U262	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, In answer to Mr Korb's question regarding the language of instruction, you spoke very convincingly that employers are also interested in their employees speaking Estonian. Has the Ministry also contacted employers' representatives and can you name a company in which employers complain that the young professionals who come to work for them speak a faulty Estonian language and cannot work in their welding or metalworks?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U263	I cannot name a particular company to you, and I certainly have not negotiated these negotiations personally, but I can tell you that there are very serious problems with the knowledge of the national language in the Estonian Defence Forces. The Estonian Defence Forces are forced to undertake further language training and this situation is hardly different in other institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U264	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U265	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I have a question from a slightly different area, but in this same direction. A few years ago, the Committee on Culture discussed that if our vocational education develops, our eastern neighbour would be interested in sending his students here and then our vocational education would perhaps start raising money, not just spending money. I understand that this language change, these demands practically shut down that direction. Did I get it right that this interest is no longer taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U266	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U267	I don't know if this is going to go completely down. I guess the question is the same for universities. In universities, we have both Estonian-language programmes and foreign-language programmes. What's that supposed to mean? In particular, this is the kind of learning whose output is aimed at the Estonian market. In the Estonian labour market, knowledge of the national language and the professional Estonian language is definitely necessary. But your attention is right. I think that if you look at this in such a key and if there are substantive obstacles to launching such programmes in Estonia, you should definitely consider this place and introduce the necessary improvements. But above all, this change is related to Estonian labour market-oriented learning.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U268	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will in some ways continue to ask the previous speaker about the language of instruction. As we know, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act provides that the language of upper secondary school education is Estonian, but in exceptional cases the government may allow the use of a second language at upper secondary school level on request. This could also concern the question raised by Mr Efendiev. In this bill, we see no exceptions. The draft law simply states that the language of instruction in the curriculum of vocational secondary education is Estonian and does not provide for any exceptions. Why has this draft been drawn up on the basis of a different principle and concept than the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U269	I think such a solution has been proposed on the basis of the experience gained by the Upper Secondary School Act, where the use of various legal structures seeks to circumvent the political decision that middle-level learning is in the national language, or in the Estonian language of the Republic of Estonia. As far as teaching in other languages is concerned, just as the government has made an exception to German Gymnasium, for example, I would be pleased, as I have repeatedly emphasised, if such an agreement could also be concluded with the Russian Federation. This possibility, if you do not read it from the current text of the bill, could certainly also be in vocational training institutions, not to mention higher education institutions, where I think it works quite well.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U270	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U271	Thank you. Dear Minister, I ask about Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre and professional higher education. If professional higher education is now placed at the level of the fifth professional category, as I understand it, how does the employer know the difference? After all, there is lifelong learning, and if, for example, the unemployed acquire some kind of profession through learning, how does the employer understand who is a qualified employee, where is the limit? How does the employer feel about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U272	I guess that's what it says in the professional standards that the Chamber of Professionals is working on together with employers. The professional standard states what competence should be at level one, level two, level three, level four, level eight. Well, that depends a little bit, obviously teachers have a bit of the same competences and welders have a little different competencies. But since this standard has been developed in cooperation with employers, I believe that it meets real needs, and that is why the employer is getting a clearer picture. For example, if we had so far vocational education and training programmes such as post-secondary vocational education, post-secondary vocational and post-secondary vocational education and training, and they were not linked to qualifications, employers were indeed unclear as to what vocational qualifications this education corresponds to. With the law we are discussing, we are trying to make this compliance as good as possible. As far as Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre is concerned, employers are not really interested in whether education is called higher education, secondary education or technic education, but want to have employees with rather clear functions. In this respect, we have a fairly common understanding with employers that it corresponds to the fifth level of professional qualifications. And the fifth level of vocational qualification in terms of level education is again not a higher education, but a tech education, as we know for decades in Estonia. I have not noticed that we have a substantive conflict here, but of course it is formal. We know that the public's assessment of higher education or the reputation of higher education is higher than that of vocational education, which is regrettable. In my opinion, we should do everything together to ensure that good vocational education has the same reputation as higher education. Poor higher education must not have a better reputation than good vocational education.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U273	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U274	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I have to say, I don't think you answered my last question. I understand you don't know much about employers. As far as the Defence Forces are concerned, I believe that this is a single real integration mechanism in the Estonian state, all the rest are not really working. But that's it. That deadline, 2020. How do you intend to achieve this objective? How much is it going to cost, and is there some kind of plan that so many substances every year? What's it gonna look like in practice? At the moment, it is a reminder of the political objective or of the implicit promise that this goal needs to be achieved, but how, is it not clear, and I do not read it in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U275	First of all, the law. It is not reasonable to write practical steps into the law. I do not think that the law needs to resolve the organisational issues of executive power, and most of these tasks need to be resolved at school level. What should the state do? The state should create a general framework, the most important part of which is the framework provided by law. So if there is no law, there can be no plan. Now for the plans. For the transition we have, as has already been said, seven years. For three or four years, it has been systematically dealt with. All new curricula that we are developing must also be equipped with educational material. What will be the national training order? It needs to be amended year by year according to how support can be provided to specific vocational training institutions to ensure the transition. Most importantly, once again, it is up to us to ensure that the level of national language proficiency of some graduates in primary school is not acceptable. In my opinion, there must be a much more determined approach here to the management of these schools and to the schoolteachers. If schoolchildren have not been able to guarantee an acceptable state language, mathematics or chemistry within 20 years, something needs to be done about their school arrangements. Bringing constantly, decades on the pretext that nothing can be done, I think it is not justified. So these plans have been taken into account, also taking into account the resources of the Structural Funds. How much exactly is it going to cost? Probably 2 to 3% of the isolation for vocational education, which is not such a large amount that it should be worried about at the level of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U276	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U277	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I would ask about the financing of vocational education in the light of this bill. This draft law must have been in the Ministry for quite some time, and one reason might have been that the changes in funding were important both for vocational education and for the educational landscape. How much will the financing of vocational education and training change in connection with the implementation of this law? It's probably gonna have to grow. How much does it have to grow, and what funds should this amount come at?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U278	First of all, your line that the law stood in the ministry. He didn't stand there, the Ministry of Education and Research worked out the law. The truth is that I saw the first version almost a year ago, but I do not think that, in that form, the draft was yet mature enough to move forward towards modern, open and European vocational education and training arrangements with, above all, less bureaucracy. If you ask for my personal opinion, if I expect anything from the Riigikogu, these are also steps aimed at reducing bureaucratic restrictions in this law. Unfortunately, our education life has been overly bureaucratized, putting a huge non-pedagogical and non-educational burden on all levels. But that's it. As regards the financing of vocational education, i.e. where appropriate vocational education is financed, almost entirely from the state budget. I do not think there is any reason to include business money in addition to the tax burden they bear. Could we increase or increase the contribution of the private sector through learners, too, in my opinion, this proposal is not very sensible. So the fundamental choice is to finance it from the state budget. Where the money should come from in the state budget, you know that. It's still tax. We very much hope that this policy, which has been consistently pursued by the Estonian Government in recent years, will continue in the future in an effort to keep education spending at 7% of GDP. If we are able to do so, it will also be possible to find money for vocational education at 7% of this reasonable educational organisation. However, the proportion of vocational education and training could increase. If you ask me what to grow at, I would say that all other areas of education are better funded than vocational education. Make your conclusions from here! I'm not going to tell you how much money should be taken away from which university, but the balance point should shift. It is quite clear that there could also be more students in vocational education and training. After all, we have a real problem that 30% of the young people entering the labour market have no vocational training whatsoever. Every third! And where else do they get this professional qualification, if not from a vocational institute or a university of higher education. I do not think it makes sense to further increase the admission of higher education institutions, so the number of vocational students should be increased in order to have more people with some qualifications. If there is an increase in the number of students, then there must certainly be a proportional increase in funding. I therefore think that the structural changes that are going to happen in vocational education are the biggest in terms of funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U279	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U280	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Would you like to comment on a certain contradiction that we have noted when discussing this draft in the Committee on Culture. The explanatory memorandum states that one of the objectives of the new law is to make the management of a vocational training institution more collegiate. At the same time, we also have the PGS, where on the contrary, efforts are being made to increase the Director's rights and responsibilities. It seemed as if these drafts had come from two different ministries. Or is it the ministry's reasoned opinion that, in the case of vocational training institutions, it is currently too authoritarian and too collegial in the case of ordinary institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U281	I'd start with that last confrontation that's too authoritarian and too collegiate. I don't see that kind of pressure. However, I do think that the assessment that both de facto and de jure are greater than the directors of general education institutions is adequate. And if that is the case, and the Ministry of Education feels that way to me too, then their convergence is reasonable, and this understanding is also the contradiction that I do not see. I just see that we are moving towards a common goal from two different directions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U282	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U283	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, One small remark on the labour market. You remember, the media wrote quite a lot about this, that if there was a problem with welders in the field of ship repair in Estonia, they had to be brought here from Ukraine. The language question was the last thing in this case, it was necessary to get a professor. But when we talk about what we are discussing now, I have this question. Have you discussed this trend that at the moment these Russian-speaking young people, whose Estonian is in some ways, say, weaker, are not going to upper secondary school. If their Estonian language is stronger, they will go to upper secondary school. The structure of young people is practically changing. I am not talking about emigration in Ida-Virumaa, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U284	I understand the question. Indeed, it can be seen that VET institutions have a higher proportion of graduates in Russian-speaking comprehensive schools than statistical data suggest. There's a certain preference. Is this because of the level of knowledge of the national language? Let's say there could be, I don't have any evidence-based statement on that. However, I am in this mind, and I do not think that this has come from an empty point of view, that the main focus should not be diverted from the central issue. If we have a language problem, a national language problem, this problem must be solved at comprehensive school level. Actually, I should start with kindergarten. That, in its time, a different approach was chosen, I don't think it was the smartest. But today we are in a situation where all the language issues that arise should be sought for roots, and this root is not in higher education, vocational school or upper secondary school, but in primary school and, in many cases, in kindergarten. So once again: we have taken this issue seriously and I think that by spring of this year I will receive feedback on the level of national language learning. This level is unfortunately different in primary schools. There are schools where it can be said that there is almost no problem. There are schools where, however, this education has not been unacceptably effective to a large extent. I find it very hard to believe that the core of the problem is that there are talented children in one place and there are more talented children in another. That's a schoolwork question! And whatever the reason, in any particular case there may be a different reason, should deal with it. We say that it is possible to switch to Estonian-language education in vocational training institutions within seven years, and this is not an overachievement. I think we are trying to address and solve the problem of national language learning in primary school at both the Ministry and the Riigikogu level.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U285	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U286	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned such a word set as 'the reputation of vocational education'. In my experience, however, the image of vocational education has improved considerably over the years. The issue, however, concerns the abandonment of vocational training institutions, which is said to be quite high in percentage terms. At a young age, choices may not always get one hundred percent right at the first time, which is quite natural. Does this law help to ensure that these people can still find the right profession and receive their education in a vocational training establishment?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U287	The problem has been quite rightly perceived here, and we also tried to take this issue into account in the preparation of the VET Act. A little more broadly, this relates to a subject such as vocational and career counselling, and this is not a narrow problem for vocational training institutions. It is not well organised in Estonia. I very much hope that this law on vocational training institutions, at least as it is planned and as it is written, will contribute to solving the problem of loss. Firstly, curricula should now be more practical and more labour market oriented. Life shows that in the case of curricula aimed at teaching practical skills, the dropout rate is generally lower. If the curriculum has grown apart or detached from life, there is no sense of practical output and therefore it is easier to give up. The second step that has been taken, and which I pointed out, is that even if the entire task is not achieved, i.e. three or three and a half years of post-primary education, and, for example, in two years' time, some kind of partial qualification is obtained. It is a slightly lower level of qualification, not the fourth or fifth level, but, for example, the third level, but it is still some kind of real professional qualification. Last but not least, this law also provides for the possibility that, as a pilot project, we would like to experiment in the coming years, that the upper secondary school and the vocational training institution will act as a single institution. This would allow for more flexible planning of middle-level education, both in cases where at one point more academic upper secondary school education is overachieved and vocationally oriented education is sought rather than vice versa. This would allow flexibility within a single educational establishment. So certain instruments are, but the most important thing is to strengthen the vocational and career guidance system, which should certainly be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U288	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U289	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You have reached where I begin my question in response to Mrs Tiidus. When we discussed the basic school and upper secondary school law in the previous Riigikogu, while you were head of another very important ministry, there was one of our political groups and also my proposal to introduce secondary education into one law. In response, it was said that the VET law was still being implemented. We're both on the table tonight. As your minister in the field, have you dreamed, or do you dream of the Riigikogu putting these two together, though with certain specialities, and we can get to the level laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U290	I would say that sometimes I dream about it, but I also try to take practical steps on this issue. This concerns the broader issue of the Education Code. I have said from this chair and I am saying today that the Education Act is probably one of the few framework laws in the area that dates back to pre-constitutional times. The new concept of the Education Code, which is basically structured by level law, will be completed by spring, or at least this is the current concept. Whether, in the end, there will be one law, say, the general part of the Education Act, and the special parts would be the Early Childhood Education Act, the Basic Education Act, the Secondary Education Act and the Higher Education Act, or not, is indicated by the time, but by spring there will certainly be a concept. It took a little longer than I wanted, I was hoping it would be ready for Christmas. Now we have to wait until Midsummer, and then we can put them together. If today you take the PGS and the Vocational Training Institution Act on the table side by side and try to make one law in the Riigikogu, I am afraid that this is objectively simply too much. There are too many questions of principle that have been resolved differently. But when the framework of the Education Act comes behind me, I think it will be possible to put together this code within three years. The first step is to discuss this concept, which you could certainly do in the Committee on Culture. At this point, it would be too big a bite. Framework law or, let's say, the general part of the Education Code first.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U291	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U292	Thank you. If one of the previous speakers asked about the drop-out of VET students, I would ask that a considerable number of young people do not even enter the VET institution or enter upper secondary school. In a good case, they remain in primary education, sometimes without basic education or even without Estonian education at all. If we look at research, we can talk less and less about competitiveness in the labour market for such people, given that jobs where basic education is enough are still falling and decreasing in 21st century Europe. Here's my question. Do you agree in principle that basic education is an inadequate level of education in 21st century Europe and, in this light, should we not think about raising the overall obligation to attend schools and education?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U293	Let us start by saying that, for quite objective reasons, many children do not complete basic education in the volume of the national curriculum, but only in the volume of the simplified curriculum, not to mention the volume of the subsistence or care curriculum. There are objective reasons why some children will inevitably remain at this level of basic education. I understand that the question is that we should not have compulsory secondary education. After all, we have had compulsory secondary education in this territory. Whether this compulsory secondary education also essentially guaranteed better qualifications, I doubt that. I think that, objectively, we have no reason to believe that this formal requirement would in itself guarantee a higher level of qualification. But it is clear that the preparation for working life should be longer than just nine, ten, eleven, twelve years. The average number of school years has increased and it is likely that in the coming years the formal requirement for secondary education will continue to grow, but I am afraid that this step will be formalised without substantial work. Rather, we are making an effort in substance than making a formal change, which we are going to implement superficially in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U294	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U295	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will ask another question, perhaps as extensive as that. Looking at the rather short history of our vocational education, I must say that the country has not been the best host. He may have renovated these schools, but flexibility and rapid response to cope with the labour market has often been precisely the case that the school has become quite successful despite the efforts of the state. We have improved, but such a great dream that the school could have some other form of ownership has not disappeared from the draft working group either. As a minister, would you support the Riigikogu to consider a foundation formed in cooperation between the private sector, the state and local government as one of the options of ownership?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U296	This assessment that vocational schools have been approved despite the efforts of the state, be on your conscience. Well, it's one of those beautiful fish mugs, but I think it's actually both meaningless and unfair. Propose that we're going to make foundations. What do we essentially achieve with this? Will we get better faculty, more money, or will this institution become more flexible in the sense that it will better meet the requirements of the labour market? I don't seem to see it. I have repeatedly called on you to see that we have not written too much bureaucracy into the law. Now it seems to me that some people have the solution that we are making more bureaucracy in the country and then heroically looking for ways to circumvent this bureaucracy in real life, creating foundations where freedom and flexibility should seem more. I would not rule this out, we have, for example, the Tartu Vocational Education Centre, which operates as a municipal education institution under the management contract, and why not? But then we should have a pretty clear picture that we're not just doing a substitution. So what's the real added value? Once again: if someone wanted to come up with something, it would be worth thinking about the model that I considered very seriously in the same profession in 1995: there would be an Estonian Vocational Education Foundation in Estonia, there would be one institution, one vocational school, 30,000 students all over Estonia. If Ireland is able to do such a thing, then Estonia should also be able to do it. I don't think that's a very stupid idea. But for pragmatic reasons, I wouldn't take such a radical step right now, so let's move on evolutionaryly. Today, for example, the so-called Livonian vocational socialitetet works quite well, or I do not know how colleagues from Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre and Viljandi call their community. They are already coordinating their learning programmes and activities on a 'non-profit basis' basis. Maybe it's possible faster than we can imagine right now. So the point is going in the right direction, but there has to be a very specific understanding and a very broad understanding, which then gets better.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U297	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U298	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm coming back to compulsory secondary education. How does it feel to have such an approach if we were to aim for a young person to leave school only if he or she had received a secondary education or a vocational qualification and built up a vocational education system like this? This is important in shaping value orientation both within the family and in the child itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U299	Well, I wouldn't want to take such a very black and white position here. I also know some young people who, before completing secondary education or vocational school or upper secondary school, have gone to work and managed and subsequently completed higher education. With the power of law, such an opportunity to take away, I don't know. I said before that I was a little skeptical, and I'm going to be a little skeptical. If we offer more flexible opportunities to return to a vocational education-level school, we have a pretty well-launched programme at higher education level, where our early education can continue under favourable or flexible conditions, if we go further along this route, with a bit more carrot than a whip to solve this problem, maybe it will still be more effective. I think the less we commit to law, the more public charges and the more we use carrots or substantive mechanisms of action, the smarter we do. But I'll tell you again, let's talk, okay? There's both pros and cons. I don't want to paint my position very black and white.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U300	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U301	Minister, thank you. No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U302	I ask Lauri Luige, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu Chair for a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U303	Ladies and gentlemen, The Cultural Commission discussed the draft VET Act at 331 in two sessions. For the first time on 14 January, where the content of the draft was introduced by Minister Aaviksoo, and for the second time on 22 January, we had invited representatives of interest groups from the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, the Association of Estonian Cities, the Estonian Association for the Promotion of Vocational Training, the Estonian Teachers' Association, the Estonian Student Association, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Estonian Employers' Confederation. I will go over, very briefly, the more important objectives of this law. As the Minister introduced the contents for a very long time, I will no longer enter the contents directly. The most important objectives are to improve the quality and flexibility of vocational training, increase access, reduce the drop-out rate for learners, organise school management, simplify teacher regulations and increase output orientation. At the first meeting, when Minister Aaviksoo gave an overview of the Commission, the members of the Commission raised some questions, which were followed by a small overview. Members of the Commission examined from the Minister whether the changes to this law would affect general education in vocational training institutions. The Minister replied that, broadly speaking, one of the aims of the law is to integrate general education more into vocational training, while the law also leaves the possibility of providing vocational training in general education. Secondly, it was examined what the highest level of professional qualifications could be. This is what the Minister spoke about today in his presentation in this Chamber for a long time. In the draft we have designed a fifth level, which is basically an invitation from a technician. In addition, at the first session, we also marked the topics relating to the content of support services, the teaching in Estonian and the transition to it, which was discussed very much today. In short, there was also the issue of catering, traineeships, public training orders and the network of vocational training institutions. By 22 January, as I mentioned, we had invited representatives of several interest groups. In total, 11 of them and more than half of them raised concerns or one of the problems to be resolved in this bill was the provision of professional higher education education in vocational schools, which has been dealt with here today. This was a serious concern and I believe that we can discuss this issue at length and in depth in the Commission. The representative of the Chamber of Commerce also stressed that they considered that schools could also be entitled to provide paid services within certain limits. It highlighted the importance of modernising the organisation of traineeships, in particular cooperation between educational institutions and businesses. The Teachers' Association raised the question of teaching, teaching, and teacher's basic competence. The Vocational Training Promotion Association also marked the wish to give vocational schools the opportunity to engage in economic activities, as well as the possibility to participate in the relevant professional associations or non-profit institutions. The importance of regional policy was mentioned, and briefly by funding and practice. The Association of Estonian Rural Governments also stressed the importance of cooperation between the Chamber of Professionals and companies. The Estonian Association of Student Governments highlighted the importance of apprenticeships. They stressed that, of course, there would be extra money for vocational education and marked support services and cooperation with businesses. In addition to the issues raised by the invited organisations, we briefly discussed the issue of the fallout, the language of instruction, as has already been mentioned, vocational training in upper secondary school and general education in vocational schools. That is, broadly speaking, all that we have been able to discuss in these two meetings of the Commission. The issues that have been through this Chamber today will certainly also come to the table in further discussions by the Commission. We still have time to make improvements and suggestions for improvements, so I believe that the debate will be quite thorough in the Commission. The Commission also took the following consensual decisions: Firstly, we decided to send the draft to plenary to discuss today, and I was appointed rapporteur. The Commission proposes that the Plenary Assembly close the first reading of draft 331 and set the deadline for amendments. 15 February 2010 at 4 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U304	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Mailis Repsi! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U305	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are discussing a new draft law on vocational training institutions. As is customary, I will start with the words of praise, and then I will make some comments according to the opposition. First of all, it is pleased that this very voluminous bill, which involved a great many parties, has reached the Riigikogu. The working group, which has carried out quite a long and thorough analysis of many aspects, also made its representative, Mr Nature, in the Committee on Culture, a very dignified impression. Indeed, excellent work had been done in cooperation with the Ministry. The attempt and desire to take vocational education to a new European level, to make it comparable to the vocational education system of many other countries, and to regulate it more evenly in the Riigikogu will certainly receive a great deal of recognition. Now there are some thoughts that have arisen. One and the main thing that the parties in the Commission pointed out and quite well emphasised by the Minister in answering the questions here today is, in fact, the future survival. In vocational education, the question is how to ensure sound and relatively good funding. Vocational education has had times when its funding has fallen significantly behind the financing of general education and has been at times when it has been financed at a very significant level. At the best of times, vocational education and training had been financed almost once and a half. So, what do we do with these comparisons? Indeed, the desire to finance vocational education is slightly better than the desire to finance regular secondary education by two parties. The first and very important aspect to be taken into account is that it must ensure young people's knowledge of general education and, of course, vocational skills and apprenticeships. Both hiring good masters and working with the private sector cannot come free of charge. While, at the height of the economy, employers had an interest in getting employees as soon as possible, it has now been quite difficult to find internships in areas where there is no money. The second issue that has already been addressed today is flexibility. What did I mean by my question that the country has not been the best host? Over the years, the private sector has very often faced the fact that they have made or are making a very large investment in one region or another and have contacted vocational education and training schools, but it is precisely because of bureaucracy in public structures and other levels of decision-making that it has often happened that the private sector has ordered this training itself or that it is a school, I am very sorry, that the training has in principle been carried out illegally before all the permits are in place. That is what I meant when I said, despite the efforts of the state. The most successful vocational schools, which have been very advanced in this area, have actually done so despite having training permits. Later, many have become a frontrunner in this area, but let us ask about these first few years, that is, the first million. Why have schools been talking about the foundation model for a very long time? It is precisely because upper secondary schools are still largely in the hands of the local government and there is often a competition between the local government and the state school that is not very constructive. Perhaps today's Minister's plan to take all schools to the state level, i.e. secondary education remains at the state level that it somehow unites, will be very successful. Either way, it is about flexibility and better cooperation. Unfortunately, the new plan of the Ministry of Finance to put everything under integrated accounting has not given any indication that the state would want to be more flexible in its own right. The question of language cannot be left out here either. Of course, it can be said that seven years is a long time, but it is clear that when we read the VET Act, the transition to Estonian is a slogan rather than a proposal that is essentially accepted. It has not been taken into account that very different target groups are involved in vocational education. Indeed, there are young people who learn secondary education and who come there knowingly to acquire education, and what else can we want other than to know very well the official language? At the same time, however, there are students with special needs, young people without basic education, unemployed on very short vocational programmes, and a large number of other target groups, for which it is now said that their only option is to learn 60% in the national language, are, to put it mildly, unthinkable. On the other hand, if we look at the logic of the design of vocational education, a very large part of vocational education is acquired in practice. My question is whether in certain areas a young person can go to practice only if he or she is also guaranteed an Estonian working environment there. How else can we ensure that he acquires education, including during his internship, in the national language? These are certainly issues where we need to analyse vocational education intelligently and essentially. As a reminder to the Riigikogu, we must also look at the trends in Europe at the same time. Vocational education has been introduced into a completely different and new area, i.e. new immigration. Most countries no longer talk about vocational education in the national language only, but also about vocational education in English or Arabic to bring those who come into the country as adults to the labour market as soon as possible. In addition to the requirement for a national language, we need to think wisely that vocational education is increasingly also dealing with the unemployed and adult students. So here too, at least on this issue of national language, we need to understand the objectives and logic of vocational education, not just the political objective. In summary, I believe that most of the Vocational Training Institution Act gets a rather substantive and certainly supportive debate in the Riigikogu, but there are still a lot of heated debates to be held here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-30_U306	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 331. I will set the deadline for the submission of 331 amendments in s. 15 February 2010 at 4 p.m. That concludes the first reading and concerns the seventh item on the agenda. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 5.57 p.m.
