ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Members of the Government. Let's start the briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 40 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, 61 missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Ladies and gentlemen, only four issues have been registered in advance today, so I am not currently restricting questions on the ground. However, if the debate on a few questions gets too long, I am forced to apologise to anyone who does not have a follow-up to the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U2	Let's start asking questions. Mr Simson has a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U3	Thank you. Prime Minister! I ask you about the energy market because Eesti Energia, a major player in the Estonian energy market, has moved into the administration of the Minister of Economic Affairs, i.e. one minister is no longer responsible and the other is just getting up to speed. I assume that this is why the energy market is taking place in the interest of the entire government and especially in your interest. My first question is as follows. There are many countries in Europe where the electricity market is open, but despite this, a large proportion, or 70 to 90%, of small consumers, consume general services. A few days ago, the Head of the Competition Authority came to the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, who said that Estonia's situation is unique because our general service is with a large margin, Eesti Energia wants to increase it even more, and that is why our general service is dying out. What do you think is the reason that the Estonian energy market is so different from that of the rest of Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U4	Thank you. I cannot, of course, believe that European consumers are so indifferent that they are absolutely not interested in the different price packages, and they simply take what is destined to be part of them in the will of fate. Estonian consumers should be commended. Our consumers have become very aware in a very short time. They know perfectly what part of the electricity bill is the price of electricity, how much it costs to transport electricity home and how much the taxes are. They can see the risks associated with stock market fluctuations. People are considering very carefully how much risk they want to take, and on this basis they choose a suitable electricity package. I congratulate our consumers, they have become real professionals in a short time. Apparently, the commitment that people have dealt with electricity issues is the reason why different price packages are preferred in Estonia to the general service. But unfortunately, I don't have any information from independent sources to support your claim.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! Unlike you, I think that in many European countries, small consumers do not use general services because they are stupid, but because many European governments consider small consumers to be vulnerable. Only a fair margin is allowed to be added to the general service in these countries, not like in Estonia, where Eesti Energia increased the profit margin five times when moving to the open market. The Estonian Competition Authority can accept the margin only afterwards. Can the government do something proactively about Eesti Energia, which is a state company?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U7	Thank you. You have, of course, all sorts of bold arguments about a five-fold increase in profits, and so on, which I will not at any rate confirm. You know perfectly well that electricity prices are controlled by the Competition Authority, which acts independently. Telephone law has not been in force in Estonia for several decades. The Prime Minister has no power or will whatsoever to influence the Competition Authority in their independent decision-making process. However, when we come back to the European context, it is said that even after the electricity market in Estonia opened up completely, electricity is still one of the cheapest for our home consumer in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! Since Eesti Energia's margin was 0.15 cents per kilowatt-hour at the end of last year and it increased to 0.72, you do not need to make an estimate of how bold my claims are. But I'm also asking what the government can do. At the end of last year, we discussed how to prevent such a large increase in the price of electricity consumed by households. It is clear that out of the five components of the electricity bill there are at least three taxes, the amount of which will be decided politically. The share of taxes in energy prices is higher than in the European Union on average. Nothing has been done today, there has been no reduction in excise duty or VAT, and nothing has been done with a renewable energy fee. Do you see the possibility that the state, for its part, will, however, give up the revenue that the increase in the price of electricity has brought? We know that it was already possible to change the forecast because more VAT has been collected because of the increase in electricity prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U10	Thank you. You have always compared your current rhetoric with the minimum national taxes on our electricity in the European Union. You are now coming to compare with the European Union average. I would advise you very seriously first to consider and see what this European Union average is, and only then will the taxes imposed by the Estonian legislator begin to compare with the European average. I guess it was just a glitch in your tongue. Secondly, it would be easy to manage if there was an iron rule that any increase in prices immediately means an increase in profits, that the increase in prices is the company's profit. However, we know that under the conditions of the free market economy, prices have been raised, yet companies have gone bankrupt since then. So the price increase may also mean a loss of competition, and the increase in prices may amount to a very large loss for the company. In the free market economy, these things are not so simple that when prices rise, the company's profits are increasing. Real life is something else entirely.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U11	Now you can ask the questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U12	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! Today you can read in the Eesti Päevaleht that Eesti Energia orders the lobby of U.S. senators for hard money. Here is a quite large sum of a few hundred thousand dollars. It's about the oil project in Utah State. This lobbying takes large sums of money from the state company Eesti Energia, which belongs to all of us. On the other hand, the government is also taking out a lot of money. Eesti Energia has become a gold mine of the government. This money must be repaid by the consumer through the price of electricity. How do you feel about this lobbying? Should there be more publicity in Estonia so that we know which companies defend their special interests in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U13	Thank you. I'll start with the last question. I think that in Estonia too, rules on lobbyism should be established so that it is clear which operators are applying for legislative changes. At present, in Estonia, there is less transparency and clarity in my opinion than in the United States. Therefore, when it comes to establishing rules on lobbying and making lobbying more transparent, yes, I am in a supportive position. It is the case with entrepreneurship that it is certainly not profitable for someone who is afraid of spending and does not take risks on a calculated basis. If there is no willingness to invest in the initial phase of a business project, it is worth not doing so, then it is worth choosing a wage job where the guarantee is much higher than that of an entrepreneur. However, I do not think that this would be a good and appropriate recommendation for businesses. Entrepreneurship is always linked to risks. Risks need to be carefully considered and investments should also be made based on the outcome of the analysis. Once again, it is not the great expenses that must be feared, but the small incomes. Those who fear spending usually do not earn income, or profit, as an entrepreneur. Eesti Energia spends not the money that Estonian domestic consumers have paid to Eesti Energia on foreign markets, but it spends the money earned there in foreign markets. Because they've been entrepreneurial, they have something to spend.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U14	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U15	Thank you. Prime Minister! My question is based on your last words that we must fear small incomes. Those are God's words. You said in response to Kadri Samson that Estonia has one of the lowest electricity prices in Europe. However, if we count our low incomes, low wages, poor pensions and non-existent child benefits, we will see that the price of electricity in Estonia is not the lowest. Why is the price of electricity in Estonia so high, esteemed Head of Government?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U16	Even if the purchasing power is taken into account, electricity in Estonia is among the cheaper, not the more expensive, of the European Union. However, the consumer believes that any price is high, the price of bread and bread is high, just as the price of heat, water and electricity is always too high in the consumer's opinion. The consumer should never agree to an excessive increase in price. If the consumer exerts pressure on the manufacturer, if the consumer exerts pressure on the market, then it can be assumed that the price will remain at an acceptable level. But for the sake of objectivity, I have never said that Estonia has the cheapest electricity in the European Union. The lowest price of electricity among the Member States of the European Union is known to be in Bulgaria, while Estonia has been the second highest on better days. But now even France is offering a lower price to its domestic customers. In particular, this results from long-standing investments in nuclear power plants. Nuclear electricity is indeed very cheap in France, and this explains the very broad support given by the French to nuclear energy, even after the Fukushima tragedy. Given our purchasing power, we're not quite the first, but our electricity still belongs to the cheaper ones. This does not mean, however, that we should not make further efforts to ensure that electricity generation takes account of the solvency of consumers and that the price is acceptable to consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U17	Ladies and gentlemen, the last three issues now registered on the ground. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U18	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! As we know, electricity comes home to the consumer via networks, in Estonia via Elering and Elektrilevi and the intermediary. What do you think about adding Elering and Elektrilevi? Then, in a way, the road would be shorter, there would be fewer intermediaries, and maybe electricity would get cheaper. The integration of Elering and Elektrilev would perhaps result in a stronger and more robust network organisation, while at the same time it would take the impact of the risky projects of Eesti Energia off the networks. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U19	Thank you. Let it be said once again that the funds that Eesti Energia has invested in foreign projects do not come from transmission fees. These funds are earned on foreign markets. The profit margin is known to be significantly higher on foreign markets than on the Estonian market. Eesti Energia has sold electricity outside Estonia quite well in recent years. I hope that in the future they will be able to sell even more and with a better margin. This requires, of course, the construction of connections, the construction of EstLink 2 cable and the construction of a line between Estonia and Latvia. The distribution network will probably have to invest a considerable amount of electricity in the near future. You, as a specialist, know that for some reason, during the Soviet period, electric lines were invested very rapidly between 1973 and 1984; this was the real peak, after which the decline came; only since 1997 has there been some investment in electric lines in Estonia again. A very large proportion of the routes will soon be older than 40 years. For 40 years, however, there should be a limit of which there should not be older power lines in Estonia, because they can cause very large energy disruptions. These charges relate in particular to the need for investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U20	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U21	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! As we know, Elering's profit last year was enormous: Elering made EUR 34 million in profits at 109 million turnover. In what other economic area can such profits be made? In the first quarter of this year, Elering's profits amounted to 20 million euros. Is such a profit for a monopoly company justified? Doesn't Elering need money to get ready to buy gas lines?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U22	Whether Elering ever buys gas lines or not, time will tell. It's a long way to go. However, it is known that Elering needs to make important investments to ensure security of supply in Estonia. We all know that EstLink's second cable is in the construction phase, construction is about to end, in 2014 this cable will be operational. This significantly adds security of supply to Estonia. Elering also needs to invest in rapid response capacities. If there are any interruptions to core generation capacities or connections to foreign markets should be interrupted, then we need emergency capacities. The obligation to build them is assigned to Elering. In order to ensure security of supply, these quite large-scale investments are essential. The margins that consumers have had to pay to Elering have certainly been seriously assessed by the Competition Authority. I'm pretty sure Elering hasn't collected any surplus profits from anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U23	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U24	Thank you. Prime Minister! It is completely incomprehensible to me why it is tried to contrast the profits earned from foreign markets and its use in the state budget, for example, through the dividend taken from Eesti Energia. Can you tell us how much dividends are taken from Eesti Energia to the state budget every year and what costs can be spent in the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U25	The years are different and the dividend amounts are different. The state budget investments in Eesti Energia are also different. But the state budget is approved and, to a large extent, the Riigikogu is also preparing, so there are no secrets about spending these funds. A lot has been said about electric excise. This more than EUR 30 million per year, which comes from electricity excise duty, will certainly go to teachers' salaries, pensions for pensioners and other extremely necessary expenses. The government has not hidden this money from the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U26	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U27	The next question is from my colleague, Kalle Laanet, to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The principle of legality applies to our criminal proceedings. § 194 of the Code of Criminal Procedure speaks of the motivation of criminal proceedings, which is a report of a criminal offence or other information referring to a criminal offence. My question specifically concerns other information. For example, if something like this is published in the media or there have been certain events, for example, people who have turned to a medical institution who have been injured during a fight, is someone in law enforcement or investigative agencies checking such information and, if so, who will?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U29	Thank you very much for your question. The laws lay down very clear principles on the basis of which criminal proceedings are initiated. Of course, these decisions are made by investigative bodies and also by prosecutors. Since 2004, the principle that the prosecutors run criminal proceedings in Estonia applies. This important change was made almost ten years ago in the investigation of serious crimes with the aim of involving prosecutors in criminal proceedings at the earliest possible stage. It is, of course, the responsibility of the relevant authorities to make a decision in each particular case. These are independent officials, researchers, criminals, who make these decisions. If it was a question of the initiation, non-initiation or, for example, termination of criminal proceedings in one case or another, we have a number of additional provisions in this regard since 2011. For example, it is possible to terminate criminal proceedings because of a reasonable period of time, i.e. if the criminal proceedings have lasted too long. It is, of course, possible to appeal such decisions to the courts. I think that, in order to ensure that decisions are monitored as well as possible, these principles of the rule of law are quite well thought out here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U30	Please, Mr Kalle Laane, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U31	Thank you. I understand this principle, but it presupposes that research institutions themselves show activity and control this information, which is why I emphasised the words 'other information'. My experience and practice have recently shown, in 2011 too, in Question Time we debated a specific case that research institutions tend to be passive when it comes to controlling other information. My question is whether someone is carrying out specific monitoring, whether this other information is being checked and then whether or not criminal proceedings need to be initiated. There is another part of the question. Yes, the prosecutor runs criminal proceedings, but he has no administrative measures to influence the investigative body to do its job properly. Are you getting into this subject or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U32	Thank you for your question. It is certainly essential to ensure and improve the quality of criminal proceedings. In recent years, I myself have made a lot of contributions to increasing the country's capacity to face serious hidden crime, concealment and organised crime. To this end, several million euros of additional funds have been allocated in the last two national budgets. Your question concerned those who must guarantee its quality and be active, not passive. They're the criminal mentors themselves. At the beginning of this year, 1 January 2013, the wages of criminal practitioners rose over long years. I think this has been a remarkable step. Compared to our neighbouring countries and other countries of Central and Eastern Europe with similar status, we have been able to raise wages and improve people's motivation. Along with this, of course, there is also a growing demand for the quality of criminal proceedings. Of course, the aim is that, although criminal proceedings are very different, from the processing of mass crimes to the handling of the most serious hidden crimes, there must be no setback in demand. Experience also shows that the most difficult thing is still to deal with serious hidden crimes, whether they are drug crimes, serious large-scale tax crimes, corruption or many other forms of organised crime. It is here that we want to make clear progress. I think a lot of steps have already been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U33	Please, Mr Kalle Laane, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U34	Thank you. I understand what the country's priorities are, but, unfortunately, at the county level, even smaller issues are disturbing people, especially those relating to possible crimes against individuals. In very many cases, when people do not get a solution to their concerns from research institutions, they turn to the members of the Riigikogu elected locally. How do you assess whether a member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask, for example, an employee of a research institution to do his job correctly or whether it is a trade in influence? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U35	Thank you for your question. I think that every Estonian citizen, if he represents, for example, the victim or is himself or herself injured, has the right to ask the investigator, the prosecutor, all those involved in criminal investigations, to work in a high quality manner and to deal with criminal matters in the shortest possible time. It is our duty, in some form, to all of us, especially when people have suffered damage or material damage. Of course, it is our expectation that such injustice will be remedied as soon as possible and that the perpetrator will also be found. I think that this is the unambiguous expectation of every Estonian citizen, and it cannot be any other way. As far as demandingness is concerned, it is quite clear that demandingness in the public sector and, in fact, in other areas, must start with peaks or leaders. That's the way it's bound to be. If you refer to the county level, then individual investigators, case managers, so-called bosses and their managers, too, must set a standard of demandingness. The choice of staff must ensure that people who have the right to conduct criminal proceedings deserve that trust. As I mentioned, at the beginning of this year, the motivation of all criminal mentors was improved, and all criminals across Estonia are now guaranteed at least the average wage in Estonia. We want to move on from here, of course. Additional resources have also been allocated to the criminal police. But this concern is understandable; it is certainly a concern of many citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U36	A matter registered on the ground, Mr Neeme Suur, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U37	Thank you, Madam President. I will also ask about security at county level, i.e. specifically on the example of Läänemaa. But it doesn't seem like it's over yet. We all rejoiced when a constable was found in Lihula, but unfortunately, I don't think it's all right. The constable doesn't get to Lihula very often, and it seems that in essence he has either not taken up the work of his district constable or is involved in other duties. It has happened that Läänemaa is, as far as I know, the only county where all constables begin their work in the morning at the county centre, Haapsalu. The constable division of the cross is located in Haapsalu, all the constables travel to Haapsalu and then they spread out again. Lihula Constable also lives in Haapsalu. Is there some kind of pilot project going on in Läänemaa, and the police are even giving up the principle of the district constable, or is it some kind of local peculiarity?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U38	Thank you for your question. There are quite a considerable number of regional constants in Estonia. As we have pointed out, motivation was, in many ways, a problem in fulfilling the position of the Lihula district constable at the beginning of this year. The salary in this position has now increased by 23%, up to Estonia's average salary. The effect was that the district constable was found. As far as the organisation of work is concerned, this is an operational issue, which is decided by the local manager, the organiser of police work. I have no information about any pilot project, but it is clear that the basis for police work in counties is a risk-based approach, i.e. a risk-setting approach. The way in which information is exchanged, where it is gathered and when it is distributed is a matter of decision-making on the ground. It is, of course, important to ensure that the problems are resolved. I don't think the problem is solved by having one person present for eight hours in a particular place, even though the risks are less than in another place in this county, for example. I think that mobility and flexibility in the organisation of work and the risk-based approach are a modern principle in police work. This, of course, does not mean that the problem you referred to does not matter. On the contrary, I am happy to look into your claim that everything begins and ends in Haapsalu, that the organisation of work is very Haapsalu-centred. It is clear that in Läänemaa there are other places besides Haapsalu where security needs to be ensured.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U39	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Kaljuvee, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U40	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! Ida-Viru County is known to be the second most important security problem in Estonia after Tallinn. We also know that the prefect's position there has been vacant for almost six months. What about when this high office will be filled, in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U41	Thank you for your question. The post of Prefect has been filled, it will be performed by the Actor. You certainly meant that no permanent prefect has been appointed for five years at the moment, but you must correct this claim as if the prefect's position had not been filled. No, it's not. These duties are carried out by a specific person who currently carries out these tasks as acting person. As I have also said in this Chamber, I considered it important to hear the position of the new Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board regarding the appointment of the Prefect of the East. I think that in the near future, the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board will make his proposal, and then we can talk about who is the prefect to be appointed for five years. I think we'll be moving on here in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U42	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U43	The next question is from my colleague, Yana Toom, to Mr Pevkur, Minister of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, My question concerns disputes between housing associations. We know that we basically have forced membership of a housing association, which means that there are people with very different incomes, world views and competences, which often raises all kinds of disputes. In fact, the court is the only place where more serious disputes can be settled. But we know that the courts are overloaded. I also asked the new Chief Justice of the Supreme Court and he thought it would be quite reasonable to create some kind of extra-judicial body for resolving disputes between housing associations. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U45	Thank you for your question. In the first order, the cooperative should definitely operate. In order for the housing cooperative to function, it is indisputable that all the members of the cooperative should have a reasonable relationship with each other and take the necessary decisions. The first assumption should be that the members of the building management company choose a management board that takes account of the wishes of the members of the cooperative. True, practice shows that there have been disputes. If the board of the cooperative knowingly conceals information or refuses to disclose information to the members of the cooperative, it is indeed necessary to refer the matter to the court. This procedure is currently taking place before the Court in an action procedure, which really takes time. We have prepared a draft law on apartment ownership and housing associations in the Ministry. There we have offered as a simpler solution that the so-called internal disputes of the building association, for example, if a member of the cooperative wants to know something from the cooperative, could take place without an action, i.e. on the basis of an application, and the court itself would ask the management board of the building association for information. The other part of the question is wider. This is what we can discuss in this large hall in the course of the procedure of the law on apartment ownership and housing associations. The question is whether and how much economic data must be available to the members of the building management company, from the bank account to the day-to-day economic operations, to who is elected as the manager of the building management company or how repairs of the house are organised, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U46	Please, Mr Toom, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U47	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, did I understand correctly that you do not support such an idea and think that this provision, which is included in this bill, will solve this problem? Does this really solve this problem and shorten the processing of the complaint? At the moment, the situation is that by the time the court takes its decision, the train will be long gone, all the credits and loans will be on, no papers will be seen, etc. In time, it just doesn't match the needs of real life.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U48	Thank you. I'd love to, yes, be more specific, because the answer to the previous question ran out of time. We've written an additional provision in the bill. At present, it is not possible to read from the Apartment Association Act that the management of the building management company has an obligation to provide information to the members of the building management company. It is clear from the new law that a member of the building management company is entitled to receive information from the management board of the building management company. We have received feedback from many housing associations, as well as from the association of housing associations, that the board of directors often says that the law does not state that information should be provided. We eliminate this contradiction and write in the law that a member of the building management company has the right to receive information from the management board of the cooperative. With regard to whether to make a separate body for the resolution of these disputes, I am a little hesitant here. There are some pre-trial bodies in Estonia, the most well-known is the Labour Dispute Committee, and there is also a rental committee in Tallinn. But we know that if the parties disagree with the decision of the Labour Dispute Committee, they can go to court and there are still three steps in court. I would rather take advantage of these opportunities, which would be quicker and simpler and would not create additional administrative burdens. First of all, I am thinking of the possibility of giving a member of the building management company an explicit right to receive information from the cooperative and, secondly, I think it is justified to turn the action into an action without an action, because the proceedings without an action are being brought more quickly in court.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U49	Please, Mr Toom, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U50	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I have a bit of a personal question. Did I get the right impression that the idea of setting up an out-of-court body came as a surprise to you? Is this position that you have just stated purely your personal opinion, which you have not yet discussed with anyone, or has this debate still taken place in some ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U51	The draft law on housing ownership and housing associations has been prepared for a very long time, but, as far as I know, the establishment of a pre-trial procedure has not been the subject of a separate debate during this procedure. Accelerated procedures have been discussed, how these disputes could be resolved more quickly and how the building management company should be open to its members, including the disclosure of economic data. The Apartment Association Act currently allows the management board of the building management company to be re-elected if the management board has acted against the cooperative's wishes. In this sense, the members of the building management company as owners are still entitled and able to say how they think their house should be managed and to require that management be carried out in the most transparent manner possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U52	Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to put forward three questions on the ground. Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! As regards the discussion of this draft and the extra-judicial institution, as a member of the support group of the housing associations of the Riigikogu, I remember that this was discussed with the people of the Ministry of Justice a year ago. I proposed it, but it didn't work out. That's it. Prevention plays a major role in preventing disputes. As far as I know, the greatest concerns about disputes are of an economic nature. We all know that the building management company carries out economic activities, orders construction works and all kinds of services. It shall, in principle, take place on the basis of the decisions of the chairman. Therefore, there is a risk that people's common money will not be used in the best way, that competition will not be guaranteed, that no real market price or quality of service will be taken into account. If the public sector is resolved by public procurement regulation, housing associations do not have regulation at all. Do you not think that ordering services could be regulated in the same way and that disputes in this area could be ruled out?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U54	Thank you. I come back to my very first answer. The members of the building management company are those who are directly responsible for the day-to-day operation of the building management company, authorising one member of the management board who organises the business activities of the building management company on a daily basis. There may also be several members. The owners of the apartments who are members of this cooperative are, of course, entitled to the first check. If you look at the number of litigations, it seems to me that the majority of Estonian housing associations are working nicely and there are no problems. In these cooperatives, where there are problems, they are more related to the behaviour of the board of the cooperative, because the members of the cooperative are not given sufficient information and may be engaged in unreasonable economic transactions, including the same procurements you referred to. It is my wish that, if we were to discuss the draft law on housing property and housing associations in this Chamber and also in the committees, we would once again consider these possibilities very seriously, given the views of all the political groups on how open it is for housing cooperatives to be. After all, economic activity has moved to banks via electronic means of communication. The bank secret is the second, so-called balancing side. The question arises as to whether and how much bank secrecy information can be given to the building management company. At the moment, the bill is such that the protection of bank secrecy extends to the account of the building management company.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U55	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U56	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I will continue to think the same way about the time frame. Can you tell me when this bill might reach the Riigikogu? What do you think, apart from bank secrecy, are the other problems that have put this bill a little bit off?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U57	Thank you. This bill has now gone through three rounds of coordination. That doesn't happen with a lot of draft laws. With this draft, we had to do so because there were many issues at stake and there were many conflicting interests. Apartment owners, property managers, banks and association of housing associations as a whole have all submitted their proposals. The last two topics were banking secrecy and the right of claim of the building management company as to the debt of management costs, i.e. whether or not the building management company should have a lien. We currently have a mortgage holder, or bank, ahead, and there is a question as to whether the building management company will have priority. This has been discussed at length with the Banking Association, the Association of Housing Cooperatives and the Association of Real Estate Managers and Careers. We have reached this stage that the bill is "locked." The Ministry will be in the government before Midsummer, hopefully, and in September we will be able to hand it over to Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U58	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U59	The final issue is the salaries of the Police and Border Guard Board employees. The question is addressed by my colleague Lauri Laas to Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U60	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, The new chief of police, Elmar Vaher, has promised that police officers in Ida-Virumaa will be relieved by the drought. He's planning to raise the pay for law enforcement in this area. I think Elmar Vaher's idea is pretty good. I ask you, as minister: are you going to help Elmar Vaher and also to contribute to making the police pay rise? Are you going to find extra money in the state budget to solve the pay of police officers in Ida-Virumaa, and when could it happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U61	Thank you for your question. Additional money was found in the 2013 budget as salaries of police officers, with 85% of the salaries of police officers rising from the beginning of this year. When it comes to statistics, I think it is important that seven million euros are directed to the Police and Border Guard Board to carry out wage reform and raise wages. As mentioned earlier, the wages of all the regional police officers (the local police authorities in Estonia are now 266) have risen to 855 euros, the average wage in Estonia, and this means an average wage increase of 14%. This certainly also applies to police officers working in Ida-Virumaa. The wages of criminal police officers will also start with the average salary in Estonia, and the wages of all criminal police officers rose this year. The wages of the police officers are on average on average, stressing the word 'average', rising 9.7% across Estonia. When we talk separately about Ida-Virumaa, in order to implement the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan, in order to motivate police officers to work in Ida-Virumaa and to send additional patrols there, EUR 335000 has been allocated for this year. As regards various grants and bonuses, such as housing benefits, regional fees, increased risk charges, these steps have been taken in 2013. We hope, of course, that this trend will continue next year and that it will be possible to improve people's motivation in 2014, but this will depend in a lot on the Riigikogu's decision to approve the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U62	We will continue with the issues registered on the ground. Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U63	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! To some extent, I will continue with the subject of Ida-Virumaa, but I will be more specific. I'm asking about border guards at the Narva border crossing. In fact, there are currently 94 vacant posts at 15. Interesting as it may be, but workers leaving the Narva border crossing point do not go to work in the private sector or abroad, for example, but to other prefectures. Four people have gone to work at the Southern Prefecture, three Northern Prefectures and one Eastern Prefecture. Do you think it's okay to have this kind of wage competition in one profession? How is it possible to perform the tasks of the state in such a critical situation in such an important place as the Narva border crossing point for the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U64	Thank you for your question. You raised the argument in your question that wage competition is the reason why people are leaving. You claim that workers are simply being lured from Narva border crossing to other prefectures. I don't have the data set you referred to for the first quarter of this year. If your claim is supported by facts, I will certainly address this issue. You referred to last year. The situation is s. a Since 1 January, as I described, has changed considerably. There has been a wage increase at the Police and Border Guard Board for a long time. Most of all, by the way, people working in the field of border guards were involved. Wages rose there by more than 92% of workers. As I mentioned, as a whole, 85% of police officers received a raise. The highest wage increases were paid by those working in low-paid positions and by those working in higher-risk positions, including border guards, district constables, police officers, and police officers. I think it has certainly had a positive effect on the trend you referred to. The turnover of staff at the Police and Border Guard Board is, in general, 4 to 5%, which has not changed. I expect that this year, given the money being directed to motivate and raise people's wages, the turnover will decrease. Overall, the average staff turnover in an organisation is 4 to 5%. It is considered critical to have a flow rate of more than 10%.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U65	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U66	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. At the beginning of the year, we presented you with an inquiry into the activities of the Police and Border Guard Board in Ida-Virumaa. We were talking about over a hundred cops missing. Now it's May. Can you tell me how many employees are missing right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U67	Thank you for your question. I have the numbers nicely, I kind of saw your question coming. Just as I answered you some time ago, the Eastern Prefecture has remained the same since March 2012. Currently, there are 770 police officers, 312 of whom are in law enforcement positions and the rest of the staff. There is certainly a need for more recruitment, especially for the Jõhvi and Narva police services. As I replied to you in March, additional resources have been allocated for 2013 in order to hire more people. Inevitably, if there are any departures, there are visitors. As I also described in my previous reply, for this year, the Ida-Viru County Action Plan will be implemented with an additional amount of approximately EUR 335000, both for the financing of additional patrols and for various grants, in order to motivate people to take up the position of police officer in Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U68	Please, Mr Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U69	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good minister! I'm asking about the different salaries of the policemen doing the same job. For example, if a police officer is working in the Southern Prefecture, he will receive less pay than a police officer working the same amount in the North Prefecture. Do you see that these pay gap decreases over time, and when can you promise that these salaries will be equal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U70	Thank you for your question. To begin with, I am talking about the wage reform that we have already talked about in this Chamber, but I will say two words about it. The first phase of the wage reform will be carried out on a significant scale during this year. Its aim is to harmonise the level of pay for those who do the same work in the same positions. These differences are mainly due to the fact that, when the PBGB was created in early 2010, different pay systems were transferred from the Border Guard Agency, the Police Office and the Citizenship and Migration Board. Wages had been different in these institutions. They were not harmonised at the time, and now we are doing it. As far as the criminal authorities are concerned, the salary still depends on where the person is doing his job. Let's take your example. A separate regional fee is provided for in the Southern Prefecture, as is the case in Ida-Viru County, Ida Prefecture. It is certainly necessary to compare similar positions, to take into account the individual's experience, to take into account the degree of service of the individual involved. If you are suggesting that these positions are exactly the same, I dare point out the difference between the regional fee. Harmonisation is important, but we must take into account the workload, which certainly differs significantly from the workload in other parts of Estonia in very different research services in the Prefecture of the North. But the overall logic is quite clear: wages will be harmonised this year on a large scale and there will be an additional resource, EUR 7 million, which the PBGB received in addition to its staff budget in 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U71	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I will also stop dealing with this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed all the issues. Although there is still some time left, I still consider Question Time to be over. Thank you to my fellow Members for their questions. Prime Minister and Members of the Government, thank you for answering the questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U72	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. We will begin the 14th working week session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U73	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Like all other people, schoolchildren come in the autumn after the summer. It is quite appropriate to talk about a large number of children going to school on 1 September next year, namely 136362. One of the major cuts in the period of crisis, which has made many parents sigh hard, was the so-called "coastal allowance" lost from the National Family Benefits Act. Our aim and proposal is to bring back the grant as a form of public support. However, in addition to the support given by many local authorities to primary schooling, we could also support all schooling children and their parents at national level to cover early school-related expenditure. Consequently, the Central Party Group will initiate a draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U74	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the work has already begun, but the buzzing is still great! I have adopted a bill on behalf of the board. If it complies with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to accept it within three working days. Now, one message. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure of the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the law on ambient air protection and related amendments to other laws, launched on 13 May, and appointed by the Environment Commission as the steering committee. Please, let's do the presence check! 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U75	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Maritime Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Colleagues, can we start the final vote? If so, I ask for silence! I will put to the final vote the draft law 353 and 386 on the amendment of the Commercial Maritime Law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of other laws in connection with it. Please vote! 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U76	The third reading of the draft law amending the Paris Protocol on ratification of the Supplementary Agreement between the High Headquarters of the Republic of Estonia and the NATO European Force and the headquarters of the High Commander in the Development of NATO, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet now. I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Paris Protocol between the High Headquarters of the Republic of Estonia and NATO's European Forces and the High Commander's Headquarters for NATO development regarding ratification of the Supplementary Agreement to the Paris Protocol 385. Please vote! 75 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U77	The second reading of the draft Act on ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon begins with the Protocol on the concerns of the Irish people annexed to the Treaty on European Union and to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U78	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, In the Government of the Republic s. The 390 draft law initiated on 11 March was held in the Riigikogu's plenary session at first reading. a on 9 April 2004. The first reading of the draft was completed and the deadline for submitting amendments was set by the Riigikogu Board on the proposal of the Constitutional Committee. April 23, 2005 No amendments were received within the deadline. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated its s. At the meeting on 7 May of the above and after making a technical-language amendment to the draft proposal from the language editors, the decision to refer the draft to the Riigikogu's second reading was taken. May 15th, which is today, to propose a final vote on the draft and adopt it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U79	Thank you very much, Mr Rait Maruse. No questions for the waitress. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. As there were no amendments to the draft law, we could go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the protocol to be annexed to the Treaty on European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, on the concerns of the Irish people regarding the Lisbon Treaty, as regards the draft ratification law 390. Please vote! 75 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U80	The second reading of the draft law amending the Law on organic farming and state fees initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Kalev Eagle, Member of the Rural Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Board, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U81	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Commission discussed draft law amending the Law on organic farming and the Law on state fees initiated by the Government of the Republic, 405 after its first reading in plenary at its regular meeting on 7 May. Marika Ruberg, Head of the Office for Organic Farming of the Department of Plant Health of the Ministry of Agriculture, and Tarvo Järve, Chief Specialist at the Plant Protection Office, represented and explained the initiator of the draft. Representatives from Estonian Organic Farming Foundation, TuÜ Estonian Organic, TuÜ South-Estonian Food Network and NGO Ecological Technology Centre also participated in the discussion. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees on the draft. In cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, the Committee on Rural Affairs prepared four amendments. The first three of them are of a linguistic-normalistic nature. The fourth provides for a rounding of state fees for surveillance operations into full euro. Rounding will result in a reduction of approximately EUR 750 per year in the tax burden on the organic sector. The Committee on Rural Affairs decided to put a draft on the 405 plenary agenda today, 15 May, and to propose that the second reading be stopped. Both decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U82	Thank you very much, Mr Kalev Eagle. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U83	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Can you tell me how many catering companies in Estonia are now making food from organic products?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U84	There are no exact accounts. The obligation to notify, which is laid down by this draft instead of its recognition, allows for a better understanding of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U85	No further questions. Thank you again, Mr Kalev Eagle. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. As has been said, four amendments had been tabled. All the proposals have been presented by the Committee on Rural Affairs, the lead committee, and all the proposals have been fully taken into account. Second reading of bill 405 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U86	The second reading of the draft law amending the Media Services Act and related laws initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. For a presentation, the Chair of the Committee on Culture, Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U87	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act 336 amending the Media Services Act and related laws has been initiated by the Government of the Republic, which did so on 10 December last year. I recall that the main objective of this draft is to establish a legal and administrative organisation in accordance with the European Union's media policy directives to carry out the tasks of an independent media regulator. According to the draft, these tasks are performed by the Technical Surveillance Authority of the Republic of Estonia. The first reading of the draft law was held in plenary on 23 January. a. The deadline for submitting amendments was 6 February 2013. Since then, the draft has been prepared for a second reading. We received amendments from the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association and the Estonian Broadcasting Association. The Commission also asked for the opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The members of the Riigikogu, the committees and the political groups did not propose amendments to the draft, but the Committee on Culture itself tabled and drafted five amendments on the basis of the discussions in the committee and on the basis of the referrals and proposals submitted to the Commission. On 6 May, the Committee on Culture decided to send a draft to second reading on 15 May, and we proposed that the second reading be stopped. All our decisions, as well as the Commission's amendments, received consensus support. I will briefly talk about the amendments. The Commission's first proposal concerns a code of conduct on the transmission of commercial communications in children's programmes. In fact, it is a question of inappropriate business communications, which may introduce unwanted foods and drinks to children during children's programmes. If no such code of conduct was established, the original text of the draft would have established it by order of the Director-General of the Technical Surveillance Authority. However, this is not an adequate regulation, as the Director-General of the Technical Surveillance Authority has the right to issue orders only in matters of service. The Commission therefore decided to maintain the current regulation and not to base the proposed regulation on the introduction by the Minister of Culture of a code of conduct, if not established by the media authority itself, by a regulation. So we're still counting on self-regulation first, in general it works. If there are any failures here, the Minister of Culture will continue to have the authority to establish this guide. The second amendment concerns the obligation for the liaison undertaking to transmit data on the authorisation of the service provider of the retransmission programme or the programme catalogue. This will address more precisely the situation where the Technical Surveillance Authority needs to obtain information from the retransmitter on the legality of the programme or programme catalogue. If it is wanted to know who the author is, who bears editorial responsibility or so on, Amendment 2 regulates how and within what time the Technical Surveillance Authority will receive this information. Proposal No 3 concerns the restriction of access to services for minors in order to protect them against inappropriate media products. The proposal provides for how to put a "filter" in place. According to the Commission's proposal, the text contains a personal identification code and appropriate technical solutions, the list of which we left open. The fourth amendment concerns licences for the provision of television and radio services. Logic in this language is that it is the responsibility of the Minister of Culture to establish a general media policy framework, while the organisation of the competition is the responsibility of the Technical Surveillance Authority as an independent media regulator. Proposal No 5 concerns the amendment of the Language Act. According to this proposal, the public performance of audiovisual works and the transmission of television services create an obligation to include a translation in Estonian in order to protect our language space and to stand up for the development of the Estonian language. The explanatory memorandum is very thorough. Our secretariat has, as always, done a very good job. It's all written right here, and I'm not going to rewrite it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U88	Thank you very much, my colleague Urmas Klaas! Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the examination of the amendments. As has been said, there are five proposals. The first, second and third proposals are presented by the Committee on Culture, and they have been fully taken into account by the commission. The fourth and fifth proposals have also been tabled by the Committee on Culture and have been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all the amendments. Second reading of bill 336 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U89	The second reading of the draft Act amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. For a presentation, I would like to ask Rannar Vassilyev, vice-chairman of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U90	Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly give an overview of what happened in the Committee on Monetary Affairs before the second reading. No proposals came from Riigikogu members, committees or political groups within the deadline for submitting amendments. However, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided at its meeting on 7 May to propose two amendments to the draft. The first concerns the objective of harmonising the thresholds laid down in the different sections of the Tax Administration Act. In other words, 'not more than EUR 10' is replaced by 'less than EUR 10'. The second amendment is based on the proposal of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. It is intended to provide that the limitation period for the determination of the amount of the tax shall not be suspended during the liability decision procedure. This was actually in the draft even before the draft came to the Riigikogu, but given that the regulation of the liability decision is expected to be thoroughly improved in the near future, it was initially decided to delete it in the Ministry of Finance. In principle, the initiator of the draft, or the Ministry of Finance, was not opposed to including it in this law in order to avoid a legal vacuum in the meantime. It is claimed that the Tax and Customs Board is currently based on this principle in practice. It was decided in the Committee on Finance to propose that this provision, which was previously in the draft, be reinserted here. Both amendments were unanimously supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In addition, the Committee on Monetary Affairs received a letter from the Ministry of Social Affairs. However, since the Commission considered that the proposal set out in it required a more in-depth analysis, it would be returned to this in the future. The proposal of the lead committee is that the second reading of the draft should be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U91	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Two amendments to the draft law have been tabled, both submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, the second reading of bill 414 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U92	The second reading of the draft Act on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. Maret Maripuu, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Board, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the Act on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and related amendments to other laws, was completed on 10 April 2013. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 24 April 2013. No amendments were tabled by the political groups, committees or members of the Riigikogu on the draft. The Social Affairs Committee was approached by the Ministry of Social Affairs with amendments and, on the basis of these proposals, the Committee on Social Affairs made five amendments to the draft. Following the completion of the first reading of the draft, the Committee on Social Affairs met on 7 May to discuss the draft and prepare the second reading. At the meeting of the Commission the Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas, Head of the Ministry's Health Department, Heli Paliste, Legal Adviser to the Ministry of Social Affairs Teet Torgo and Adviser to the Minister of Social Affairs Anni Tooma took part. Allow me to present the amendments that the Commission has tabled. The amendments complement the extension of the possibilities of providing basic support for the regulation of the start-up allowance for specialist doctors. Within the limits of the budgetary possibilities available, it is reasonable to alleviate the conditions for starting support in order to motivate doctors who start their careers, including family doctors, to choose the regions of Estonia where finding qualified doctors has proved problematic in practice. The list of hospitals where you can apply for starting aid when you start work is extended. Central hospitals with a real place of business outside Tallinn and Tartu are added to the list. This refers to Pärnu Hospital and Ida-Viru Central Hospital in Kohtla-Järve. The period for applying for starting aid following termination of residence shall be extended to five years. According to the current law, a doctor who first takes up work within 12 months of the completion of the residency may apply for starting allowance. The amount of work required from the applicant for starting allowance in a hospital meeting the criteria is reduced from 40 hours per week to 30 hours per week. When calculating the workload, it is permitted to sum up the workload for working in hospitals that meet the criteria. The list of specialties is extended by specialties for which the provision of healthcare is compulsory in central hospitals. The basis for calculating the amount of the basic payment shall also be amended. The starting amount shall be established in the Health Services Organisation Act as a fixed amount and the amount of the grant shall not depend on the number of beneficiaries of the starting amount in the calendar year. In addition, technical changes are made and the draft amendment of the Health Services Organisation Act is amended by reference to the welfare institutions mentioned in the Social Welfare Act and the draft is supplemented by the state fees for the general medical care licence as part of the amendment of the State Fees Act. The Committee on Social Affairs decided by consensus to send the draft to second reading on 15 May, to propose the end of the second reading of the draft, and in the event that the second reading of the draft 392 is completed, it is our proposal to do a third reading on 22 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U94	Thank you very much, Mr Maret Maripuu. There's a question for you. Please, my colleague Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! We are talking about starting grants. During the preparation of this draft, did you have any mention in the Commission of the success of the start-up support so far and of the effect it has had on our health care system and on the possibility of treating people? Perhaps you can also highlight the specifics of the region?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U96	Thank you. In 2012, when this opportunity was created, there was only one young doctor who, after completing his residency, considered the amount of basic allowance sufficient to start working in the rural area. As a result, we relaxed these requirements and conditions, added to the list of central hospitals and reduced the workload required to still find young doctors who would be willing to work in less attractive areas. These amendments were discussed with young doctors and this initiative came from them. I hope that the reliefs that have been made here through the amendments should increase the number of such doctors. In any case, there is prior information that there could be applicants in 2013 more than a year ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U97	No further questions. Once again, thank you, Mr Maret Maripuu. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Five amendments to the draft have been tabled. All of these have been submitted by the Committee on Social Affairs, i.e. the lead committee, and all have been fully taken into account. Second reading of bill 392 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U98	The first reading of the draft law amending the Penal Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkuri of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U99	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As has always been the case in the first reading of the draft legislation in the area of justice, it is not only a good one, but I dare say it is a particularly good one. The purpose of the amendments to the Penal Register Act is to resolve the problems encountered in practice with the implementation of the Penal Register Act itself as well as the organisation of the register's work. The draft law directly affects 600000 misdemeanours and 39000 criminal cases. If you look at how many people this might affect, we believe that it can directly affect some 250,000 people who have a record of a misdemeanour in the criminal record and 22,500 people who have a record of a criminal case in the criminal record. If you look a bit in history, the President of the Supreme Court said in his 2010 presentation: '55.6% of Estonian residents aged 15 to 74 have been entered in the criminal record for committing various offences and offences. Persons who have a valid sentence or who have been punished for an offence constitute more than half of the population. On the basis of these data, one can only seriously claim that only newborns are unpunished. ' Predictably, I also say that if someone now wants to check whether or not their data is available in a valid criminal record, it is possible to go to www.eesti.ee, log in to the criminal register page via an ID card or bank link and make an automatic request there. You can see whether or not the person has been reported in the criminal record. I return to the quotation of the President of the Supreme Court. The honourable Märt Rask actually pointed out that too many acts have been criminalised in Estonia. The Ministry is, as we know, preparing a revision of the Penal Code and we are also dealing with the problem of overcriminalisation. But let us admit that the regulation of the criminal record needs a critical review. I'll give you another example. An article was published in the Eesti Päevaleht some time ago entitled 'Business Rabbits Can't Make Driving Licenses. This article wrote about a person who had been fined and paid for a traffic violation, but before the sentence went out, he rode a rabbit on the bus. As the time limit for deleting data on road traffic offences was thereby interrupted, the person could not take the test to obtain his driving licence. It is true that, according to the law, we have the principle that, if, for example, in 1994 or 1995, or whenever, you received a misdemeanor and you have committed another minor infringement every year, whether you got caught on a bus on a ticketless ride or something else, then the deadline for your very first sentence to be extinguished has been interrupted, and this sentence is still valid. The draft proposes amending the Penal Register Act in such a way that the new sentence no longer interrupts the expiry date of the old sentence and every sentence is extinguished within the time limit laid down in the law. Thus, situations where, for example, a person who was fined driving without a ticket at the beginning of 2010 would disappear 11 months later for driving a car without motor insurance, and 10 months later for talking to a mobile phone while driving, would currently be subject to all three criminal penalties in the criminal record. Under the new regime, the previous penalties would have been extinguished and only the last penalty would have been in place. I will also give an example of the interruption of criminal sanctions. For example, one criminal offence from 1984 is in the criminal record because a person has subsequently committed new acts, which means that the crime committed in 1984 has not been extinguished. Let's look at the other provisions. The draft establishes specific conditions for minors who have committed offences, whose penalties will be extinguished within a shorter period of time than is currently the case. Since committing crimes at a young age is largely a developmental phenomenon and most of the punished minors move away from crime for a few years, mainly through positive socialisation, it is mostly not necessary to maintain a record of the criminal record as a negative sign; rather, it may prevent society from doing so. We also plan to make some other changes. For example, the term'registrar card' is excluded from the law as an out-of-date period when the criminal record was held as a paper file. The places of the law where the term "register card" has been used are reworded according to the requirements of digital data processing. Due to problems encountered in practice in the implementation of the law, the list of data to be kept in the register will be specified and additional data necessary for the exchange of information on the European Union Criminal Records Information System will be added. The rules governing the consultation process and the issuing of a registry notification shall be specified. It is foreseen that instead of the Ministry of Justice, for the purposes of the European Union Criminal Records Information System, the Centre for Registers and Information Systems is the central authority, as it has been established that it deals with the exchange of data between ECRIS. It also provides for the possibility of filing a complaint directly into the criminal record concerning errors in the processing of data, making it easier for a person to protect his or her rights. Data for which there is no legal basis for processing shall not be entered in the new criminal record. In the previous criminal record, information was held, inter alia, for which the new Penal Register Act does not provide a legal basis. In addition, a derogation is provided for from the previous criminal record of criminal and misdemeanour penalties to be transferred to the new criminal record. In many cases, there is no record of the execution of the sentence and of the start of the period for the termination of the sentence. Finding these data from other public authorities has often proved impossible. As a result, many of the penalties in the criminal record have already actually gone out, but they have not been filed in the archives. For this reason, it is foreseen that once the estimated time of expiry of the sentence has passed, it will automatically be entered from the register into the archives. Changes to the deadlines for the deletion of criminal records make regulation more favourable to people. If the time-limit for the deletion of criminal records is abolished, it will be considerably easier for criminal records and practitioners to take into account the validity of the sentence, and the situation of those entered in the criminal record will also be made easier. Although it will be easier for the parties to deal with the penalties in force and their expiry dates, the workload of the parties to the proceedings may temporarily change after the changes have entered into force. It should be taken into account that the workload of processing agents may also increase in relation to the need for requalifications in criminal matters. That's where I'm gonna end up. As a representative of the Government of the Republic, I strongly support the completion of the first reading and the adoption of this draft as soon as possible as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U100	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U101	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Please specify what those penalties were like. If the previous sentence is valid and the second penalty comes up, will the first penalty not be extinguished with the second penalty being imposed, but within the time prescribed by law, that is, a year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U102	That's right, you got it right. Each act shall be subject to the expiry date of the sentence. Of course, consideration must also be given to the fact that misdemeanour and criminal punishment are kept separate. If you travel on a bus without a ticket, you will be apprehended by the police during the year by the fact that you had no motor insurance, then the penalty for travelling on a bus without a ticket will be extinguished within the period prescribed by law, i.e. a year, and the penalty for not making a motor insurance will start running from the moment the sentence is imposed and will expire when it expires. So every punishment has its own time of extinction.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U103	No further questions. Thank you again, Mr. Minister of Justice. I invite Kalle Jents, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to give a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U104	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Legal Affairs on 6 May. The discussion was attended by Minister Hanno Pevkur, his advisor Madis Timpson, and by Markko Künnapu, adviser to the Ministry's Department of Penal Law and Procedure. There was a lively and thorough debate. The Commission also considered this to be a good and necessary draft. These principles, which the Minister has now introduced, are indeed clear and practical and make the appearance of the Estonian people significantly better off in the landscape. In the explanatory memorandum, you could read that about a few hundred thousand people lost their punishment. Indeed, about 55% of the Estonian people have been entered in the criminal record. In fact, it is not as if our people are very low on justice. All these principles were supported by the Commission. But we had a rather thorough debate on how to deal with the archives in the future. The draft law states that in the event of a misdemeanour, the records will be kept in the archives for 10 years and in the case of criminal offences for 50 years. Some members of the Commission pointed out that if a person commits an offence (especially a drastic one when it comes to wrongdoing), he gets the penalty and understands his mistake, that trail will still drag in the archives for another ten years. In legal terms, the penalty that has been extinguished for misdemeanour or criminal offence cannot be taken into account, but subjectively the decision-making person, when he sets the sentence, is still affected by the fact that the person has ever been punished for some sort of thing. Opinions were wall-to-wall, since when the sentence was extinguished, it could disappear at all, so it wouldn't have to be in the archives either, until there was a trace for history somewhere. The specialists responded to us that access to the archives is, of course, more limited, but in certain specific cases, for example, when we talk about paedophiles, this data must be available to certain people somewhere. When the first reading is completed today, we will probably want to discuss this subject with the Members of the Commission. We made consensual decisions to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, to close the first reading and to set the deadline for tabling amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 May 2013. As I said, all these decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U105	Thank you very much, Mr Jents. No questions for the waitress. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 413 amendments. May 29th, 5.15 p.m. First reading of Bill 413 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U106	The last item on our agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act and the Identity Documents Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I'm asking for a presentation of Secretary of State Ken-Marti Vaheri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has initiated a draft law amending the Aliens Act and the Identity Documents Act and related amendments to other laws, as the programme of action of the Government of the Republic for the years 2011 to 2015 states: "To enhance the competitiveness of the Estonian economy, we create a favourable environment for foreign students and top specialists to come to Estonia. This helps to create research and competence centres in Estonia and to ensure a higher quality workforce for companies. The draft has been designed to achieve this objective. First of all, I think it is important to note that there is a world-wide need for skilled labour, and countries are essentially competing to obtain top-level experts that create added value that cannot be found on the ground. Their entry and employment will be made as flexible as possible. Estonia must also become more open in this context and therefore more attractive. However, the law on foreigners is not flexible enough to allow people who create added value to enter the country quickly under the law and start working in a reliable company or studying at the Estonian University. It can be said that the development of this draft is a real example of inclusion. The proposed changes to the draft have been developed by bringing together partners from 30 sectors, including business representative organisations and higher education institutions, at a single table. Partners have raised a number of issues and problems, the main of which were the difficulty and the time and cost of coming to work and study in Estonia on the legal basis. Our good partners in developing this draft were, of course, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Education and Research. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications explained what Estonian entrepreneurs expect from the qualifications of employees. An external labour force survey carried out in 2011 has also revealed that it is at the specialist level that the workforce is most needed and the need for external labour grows from year to year in the fields of education, information and communication and is shrinking in the manufacturing industry. It should be stressed very clearly that these changes are not intended to allow Estonia to experience some kind of'mass' immigration of unskilled workers. Quite the contrary, in order to prevent misuse, the law stipulates that the employer undertakes to pay the top specialist a fee equal to at least the sum of the average gross salary and coefficient 2 for the last year published by Statistics Estonia. In short, I will talk about the main changes to be made to the draft. The draft provides for an urgent procedure, which means that the arrival of the persons required for Estonia will be simplified. These persons in this draft sense are top specialists, researchers, lecturers and students, and their family members (husband, children, as well as adult children who are unable to cope themselves because of disability or medical condition). For example, it is possible to apply for a short or long-stay visa. You can apply for a visa in addition to Estonian diplomatic missions from other foreign representations of the European Union Member States, from a total of 92 countries or administrative territories on the basis of a representation agreement. If you are legally staying in Estonia, you can already apply for a temporary residence permit on a domestic basis, which according to the current regulation is only possible in exceptional cases. If, as a general rule, a three-week public competition and an unemployment fund permit are currently required to find an employee, the change will in all cases waive the obligation to organise a three-week competition, but will not generally waive the requirement for a permit from the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund. The draft will make it more flexible to require transfers of teachers, teachers and researchers from one post to another. In addition, an alien will have the opportunity to work for another employer at the same time. A foreigner may, at the same time, work for more than one employer if he or she is working under the conditions specified in the residence permit. The draft removes the current work permit requirement for students, but the residence permit granted for learning must continue to be used for its purpose, i.e. for learning. The draft provides for the possibility of staying in Estonia up to six months after the completion of studies on the basis of a residence permit in order to find work in Estonia and create added value here. Similarly, foreign students who have obtained an academic degree while studying in Estonia are not subject to the requirement of an unemployment fund permit when applying for a residence permit to work in Estonia or to the requirement of payment of higher wages provided for in the Act, but should be paid on the same basis as Estonian residents. The bill mainly involves expenditure on information technology development. Finally, I would stress that the draft facilitates the arrival in Estonia, the short stay in Estonia or the settlement of foreigners who contribute to the development of Estonian society. We consider it important, together with a large number of partners, with whom the draft has been developed in cooperation and as a result of several compromises, so that the citizens of third countries needed for Estonia's development can come to Estonia to live and contribute to the development of the Estonian economy, science, culture and education. We are talking about skilled workers who are not present in Estonia and who create significant added value in our society. According to the current plan, the law is planned to enter into force. a on September 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U108	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U109	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. Paragraph 1 (31) of the draft law states that the employer is obliged to pay the top specialist a fee equal to at least twice the average wage in Estonia. At the same time, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has addressed the Government of the Republic with a recommendation to consider the possibility of reducing the wage coefficient requirement to 1.5 average wages for top specialists. According to them, this level also gives overwhelmingly priority to the Estonian labour market. By the way, this requirement also complies with the directive of the Council of the European Union. Why was this proposal not supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U110	Thank you very much for your question. In developing this draft, as I mentioned, there were a lot of partners at the table. Employers, trade unions, representatives of many state agencies, the Council of Rectors and universities took part in this work. The claim for a double average salary was reached as a certain compromise. Its aim is to protect the Estonian labour market. Consequently, it is set out as such. I am certainly not surprised, however, that the Chamber of Commerce is in favour of this requirement being 1.5.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U111	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U112	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Many people who want to come to our country to study or work have a family. Can you generalise what the chances of these people taking family members with them are?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U113	Thank you very much for your question. Yeah, in a lot of cases, there's a chance. Firstly, it is possible to do so if you work in Estonia for a short period of time. As I mentioned in my introductory speech, we make it considerably easier to start working in Estonia in the short term. In essence, an alien may start working in Estonia from the same day as the employer has registered his or her employment in Estonia with the PBGB. In the same way, it is possible to give a short or long-stay visa to the spouse and child of an alien after registering a short-term employment in Estonia and obtaining a legal basis for temporary stay in Estonia. When we are talking about a temporary residence permit for work, which means that a person wants to stay here for more than six months, it is just as possible to submit a residence permit application internally after it is clear that a person wants to stay here for so long. The right to apply at national level is also granted to the alien spouse and child of that person. That's exactly what it is to learn. If an alien student arrives in Estonia on the basis of a visa and then submits a residence permit application to the Police and Border Guard Board, the right to apply for a national residence permit shall also be granted to his or her spouse and child.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U114	Please, my colleague Andres Jalak!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U115	Thank you. Dear Minister, Are adaptation measures applied to persons who have been granted a residence permit under this Act and what they might be?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U116	Thank you for your question. This draft provides a clear legal basis for adaptation measures. Our partners have pointed out during many round tables that when foreigners come to work in Estonia, the activities supporting their adaptation are very limited in the Estonian country and the communication of foreigners with Estonian society can remain weak. As a result, the adaptation program is also included in the bill. We want to develop an adaptation programme and set up in Estonia. This concerns the financing of the European Union's new financial perspective, which we can use for this to be expected between 2014 and 2020. The adaptation programme basically means basic training on the functioning of Estonian society, culture and state. This also means a wide range of training courses according to the needs of the different target groups, be they target groups then top specialists, entrepreneurs or researchers. Foreigners are encouraged to offer different levels of language training in parallel, especially for those who stay in Estonia for longer than six months and apply for a separate residence permit for this purpose. The adaptation programme is directed by the Police and Border Guard Board, based on target groups. The adaptation programme shall be carried out once. This means that if a person has several grounds for staying here and is seeking an extension of his or her different rights, he or she will not have to go through the adaptation programme several times. If he has done so at least once, it ensures that a much stronger connection with Estonian society has been established, for example, he has been given language training. This practice has also been taken up in several other Member States of the European Union. We have drawn first and foremost from the examples of Austria, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. I think the adaptation program is important. The change in the rules will lead to greater flexibility and less bureaucracy, so that third-country nationals can be better attracted to Estonia. I think that this is a perfectly sensible legislative amendment, which, after the adoption of this draft as a law, we want to implement, first and foremost, by means of the European Union's instruments.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U117	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U118	Thank you. Mr. Minister! This bill is so wide-ranging and has so much meaning that the Bureau could have put it forward on the agenda that it would have attracted more journalists' attention. Clearly, we need top specialists and skilled workers to contribute to our economy. But who guarantees that it won't happen like last time, that instead of good people, maybe Russian criminals and underworldists will come here? Who's responsible for this? Is it thought out that this doesn't happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U119	Thank you for your question. You are likely to refer to the previous Aliens Act (in this sense, the previous one, that, as we know, the amendments to the Aliens Act entered into force in mid-2012). Before the entry into force of these amendments, there were clear shortcomings in the Aliens Act in Estonia, which you, as a Member of Parliament, probably also dealt with here. I am pleased that these amendments were adopted very quickly when cases of abuse of the law occurred last year. In particular, it was about working as a board member, where the requirements were too low, as you remember. We recall the very heated debates (as I recall in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs) of the previous Parliament on the very same topic of finding a balance in order to protect the Estonian labour market, our security and security on the one hand, and to give the opportunity to revive the Estonian economy to those who bring added value to it. At that time, in 2008 and 2009, these legal provisions were adopted in such a way that there were considerable opportunities to abuse them. In the summer of 2012, we closed those holes. You asked who would guarantee it. These procedures are dealt with in Estonia by the Police and Border Guard Board; the same is the case with the urgent procedures that the bill establishes. Referring to the considerable involvement and the long-standing preparatory work on this draft, which I am sure you have also been able to read about in the comprehensive explanatory memorandum to the draft, I dare say that this draft has received quite good solutions. Yes, many of them are compromises. The last paragraph of page 1 of the explanatory memorandum lists all partners and parties who have taken part in the drafting of the Aliens Act in order to find a possible common element. It's taken its time. On the other hand, compromises can always be reviewed and made by the legislator when dealing with the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U120	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U121	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. From family members, you brought out your husband and children. In addition, you mentioned an adult child who needs care because of disability or special needs. Has it also been said that the parent may need care? There are countries where this care is done in such a way that children are responsible for it. In Estonia, too, children have a legal obligation to care for their parents. A person can care for children, for example, but also for one or both of his parents. Has this been considered?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U122	Thank you for your question. This can be considered during the draft procedure. Currently, these persons are a spouse, a minor child and an adult child who is unable to cope with themselves. I dare say that when we are talking about an adult child who is unable to cope on its own, there are very few exceptions. Probably also the cases you referred to are just as few exceptions, if any. It certainly makes sense, I think, to deal with this matter during the procedure and to ask for the assessment of the parties. But from a humane point of view, it is perfectly understandable that such a case could also be considered in the course of the procedure if one of the top specialists who is wanted to be brought to Estonia cares for a parent in his or her difficult condition.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U123	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U124	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I don't know how much you're watching what's happening in Russia. There's a scandal about signing in now, but at least there's trouble. In fact, the signing-in to Moscow is a great dream for many in that country. Moscow will be allowed to sign in to the person who owns 1% of the apartment. There are apartments in Moscow with thousands of people in it. If there's a law, there's always a passover. What about people with real estate, can they apply for a residence permit on this basis? Can it not be that one piece of land may be owned by several people and is the basis for applying for a residence permit?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question is that a top specialist can be recruited by paying him a salary equal to the average gross monthly wage multiplied by the coefficient 2. It has been discussed quite long and thoroughly in the explanatory memorandum. But there is one thing that has not been discussed there about a resolution of the Supreme Court. In fact, it is possible to circumvent this requirement. Is the Minister aware that such a Supreme Court decision exists? Are these risks taken into account in the preparation of the draft, or are they overlooked and should these risks be re-examined?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U126	Thank you for the question and thank you for the reference to the Supreme Court ruling. I stress that, in the case of working on the basis of a normal residence permit, the wage requirement is the average gross wage in Estonia multiplied by a coefficient of 1.24. In the case of urgent proceedings, this is a double salary. As far as this bypassing is concerned, I think it must certainly be taken seriously. The principle of these legislative changes is that fast-track procedures are designed for companies and employers who are reliable partners in the country. If it can be clearly seen that these are not credible partners, there is abuse and circumvention, then it is clear that the state also has the right of discretion to take measures, not to implement urgent procedures and also to be demanding in the normal procedure of granting residence permits on such grounds. To put it simply, we want this bill to create a more flexible and quicker way of working in Estonia in the short term and the possibility that a person who wants to work here for more than six months will be able to obtain a residence permit more easily. If there are indications of abuse anywhere, it is clear that this goes against the Aliens Act and its amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U127	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U128	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Does the draft also make it easier and clearer for an alien to apply for a residence permit, that he will no longer get the impression that he will not receive this permit without some self-proclaimed mediator, or is it so difficult to apply for this permit that he should start looking for help from Estonia himself?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U129	Thank you for your question. I have a simple question for you: if you go on a tourist trip to a place where you need a visa, will you take care of obtaining a visa yourself, if the office where you can apply for a visa is not located on the territory of Estonia, for example, or if you use an intermediary? I think that when it comes to applying for a residence permit and a visa in order to come to work in Estonia for a short period of time, people and employers are likely to behave differently. Some fulfill these requirements themselves, some use professional help to do so. It is difficult for me to say what this practice is on the Estonian market, and it is likely that one or the other option will be used. It is clear that the draft makes living and working in Estonia considerably less bureaucratic for top specialists, researchers and students, whether in the short term or in the long term. This is done, for example, by allowing a residence permit to be applied for nationally. This is a very important change. Secondly, in order to work and settle in Estonia for a short period of time, a visa can be applied for at the representations of very many of the countries representing Estonia, where it is currently not possible to do so. Even if only these examples give me a clear reason to say that red tape will be cut, the procedure will be simplified and certainly this application will become much less difficult for third-country nationals than it has been so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U130	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Surely you have also experienced that countries wishing to have more tourists there make it possible to apply for a visa at the border and also use other simplified measures. Of course, with a residence permit, things are a little more complicated. I wanted to clarify the position of the Estonian Ministry of the Interior and the Minister of the Interior regarding individuals. Our southern neighbour has quite clearly taken the view that starting from a certain size of investment, a simplified residence permit can be applied for and, as a result, real estate prices in the city centre of Riga have risen about four times. How are we? If you are a private person and you buy a beautiful house in the Old Town of Tallinn, will you be granted a simplified residence permit or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U132	Thank you for your question. I actually answered that one previous question. The fact that a person acquires real estate in Estonia and wishes to apply for a residence permit on the basis of it may not be the real purpose of amending the Aliens Act. It is likely to be a passive investment and it can also be done very well by applying for long-term stay in Estonia on the basis of a visa. The aim of amending the law for foreigners is to make investments in Estonia that are as sustainable as possible and create jobs so that tax receipts increase. We also wrote similar amendments to the Aliens Act last spring, when we processed the same law in this Chamber. The aim is a sustainable investment in Estonia and the development of active entrepreneurship in Estonia. As a result, our approach to granting residence permits on the basis of entrepreneurship is likely to be somewhat different than in some countries south of us. I think we'd rather be like the Nordics. I already referred to Finland. There is also an understanding that there is a need to attract investments that would increase national wealth. As I mentioned, Estonia is also able to stay on the basis of a visa, and it is possible to protect a passive investment in some form; it does not require a residence permit. A residence permit is a step forward. This means that a person makes an investment here, looking a little more into the future and perhaps creating a little more added value than is done, for example, by purchasing an apartment in some parts of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U133	Thank you. Please, Andrei Korobeinik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U134	Thank you. When I read the text of the draft law, I understand that if, for example, one of the top specialists of old age comes to Estonia and receives a residence permit under the urgent procedure, he can stay in Estonia only if his salary is two Estonian average wages. If he retires and his salary is zero, he should leave our country quickly. The question is whether this person would still be able to stay in Estonia, and if so, what should he do.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U135	Thank you. Dear waitress, In the course of the discussion, was there any mention that we could continue to work on the subject and prepare some other drafts to create more prerequisites for inviting a very valuable workforce to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U136	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 425 should be completed. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 425 amendments. May 29th, 5.15 p.m. The agenda is exhausted. Thank you to all present. Closure of the sitting at 15.36 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U137	Thank you. There was no such task directly, but the legal system is constantly evolving and changing, it has always been and will continue to be so. So if there is a need, it will certainly be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U138	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister of the Interior! You didn't answer my last question completely. I asked whether, after the amendment of the law, the basis for applying for a residence permit could be that a person has real estate in Estonia, in a sense. But you talked to me here for a long time about buying companies, developing information technology and bringing qualified staff to Estonia. That's a whole other subject! I understand that Stelmach is definitely stuck in your brains, but I didn't want to touch the subject of Stelmach and Iron at all. My question was motivated by pure and sincere human curiosity. Can you apply for a residence permit on the basis of real estate after the amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U139	Thank you for your question. It is not enough to own real estate alone; other conditions must also be met. The company must be able to create jobs or pay a certain amount of social tax to the state budget during the year. So the answer is simple: it is not enough to own real estate only in Estonia or to acquire it here to obtain a residence permit.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U140	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U141	Thank you very much. We dealt with this issue a year ago when amendments to the Aliens Act were pending, which dealt with these different bases. If a residence permit is applied for for entrepreneurship, it is required that an alien who holds a holding in a company must have invested at least EUR 65000 in the business activity in Estonia. There is also a requirement for registration of a company. These claims, as you remember, we reviewed, and they are, in my opinion, quite exhaustively written in the Aliens Act. In this draft, we are also giving the opportunity to apply for a residence permit for those entrepreneurs who are pushing the start-ups. It has again been negotiated with business organisations; they have put forward their clear proposals. So, what's the change? In order to allow start-ups to start up potentially in Estonia, the draft will waive the requirement to invest at least EUR 65000 of capital when granting a residence permit for business purposes, if the company has been registered in Estonia for less than 12 months and starts operating with state or private investment, after receiving an investment or loan or support from a private fund manager authorised by the State or the Financial Supervision Authority from a public support measure. A simplified procedure for applying for a work permit and a residence permit is provided for in the enterprise starting under the conditions described above. When we are talking about the IT sector, the electronics sector, the communications sector or the education business, the aim of all of this, as I mentioned earlier, is precisely to give the opportunity to involve top specialists in order to start up such investments and thereby create value added for Estonia. This principle should give entrepreneurs the opportunity to involve top specialists and thereby increase tax revenues in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U142	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You have pointed out so well on several occasions that this draft is, or could be, a pattern of inclusion. I'm asking you about two so-called specialists, you two good buddies: did you include Indrek Raudse and Nikolai Stelmach in the preparation of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U144	Thank you for your question. I didn't involve anyone. The answer is no. This draft has been drawn up by experts from the Ministry of the Interior. You can read the names of all partner organisations and their representatives on page one of the explanatory memorandum. As I mentioned, there is a pattern of involvement among these partners, both in the private sector and in the public sector. I think that these experts were enough to deal with this issue. As regards the issue of what the points of contact have been and, for example, the compromises that were already the subject of interest here, I suppose this can be dealt with in several cases during the procedure. If you consider that trade unions and employers, for example, were sitting at the table, it is clear that these interests were quite different in certain respects. But I think that there is a good enough compromise in the draft to adopt these amendments. These changes take into account as many different interests as possible, on the one hand, the need to protect the Estonian labour market, on the other hand, clearly the interest of employers and higher education institutions in bringing brains to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U145	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U146	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about the price of a business-related residence permit. Is this price comparable, for example, to the price in Latvia? How much can be added to the state budget with the money for residence permits?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U147	The aim of granting a residence permit for business is above all to ensure that investments are sustainable. Residence permits shall be granted to persons making such investments. We were also able to discuss amendments to the Aliens Act in this Chamber last year. If this authorisation is granted, it is actually promised that certain requirements will be met: investments must be made, jobs created here, and added value created in Estonian society. A similar model exists in the Nordic countries, for example. In Finland, fewer residence permits were granted for entrepreneurship in 2011 than they were repealed. This was due in particular to the fact that people have taken on their responsibilities and confirmed that they fulfil these obligations and create added value. However, if they are unable to do so, if something happens even in the external environment (i.e. in business it still happens) and they become unable to add value, they will not fulfil their obligations and will have the basis to take away their residence permit. Inevitably, attracting entrepreneurship here in some form means building trust, building trust between the company and the state, between a potential investor and the state. The way in which responsibilities can be fulfilled, the way in which we can also meet the Treasury and bring tax revenue to us depends, of course, in a great deal on the person himself and the environment in which he delivers, as well as on the circumstances in which he operates. An initial investment of EUR 65000 is required in Estonia, it is also stipulated that a legal person should be registered in Estonia. You can then apply for a residence permit. The company must have worked for some time. Simply put, from this I also started my answer to the question of sustainability, the most important thing is that it can be demonstrated and demonstrated that added value is really being created, not over a period of time, but over a longer period. This is precisely the kind of investment that we want to attract to Estonia that can increase our tax receipts and create jobs. As a result, I also believe that there are exhaustive grounds in this law for this type of residence permit.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U148	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U149	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking for your last answer. You said that the residence permit would be granted on the basis of a 'future-oriented promise' and it would be difficult to carry out preventive controls. Consequently, follow-up is necessary. We know that the follow-up of residence permits has been carried out. Can you tell me how many residence permits have been cancelled in the last year and will this bill make the follow-up more effective?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U150	Thank you for your question. We have made ex-post controls, as well as ex-ante controls, more effective with the previous amendments, which came into force, as you remember, from 1 July 2012 and which we dealt with in this Chamber last spring. I'd be happy to send you information on the cancellation of residence permits. I can't tell you this information right now, but I can assure you that the follow-up has clearly become more systematic and thought-out. We have all contributed to this, and so have you, the legislators. I will send you specific information on the revocation of residence permits as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U151	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U152	Thank you for your question. We briefly touched on this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This is once again the same issue as to whether the requirement of double Estonia's average wage, which is a minimum requirement for the involvement of a top specialist in an emergency procedure, is sufficient. If the employer pays less, but the top specialist would still be needed to create added value in Estonia and a residence permit is applied for, could this requirement be less stringent? It's finally a matter of decision-making. In order to protect the Estonian labour market, the requirement is 1.24 times the average wage in Estonia. In the case of urgent procedures, a higher salary is foreseen. This is because the purpose of this draft is to explicitly involve the brains in Estonia. If you ask whether this requirement could be less than twice the average wage over a period of time, it must be said that this is a relatively exceptional case. If we offer less than twice the average wage in Estonia, especially when we are talking about sectors where we are experiencing labour shortages, it seems to me that this is not a very vital issue at the moment. It should certainly be discussed in the course of the procedure, taken back to the table by experts, in particular representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, employers and scientists, and taken apart once again as'sticks'. I think this is a completely legislative decision-making place.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U153	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm going to come up with a little bit of the same subject as the pre-questioners. One specific group of people who are in Estonia has come here to study with students. We also have a number of so-called support projects, for example for Belarusian students, and there are some other projects that we use through various funds, and also by financing ourselves, invite talented and very precisely selected young people. When they stop studying, for example, a Belarusian student does not tend to go back to Belarus, but seeks opportunities in Europe. Quite a number of them have also been interested in staying in Estonia. They are trained by us, often speaking quite well, but probably from the beginning they will not receive a double salary from Estonia. For example, do you think it would be possible to grant an exception to such target groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U155	Thank you very much for your question. That is the exception that this bill makes. In short, the current regulation does not allow foreign students to be granted a residence permit for a longer period in the last academic year than until the completion of their studies. However, the draft allows us to stay in Estonia on the basis of a residence permit in order to find work in Estonia, extending the residence permit for six months after the completion of studies. We also do not apply to foreign students who have obtained an academic degree while studying in Estonia, the same Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund permit and higher pay requirements for working in Estonia when applying for a residence permit. Your question is quite pertinent, it is in this draft. The aim is to encourage the remaining of brains in Estonia that have obtained academic degrees in Estonia and to create added value here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U156	Thank you very much. Please, Andrei Korobeinik, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U157	Thank you. My previous question was not really about the size of the salary. Indeed, this requirement may exceptionally apply in certain sectors. My question was that if a person who has obtained a residence permit under the urgency procedure extends his or her residence permit, do you not consider it necessary that he or she receive a new residence permit under normal conditions? If he falls in love with Estonia, buys a farm on an island of Estonia, then perhaps he should not be expelled, but could be allowed to stay in Estonia if he did a worthwhile job here for a few years. I think the Estonian state would benefit from this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U158	Thank you! I think that this is a subject worth considering and discussing, which could be the time during which the urgent procedure requirements will be applied, and what time will the standard requirements be applied after. If a person has shown himself here, has been a perfectly exemplary expert, scientist or student, has applied for a residence permit, but a certain time has passed, then I think there would be a clear point of consideration here if this person continued to create added value, even though he may have changed his profession. However, I will make one point. I'm not so sure how often such cases happen. However, I think that if such exceptions arise, why not consider reviewing these requirements?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U159	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I would like to ask Mart Nut, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft law. a at the ordinary session of 6 May. Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, Getter Tirik and Laura Sofia Annus, advisers of the Department of Migration and Border Guard Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, and Eero Svarval, Legal Adviser, as well as Mihkel Susi, Head Specialist of the Department of Business at the Department of Economic Development of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, were invited to the discussion on this item. There is nothing very important to add to the substantive discussion of this draft law. The Minister of the Interior gave an extremely comprehensive overview of the content of this draft. In the hall, the question arose as to why two average salaries were paid. As the Minister for the Interior replied today, he replied in the Commission that this was a compromise between the parties, that is the question of the agreement. The fact that there is a question here on a much broader basis than those who may have participated in the preparation of the draft has also revealed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which asked whether it was the two average salaries that would have to be paid, whether this amount could not be lower. On the other hand, the question was asked whether this amount should not exceed two average salaries. I do not dare say whether the two average salaries are the ideal solution, but this is a compromise and I think this compromise is well thought out. The Commission's views on this draft were unanimous. All decisions were taken by consensus. First, it was decided to put the second reading of the draft on the plenary agenda today, 15 May 2013. It was decided to propose the completion of the first reading, to propose a deadline for the submission of amendments. 29 May at 5.15 p.m. and appoint my humble person as rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-15_U161	Thank you very much. Please ask a question, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
