ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start the briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 40 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, 61 missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Culture Rein Lang and Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U2	Let's get to the questions. Previously, we have six issues registered, which is why, ladies and gentlemen, only two more questions can be asked on the ground for each issue. The first question is from my colleague, Kadri Samson, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U3	Thank you. Prime Minister! The programme of action of the Government Union states that, as of 1 January next year, each school-age child will receive an annual sum of up to EUR 130, which can be used to pay for participation in the field of interest, but no funds have been allocated to implement this promise in the budget for the following year. Will the money of the hobby circle become the same eternal political promise as the administrative reform or the double wage promised to a good teacher?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U4	Thank you. Yeah, life's like this once, you have to make choices. Our economic growth this year is only expected at 1.5% instead of 3%, and this is certainly disappointing to us. The government's clear preference has been to increase pensions and next year's budget will increase pensions by 5.8%. One might ask, since this increase is due to the law, what does the government have to do with it? But the law doesn't give money. If you include a ten-fold increase in pensions in the law, this law does not provide financial cover for it. So the government has clearly preferred the increase in pensions. In the following year, pensions will increase 5.8%, i.e. 20 euros per month, with an average pension of 354 euros. We decided to propose to the Riigikogu to increase the income tax exemption for pensions so that the average pension next year would be exempt from income tax. Everyone has a tax-free minimum of EUR 144, while pensioners currently have an additional tax exemption of EUR 192, which would increase to EUR 210, so that the total amount of EUR 354 would be exempt for pensioners. This is what budget revenue allows. It was a tough choice we made. We preferred the rise in pensions and the wages of public employees to the round money.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! The increase in pensions is due to indexation; it is not your choice, it is your obligation. I understand that you do not want to talk about children, but in 2009, when you made a promise to support children's activities, the economic situation in Estonia was more difficult than it is now. In 2011, when you signed this government union agreement, the revenue from the budget was lower than at present. It seems cynical to withdraw from this promise, especially when we recall the statement by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi that supporting children's activities of interest is simply costly and could be the responsibility of municipalities. In 2009, the local governments' revenue base was reduced and, as this could not be done simply, their obligation to support youth sport was abolished, which in general is also an activity of interest for children and young people. Who, according to your understanding, should be supporting children whose parents are unable to pay the participation fee for the circle?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U7	Thank you, good Kadri Simson! Once again, I propose that the index, which in itself gives money to the state budget and to pensioners, be increased ten or a hundred times immediately. If the money comes from the index, we'll ask more than that if the index is so kind and gives us money. After all, money comes from taxpayers. As much as the hard-working hands of taxpayers bring money to the state budget, so much can the Riigikogu and the government distribute it again to taxpayers and non-taxpayers, to all residents of Estonia. There's no money coming from the index or heaven. The money that the government or the Riigikogu does not have to distribute should not be distributed. We have seen and seen in Europe what has led countries to distribute money that taxpayers have not paid to the Treasury.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! You didn't answer my question, instead you chose a bluffing road that has so far been practiced by the IRL. When you promised to raise pensions ten times, I remembered the IRL, which promised to raise the income tax-free minimum to EUR 500, but in fact nothing was done, six years in a row there has not been an increase in the income tax-free minimum. But my question is still about children's circles. The Praxis study showed that most recreational activities are related to art, music, or choir songs. At the same time, less than 5% of all participants in an interest education are involved in technical or electronic circles, as the participation fee for these circles is somewhat higher, the participation of parents is higher and therefore these circles remain inaccessible to many children. How does the government intend to support children's participation in specific circles that require somewhat more resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U10	Yes, the choir is also funded through the Estonian Song and Dance Festival Foundation, but I would like to leave the topic of how the state finances one or the other creative community in the background. There have been quite a number of these types of funding. The income of local governments next year is the highest ever, well above the most abundant boomtime level. It is, of course, always possible for local governments to complain that the income base still does not increase as much as was dreamed, but given the reality of what is happening throughout Europe and especially in the countries around us, I think the increase in local government revenue of almost 7% next year is quite significant. Let it be said once again that the state budget will grow by less than 5% next year, so the income base of local governments will grow considerably faster than that of the state budget. Local authorities should choose very carefully what to spend this taxpayer's money on, whether to spend it on young people, children, choirs, sports enthusiasm, or to make an election propaganda at the expense of the taxpayer. It's a place of choice. Most local governments in Estonia have chosen children to receive money; they have not hogged taxpayers' money for their election ads.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U11	We now come to the issues registered on the ground. Please, first question, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U12	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! I, too, certainly prefer to raise pensions. I also considered this important when, for years, pensions were raised less than the index would have allowed, or were frozen at all. But I'm still asking about the 19-euro child allowance on the first child. That's awkward. So, in Bulgaria, too, we, I have understood, are moving towards the five richest countries in Europe. If you add more money and support for the activities that have been promised since 2007, but you do not want to honour this promise again, then it is what it is. But that's what I'm asking you. Tell me why you're responding to the elderly and the children.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U13	I'm sorry, but I'm not the opposite! In my opinion, it was your good colleague, Kadri Simson, who opposed the elderly and children. Both need support. The needs-based child benefit also supports families with child-rich support. It is not wise to talk about the EUR 19 that a family with 11 children will receive, that is completely wrong. Since the third and more children, EUR 19.18 is currently available for each child. If you refer to the article on the Evening Day, which stated that a family of 11 children would receive only EUR 20 extra support, then I dare say that the author of this article fell into a bucket. The guy happens, they usually do great, but this time they didn't. This 11-member family receives an increase of €191.44 per month due to the need-based child benefit, provided that all children are minors. The evening paper provided biased or false information, and I think it would be appropriate to correct this mistake. I've read the correction, too. True, it was in Delfi. Your claim that there is no increase in child benefit is incorrect.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U14	Good Kadri Simson, there's no reply in Question Time. You may express your opinion elsewhere if you felt that you were misunderstood. Let's keep going. Please, next question, Mr Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U15	Thank you very much, Madam President. Prime Minister! My question is short. Does the 2014 budget provide for the payment of national agricultural payments?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U16	No. As we know, the negotiations for the next budget period were very successful for Estonia. We got much more than we could have expected, even in our most daring dreams. In the pan-European budget, the increase in direct payments for agriculture was initially planned to a much smaller extent than was finally planned, and the amount of funds for rural development was also to be much smaller. In the last round of negotiations, we needed EUR 15 million more so that direct payments would not fall next year. Instead of the 15 million applied for, we gained as much as EUR 50 million for rural development. Basically, it is assumed that with this EUR 50 million we will solve all the problems relating to agriculture. As is known, the RDP funds are authorised to be used for the payment of direct payments for agriculture up to 15%. In principle, these options should be used to ensure that direct payments per hectare are not reduced next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Since we can talk about the budget for a very long time in the next few months, I will stop looking at this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U18	Let's go to the next question. Mr Kalvi Tõll is a question for the Regional Minister, Mr Valmar Kiisler. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U19	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! In your recent speeches, you have stressed the importance of supporting and encouraging entrepreneurship in local governments. We know that the balance of Estonia's emigration has been around 50,000 people over the last five years, and one very important reason for this has been the shortage of jobs. According to the final report of the study 'Voluntary initiatives of local governments in the direction of developing the business environment and supporting entrepreneurship', the business environment is very diverse in regions, despite the small size of our country. There is a need to improve the business environment and increase employment by means of more effective political levers, with the active involvement of local authorities. At the same time, we know about this same study and also about normal life...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U20	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U21	It's not for local governments to worry about entrepreneurship. I'm asking why this is really happening.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U22	Why is that really so? You referred to a study carried out by the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry last year. The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry carried out another survey this year, where it asked not entrepreneurs but the municipalities themselves about the same thing. Of the 226 municipalities, 161 replied to the study, which is considered to be a pretty good percentage of response. It turned out that more than three quarters of the municipalities that responded found that the municipality must definitely support the development of regional entrepreneurship, a little less than a quarter found that the development of entrepreneurship is not the main task of the municipality, but it is a necessary activity, and only 0.6%, or one municipality considered that supporting entrepreneurship was not the task of the municipality. True, we do not currently have a direct record of such an assignment in the law. I, too, have expressed the view that local governments have to worry about this. As you can see, municipalities share this view. The Social Democrats have submitted a draft to make this task mandatory for municipalities. It's really good that way, but as usual, the devil is in the details. The problem is that the bill unambiguously says that additional money must be given and the government is tasked with deciding how much it is. In our current legal space, as it has developed on the basis of Supreme Court rulings and such, this would mean that the will of local governments to support entrepreneurship will remain more or less as great as it is now, but we will have one more dispute in the Supreme Court about how this money and support is.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U23	Please, Mr Kalvi Tough, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U24	Thank you. Good minister! I'm glad you brought our bill into the answer. We really think that the obligation of local authorities to develop entrepreneurship and create jobs should also be included in the COKS. In your reply to us, you said that local authorities may not have the capacity at the moment, and they are too small to deal with this issue. Local authorities are in many ways concentrated in local governments and entrepreneurship is also supported by so-called rural areas. How much funds does the government have in the budget for next year for local government associations and rural governments to improve the business environment and create jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U25	Thank you. The activities of the county councils are usually furnished by the municipalities of the county that are part of the association. They agree on what this self-governing association will do. It's entirely up to them. The law provides a general framework for action. That is why this question is for the county authorities themselves; they must decide what activities they want to see there and how much they will contribute to it. If you ask how the state supports the promotion of entrepreneurship, this is done primarily through the Enterprise Development Foundation, which also supports county development centres. Such an institution exists in every county. Business consultants provide this assistance and support. But, of course, there are also grants from business measures and regional support programmes. We support a wide range of industrial areas, various entrepreneurial initiatives, the development of tourism and all that. In my opinion, municipalities should have sufficient motivation, especially when we think about the fact that, in the budget for next year, the proportion of personal income tax that goes to municipalities represents more than half of total income. Therefore, there should be the will to work hard to ensure that there are jobs, wages are higher and people's occupancy is greater, as this is directly reflected in the municipal budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U26	Now the questions registered on the spot. Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U27	Thank you, Madam President. Austet Minister of Regional Affairs! Geomedia's latest local government capacity study explained the activities of rural municipalities and cities in developing entrepreneurship. A general disadvantage was the lack of systemicity and a lack of focus on measures. Does the central government intend to develop a single set of incentives to develop entrepreneurship in local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U28	Thank you. I have already mentioned that the best motivation is the collection of personal income tax. The local government leaders themselves also point out that if they promote entrepreneurship and, for example, create more jobs, they generate more revenue. The question arises as to how this activity should still be compensated if it is understood that it is useful anyway. Yes, it is true that this activity is uneven. This is largely behind the lack of skills and knowledge. I have pointed out that this is often not a general rule, especially in smaller municipalities, but in many small municipalities, this is the way this capacity tends to be reduced. There is no money to hire good specialists who can advise and help entrepreneurs. Some can only write a direction into a development plan and some create business incubators, for example. The level is different, but there is an incentive to receive personal income tax. The Prime Minister also pointed out that the municipal income base was increasing. I am simply telling you to better perceive these figures: next year, the entire revenue base of the municipalities will grow by 63 million euros compared to this year, which in old money is about one billion kroons. So the growth is very high.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U29	The last issue registered on the ground is Mr Lembit Kaljuveel.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U30	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! You answered Mr Kalvi Tõvi widely and spoke about local government budgets. But I realized that Kalvi Tõvi asked whether there was a specific line in the budget of the Minister for Regional Affairs, which provides for the support of local governments in the field of entrepreneurship next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U31	The Regional Minister's budget includes various regional support measures. Municipalities can apply for support for the creation of business and industrial areas and for strengthening the region's competitiveness. If this support is received, it will be possible to contribute to job creation. Of course, these jobs are created by entrepreneurs, but the sums of money are still very large. After all, we are talking about projects with state support of up to EUR 3.2 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U32	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U33	The next question is from my colleague, Mailis Reps, to Minister of Culture Rein Lang. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U34	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman. Good Minister of Culture Rein Lang! Since today the Riigikogu will be transferred to next year's budget, you will surely already have an idea of what will be discussed at least on the first question. If we look back at the national budgets of recent years, we can see that the cultural sector is not shining with very positive figures. Between 2006 and 2013, the share of the Ministry of Culture in the state budget has decreased from 3.16% to 2.02%. Even if we add the budget for next year, we can see that, unfortunately, this proportion in the state budget has steadily decreased. You have only held the office of Minister of Culture for a few years, but before you, your party associates were on this post. How do you look from the perspective of the Ministry of Culture not only at next year's budget, but at the broader state of the budgets?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U35	Thank you. Beauty is in the eyes of the viewer. All kinds of calculations can be made, and ultimately it can be stated that during Soviet times so many books were issued that they could have been built a four-line road from Earth to the moon. Comparable figures can be compared, there is no point in comparing unparalleled figures. Everything depends on what is considered to be part of the field. These are time-changing sizes. The cultural field is currently not the same as it was in 2005, the basis for the calculation has changed. I think that both the share of cultural expenditure in GDP and the share of the cultural budget in the overall budget is quite reasonable in Estonia. The question is more whether we will be able to use the resources that the country's taxpayer has allocated to culture in a meaningful, sensible and focused way. The Ministry of Culture is definitely working for this. As far as the share of cultural expenditure is concerned, their share of both GDP and public finances will be much higher next year than this year. But I will say one more time that I think these proportions are quite reasonable. If you look at OECD studies, for example, it turns out that the Estonian taxpayer spends on average the most on culture than on OECD taxpayers. This is certainly not a call for a reduction in this amount; rather, it must be stated that this must be the case in a small nation state with 1.3 million inhabitants. That is why one taxpayer's spending on culture is higher than in France or Germany.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U36	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the first supplementary question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U37	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I was convinced that you would certainly try very fluently and convincingly to show that, in fact, happiness in the field of culture has just arrived. But if we look at the increase in the budget, we can see that in the cultural field it has not been as big in the last ten years as it has been in many other ministries. You have spoken quite a lot about a market economy approach to culture, both as Minister of Culture and in your previous positions. You have expressed the idea that culture should manage itself. Are you still following this principle in the preparation of the budget, or have you, as a minister, had to make minor changes in this attitude?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U38	Oh, yeah! An Estonian journalist did not understand English and was not able to write down the point that was made on the stage. This thought was printed, but three numbers later, the newspaper apologized to me, rejecting the same sentence that you said here. It shows that a thought based on a complete lie can lead its own life. I have never claimed that culture must manage itself. World famous writer Tom Stoppard quoted in Tallinn a statement by the British Minister of Culture, which could be interpreted in this way and which we had a discussion with him at lunch. But the Estonian Päevaleht put words in my mouth, as I would have said. I have not said such a thing. I'm sorry you read one page number, but you didn't get the number where you said you were sorry. I'm gonna take another chance to disprove this false information. In my opinion, words are deliberately placed in the mouth of one or another public figure in Estonia so that they will live their lives and be enhanced in the Chamber. This is extremely regrettable. But as regards the state budget and the share of culture in it, I would argue that this proportion in itself and these relations are quite well in place in Estonia today. We have the cultural capital through which culture is financed. It is a quite unique phenomenon and value in the world that must be preserved. There is no point in defying the claims of one or another child journalist!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U39	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U40	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good Minister, thank you also for your previous answer. Indeed, you have very good, fluent and vivid answers. I have to say that I have noticed the debate following this statement, but unfortunately, these excuses do not always reach the social media, which I am sure you are familiar with. A very big debate has been held in the field of culture over the rise in VAT on concert and theatre tickets. I'm sure you know that very well. At a time when this very painful debate took place in this Chamber, perhaps one ray of hope was that, if the economy is going a little better and the years of crisis are over, this issue will be re-examined. So, what's the plan? Are you looking at it, or have you decided that other measures are better?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U41	Thank you. I don't remember anyone saying that this decision has to be reversed. Although it was discussed that important cultural institutions, such as the Estonian National Opera as a public entity, as well as several theatre foundations and performance institutions established by the state, should be compensated for the increase in the rate of VAT. That's what they did next year. It is true that this was done once, so very many institutions had to find internal resources to cover this additional financial burden two years later. State subsidies have now covered this cost. The endless debate as to whether a reduction in the VAT rate could contribute to the spread of culture is, in my opinion, two-faced. We know very well how the Supreme Court feels about the distinction that is a good and bad culture. The decision of the Supreme Court on this matter is in black and white. The only option would be to reduce the VAT rate in the whole area. I am not very convinced that Estonian nightclubs and various other institutions deserve special national treatment in the form of a reduction in the VAT rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U42	Let's get to the issues registered on the spot. Two on-the-spot questions can be submitted. The first question to be asked is Mr Tarmo Leinatamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U43	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. A few hours ago, we could read that the cultural sector was gaining the most money ever, that the increase was almost over 20%. Unfortunately, some cultural workers have started adding 20% to their salaries. Perhaps now is the time and place to shed light on how it is divided into 20% of costs before cultural workers start leasing new apartments, cars and refrigerators.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U44	Thank you. It's early! This 20% is an increase in the Ministry of Culture's budget compared to last year, which does not mean that all this is salary money. We hope that, in the middle, we can raise the salaries of cultural workers paid by the state to around 5%, but there are also certainly those whose wages rise by 10% and perhaps more. We're going to approach it in a different way. The Ministry of Culture will only make final decisions on this by the end of October, in consultation with all possible stakeholders. Today, for example, we met with the Central Organisation of the Workers' Trade Unions (TALO), and our talk was extremely constructive. We hope that tomorrow we will sign the protocol for 2014. I admit that there are certain institutions and places where the pay of people working in culture is very low. But a lot of these people get paid, not by the state, but by the local authorities. In certain places, librarians to this day sincerely believe that the country is the place where their salary number is assigned. No, it's not. It is still determined by the local authority and it is a matter of priority. As the Prime Minister said earlier, the municipality must choose whether the priority is culture and youth or television and street lighting or something else. It is the decision of the local community, each community must make these decisions independently. The time when orders were written on paper from Tallinn by telephone or at a 45-degree angle is hopefully over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U45	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U46	Thank you. My question is quite specific, it is about public libraries. Will and how much increase next year support be given to local governments to buy books and journals in public libraries?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U47	Thank you. The same support for the purchase of information material as in the 2013 budget is also in the 2014 budget. Under no circumstances do I consider it worthwhile to increase this support, as certain people are hoping for at the moment. But I will certainly discuss with all the parties what the future law of the People's Library must look like. This law is in the way of time and the visionary working group should present its understanding of the content of this law to the Ministry of Culture by 1 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U48	Thank you very much, Minister of Culture. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U49	The next question is from my colleague, Urve Palo, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U50	Thank you very much, Honourable Chairwoman. Prime Minister! The country is known to have very little influence on the ability to have children. However, the state is able to influence the conditions under which children grow up. I consider it very important that children are guaranteed equal opportunities for growth and education and that they can develop their abilities. Population scientists have also said that it is the responsibility of the state to treat all children equally, while the municipality provides more money according to opportunities and needs. I therefore ask why the government did not find the opportunity to start supporting children's education of interest from the new year, even though this promise was made. Money is always low, it's a matter of priorities. Why are children not a priority for the government and the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U51	I cannot agree with your statement, of course, as you expect. The reform party's priority is certainly children, and this priority is also reflected in increasing needs-based support. Equality must be treated equally, but inequality must be treated unequally. The unequal treatment of inequalities means greater equality. In this way, equal treatment has always been understood everywhere in democratic countries. Our policy has primarily aimed at helping those children and students who are most in need of state aid. Coming now to the round money, let it be said once again that the income base of local governments will be the largest in history next year. When drawing up the state budget, choices need to be made. It is not the case that pensions do not concern the state budget, because they come from the index and the state budget can only deal with children. The state budget must address both problems, plus hundreds and thousands of problems. In order to increase pensions, money must be found in the state budget; in order to increase the additional income tax exemption for pensions, it must also be found in the state budget. In the same way, it is necessary to find money from the state budget to introduce and increase needs-based learning grants and to pay family allowances based on needs. This budget, which the government is about to submit to the Riigikogu, is a compromise.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U52	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U53	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister! It's a shame you're giving up your pre-election promises so lightly. Today, Jürgen Ligi in the Eesti Päevaleht says: '25 million euros, it is an enormous amount to cling to this idea. ' You have promised to reduce personal income tax by 1% in 2015, which would cost the state budget EUR 80 million each year. Are you getting ahead of that promise, too?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U54	No, it's not. The government prepared the draft state budget for 2014; we have not prepared the draft state budget for 2015. The most important promise of the Reform Party to voters in past elections was the promise to keep public finances in order. The Reform Party is in no way willing to withdraw from this promise; public finances must be in order. If circumstances change and economic growth is slower than forecast, it needs to be adapted rather than trying to keep our promises at the cost of our children's future. Yeah, this hobby money promise is expensive for us too, not just for you. That's our promise. With a heavy heart, we have abandoned this promise in next year's budget. Why have we done this? Because it has been more important for us to have an increase in pensions, an additional tax exemption for pensions, and an increase in the salaries of teachers, police officers, rescue workers and all those who are paid by the state at all. These have been our priorities and they have to be realised by abandoning one thing or another. I assure you that nothing has been given up lightly, all the waivers have been painful, but they have been necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U55	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U56	I understand that this is about priorities. These EUR 80 million to reduce personal income tax are likely to be found, and you have found five times EUR 30 million to help Greece, but there is no money to help children. Okay. I'm gonna give you guys another chance to talk about the kids. What message does the reform party budget send to families with children next year? I mean, all families with children. Please do not start talking about needs-based support and some individual families.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U57	Thank you. I think it is reasonable, however, to also talk about needs-based subsidies, because they create a more level playing field for those who have so far been treated more unequally in society. This is a major goal of the Reform Party, so that all children can benefit equally from the benefits offered by society. If the Social Democrats don't care, I'm sorry. When I spoke earlier about the increase in teachers' pay Our children need to get a good education, a good education with an unreasonable amount of pay, but it is not very appropriate. Education reforms must continue and serve all our children and students, the whole country of Estonia. I am sorry that you see the link between children and the state budget merely in direct payment of money. These links are much more diverse.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U58	Let's get to the issues registered on the spot. Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U59	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Didn't you make sense in the state budget negotiations to deliver half of the promise and create a need-based circular subsidy so that you can still support the weaker, rather than implement the call 'Toome talent back home!' ', but to create these talents on the ground? Secondly, did you not have the idea of allowing, for example, 10 to 12 when negotiating the state budget? A free school lunch for a class of kids to do anything for the kids?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U60	Thank you. I am glad that you can already comment on a budget that you have not yet seen and which has not even been handed over to the Riigikogu. I assure you that a very large part of this budget deals specifically with children. I repeat, the income base of local governments next year will be the largest in history. As a matter of fact, according to Estonian regulations, the task of the local government is for children to have an interest in. I hope that local authorities will pay more attention to children's education of interest next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U61	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U62	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman. Good Prime Minister! As Prime Minister, you are certainly familiar with many areas. One issue that affects children quite painfully relates to a number of judgments, according to which, despite various circumstances, the local authority must provide a kindergarten place, even if it does not have a place to offer. You have repeatedly emphasised here that the life of local governments will be as good as it has never been in the past next year. At the same time, it is clear that these court cases concern the "golden circle" of the surrounding area of Tallinn, whose loan base is already on the ceiling, to borrow more and no kindergarten can be built. Has there been a debate in the government office that could be done by the state for their families and children because the local government cannot help them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U63	It is not true that the local government cannot do so. The majority of Estonian local governments can solve pre-school education excellently. This means that they have solved the problem of kindergarten places. In some municipalities, the problem remains acute, but it can be seen that local governments and local governments are trying to solve the problem. In other municipalities there is a passive expectation that someone should come from somewhere and solve all the problems for them. It has to be said that Kyoto's emission units made day-care buildings across Estonia significantly better; their heat stability is now at a different level than it was before the energy efficiency programme. We have also channelled funds from the European Union to several local governments in Estonia, namely to build kindergartens. Tallinn must, of course, set its clear priorities. The voters of Tallinn should not let themselves be deceived by advertising for taxpayers' money, but they should evaluate the city government precisely according to what it has done for the people of the city.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U64	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will also stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U65	The next question is for Mr Siim Valmar Kiisler, Minister of Regional Affairs, Mr Tarmo Tammelt.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U66	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. One of the biggest political news of this summer was probably that the 20-year-old administrative reform is coming to an end. You have selected the attraction centres in your plan, which should be 60, and in 2017 the administrative reform should be completed. When will you initiate the corresponding bill and when will this bill reach the grand hall of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U67	Thank you. At the end of last week, I sent the draft to a number of target groups and guardians' organisations for public consultation. This draft has been discussed in the think tank for the development of local governments provided for in the Coalition Agreement. Everyone can look at it, make their proposals and discuss whether it is a good draft and whether it should be supplemented or amended in some places. This can be taken forward after the public consultation. The previous version had already been submitted at the beginning of this year to all ministries in order to obtain an opinion. So the bill is gradually coming up. The chosen direction, as you know, the logic of the attraction centres, had already been chosen even earlier during the discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U68	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U69	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Two weeks ago, Mr Prime Minister said that he would not do anything if we were to carry out a violent administrative reform. How is it possible that you haven't negotiated with the coalition partner, but you will continue to deal with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U70	Thank you. The coalition partner and I have been discussing this issue, it is not true that we have not discussed it. We even have a coalition working group in which we discuss issues relating to local governments, including this logic of attraction centres. True, there are different political perspectives here. The question has been how voluntary this process is. I would say that this bill envisages a very, very, very voluntary, say, coordinated, voluntary process. I'd put it this way. In 2009, I submitted a draft of a forced merger. At the time, there was no government support. After that, we have been looking for a compromise and a flexible approach. This bill really reflects that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U71	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U72	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna ask you a topical question. The Prime Minister and you have praised the state budget for next year and the fact that local government revenues are going to grow strongly. But why didn't the Municipal Cooperation Council sign this excellent draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U73	The minutes must still be signed by the chairman of the meeting, and I have signed them every year as chairman of the meeting. But we have always asked for the signature of the local government associations, following good practice. Pretty much half the time they've signed it, half the time they haven't. This time, the municipal associations justified the failure to sign by, first, not satisfying all their demands, clearly having greater wishes for the local government's revenue base. Secondly, they wanted to double the tea deposit. Thirdly, they highlighted educational issues, in particular the division of education support. In fact, the amount of education support in the budget for next year will increase very strongly compared to this year. I think that these differences can continue to be addressed. As you know, the more precise distribution of education support will be determined in a government regulation after the adoption of the budget. I believe that these tensions will disappear in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U74	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U75	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Minister, At the end of August, you gave an interview to a newspaper about a possible new administrative card in Estonia. When the journalist told you that the decision-making power of the residents of Piirissaare municipality was now beyond that, you replied: 'What has been decided on Piirissaare? After all, nothing depends on them! If there is no money, if there are no specialists, if there is no ability just what they have decided? What decisions would they no longer make? ' I think you really hurt that small government and community. You insulted them very much. For over 20 years, I have been very familiar with what has been done on Piirissaar for decades, and I can say that it is all well done. How many more municipalities do you think there are in Estonia, on whom nothing depends? Please name them!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U76	The median average in Estonia is 1700.1800 inhabitants. Half the municipalities are smaller than this. The number of municipalities with fewer than a thousand inhabitants is increasing. We already have municipalities with fewer than a hundred inhabitants, with a number of municipalities with a few hundred inhabitants. There are certainly very good people working there who do their best, but it is not possible to influence processes with such budgetary opportunities and resources. Unfortunately, there are often just spectators, and the main activity is to look elsewhere for those responsible, either from the abstract country as a whole or elsewhere. A typical answer to a citizen who has a problem is that these municipalities cannot help because there is no money or opportunity. I agree not to generalise. There are very many very good local government leaders in Estonia who have achieved a great deal. They have supported the same entrepreneurship that we had before. However, some large municipalities have made very many mistakes. But it turns out from all the studies, a lot of people don't have the ability. If there is no capacity, then there are spectators, not process agents. We're talking about a coercion here. Sometimes life forces itself, no one else. For example, when we talk about the merger between Lavassaare and the municipality of Audru, they were forced to join in life themselves. We should not wait until all municipalities are bankruptcies with 500 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U77	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. In Question Time on 11 September, the Prime Minister said that he did not support the model of the attraction centres you proposed. It is not a matter of discussion, but of the Prime Minister saying that he does not support it. There is a debate, of course. On 14 September at the Rural People's Congress in Põlva, I asked you how you would comment that the Prime Minister did not support your proposal. Then you announced that no government would be eternal. That really worried me. Is this really the reason why the government is breaking down or falling apart? How likely do you think that during the next year and a half, the current government coalition will still support and approve the model of attraction centres that you offer?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U79	Thank you. We need to understand that these processes are very long-term. When we talk about the situation in 2017 in four years' time, I understand that at that time there will be another government and another regional minister. We cannot assume that these exact same people will then be in exactly the same position. The Prime Minister here corrected you by saying that he does not exactly support forced accession. He told you about it, not about the logic of the attraction centers. The logic of the extraction centres has been discussed very much in the counties. It has received the broadest support from the way forward. I have also said that this is not my favorite option, but it is the best compromise between the various forces. As I said, it is very good if we come to this voluntarily, but if we think about the future, 2017 we need coordination here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U80	Thank you very much, Mr. Regional Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Question time is almost over. Thank you very much, honourable Members of the Riigikogu, for asking questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister and ministers, for your answer. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U81	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Prime Minister! We will begin the third Wednesday session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. First of all, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U82	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today launching a draft State Budget Act 2014. In addition, the government submits six related draft laws. The Government submits a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law on liquid fuel, a draft law amending the Law on income tax and a draft law amending the Act on VAT. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi when dealing with these three draft laws and draft state budget laws. The Government will also submit a draft law amending § 3331 of the State Fees Act, in which the Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Research, the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services, which the Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Hanno Pevkur, and the draft law amending the Law on the Law on State Fees and Traffic Act, in which the Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U83	Thank you. Please, colleague Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U84	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here to present a bill to you alone today, but I hope that there will be a lot of sympathizers in the Riigikogu during the procedure of this bill. I believe that three quarters of this hall and probably an even larger part of the whole society will support this initiative that I am doing now. In particular, I am presenting a draft law amending the Local Government Council Election Act, which has been developed by the need to clarify the rules of electoral agitation and advertising, as restrictions on electoral agitation and advertising have often been ignored, using taxpayers' resources through the local government budget for agitation. The draft bans the local government unit from submitting candidates in its advertising and advertising campaigns three months before the election day. This avoids situations where seemingly advocacy promoting local government activities actually promotes the activities of candidates or individuals. In addition, it is foreseen that certain types of advertising and reputational campaigns will be banned at all three months before the election day in order to avoid a situation where the local government budget, or taxpayers' money, is actually financing the activities of candidates. The draft substantially limits the possibilities for a candidate, party or party to apply on the list of candidates, electoral federations or electoral alliances to finance their activities or candidacy from taxpayers' money in disguise and blurry form. As has been said, I hope to receive great support for this draft from my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U85	Thank you very much. On behalf of the board, I have adopted eight draft laws. If the drafts comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to accept them within three working days. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? Prime Minister Andrus Ansip has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's Riigikogu session, which will last up to 20 minutes. The Board of the Riigikogu has agreed to this. According to § 155 (4) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu and the Prime Minister have agreed that no questions will be asked to the Prime Minister following a political statement. After the application, negotiations will be opened, during which the representatives of the political groups may speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U86	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U87	Madam President of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! The government has just handed you the draft State Budget Act 2014. The 2014 state budget was prepared by the government at a time when unemployment in Estonia is falling rapidly and wages have increased by 8.5% according to the latest data from Statistics Estonia. Budget revenue is better than expected. At the same time, our economy will grow more modestly than expected this year, only by 1.5%. The economic situation of our main export partners is also uncertain. We have done quite well so far compared to many other countries. On the one hand, it makes us want to spend more, on the other hand, we all have the lessons of the crisis in mind clearly enough. We need to be realistic about increasing our costs. The state budget for the coming year has been prepared with moderate caution. The budget is socially responsible: we help those most in need. The budget looks forward: we continue important educational reforms, we contribute to national defence and we keep our public finances in order. The tax system remains stable, simple and transparent. The tax burden will fall to 32.1% of GDP in 2014, which is the lowest level in the last six years. The revenue of the Estonian state budget has increased every year; it even increased in 2009. The revenue of the state budget will be EUR 8 billion next year, which is EUR 333 million, or 4.3% more than planned for that year. The budget expenditure for 2014 will increase by 377 million euros, or 4.9% (EUR 8.06 billion). Costs are increasing in almost all areas of government. In the 2014 budget that the government has just presented to you, the structural balance of the general government is planned at 0.7% of GDP surplus, just as we had foreseen in the country's budgetary strategy approved in April. Unfortunately, in nominal terms, this means an additional budget deficit of 0.4%. Total government revenue and expenditure is expected to reach nominal balance in 2015. From 2016, we will be re-creating reserves. The general government debt is 10% of our GDP by the end of next year, which is the smallest in the European Union. In the coming year, people's livelihood will improve. In 2014, pensions will increase by 5.8%. This is probably the fastest pension growth in the European Union. The average annual increase is 240 euros for pensioners, which means 20 euros higher each month. There will also be an increase in the additional tax exemption for pensions. While the current tax-free minimum is EUR 144 per month and the additional tax exemption for pensions is EUR 192, the additional tax exemption for pensions will be EUR 210 from 1 April next year. This means that Estonia's average pension of 354 euros will also be exempt from income tax next year. Next year, the income support rate will rise to over 17%, i.e. EUR 90 per month. The wage fund for public employees will increase by 5.1% next year. The government is of the opinion that the creation of new posts should be avoided. The wages of cultural workers, teachers and care workers are rising above average. The minimum wage for teachers will increase from EUR 715 to at least EUR 800 per month. Such wage increases are largely possible thanks to reforms in the field of education. It is important to ensure quality education and a functioning infrastructure to boost the country's long-term competitiveness. The 2014 budget will support the reform of higher education, the reform of needs-based learning grants and the reform of the school network. We will continue to develop state secondary schools. In addition to the upper secondary schools of Nõo, Viljandi, Läänemaa and Jõgevamaa that were built this year, Võru, Pärnu, Tartu and Jõhvi will receive proper study buildings next year. A reform bringing vocational education closer to the needs of the labour market is planned. Due to the increase in the number of free study places, operating grants for higher education will increase to 136 million euros in the coming year. The volume of education grants on a need-based basis will increase to EUR 15.7 million. The state will invest EUR 143.4 million in R &amp; D next year. We will focus EUR 90.4 million on developing the competitiveness of companies. In the coming year, the state will invest in important cultural objects, buildings and roads in the field of internal security. In 2014, government investment will amount to EUR 832 million, or a sixth of all investments in the country. The construction of the new building of the Academy of Arts can finally begin in Tallinn. The construction of the Estonian National Museum will continue in Tartu and the construction of a new building of the National Archives will begin. The new hall of the puppet theatre will be built and the Ugala Theatre building will be reconstructed, which is the last theatre house where the working conditions have not been modern so far. As a result of investments and rising wages for cultural workers, the Ministry of Culture's budget is growing by 22.8%. More than half of the investments planned in the state budget are under the administration of the Ministry of the Interior. Tartu and Tallinn will receive the new administrative buildings of the Rescue Board and Alarm Centre, Häädemeeste and Võru to the Police and Border Guard Board and to the Rescue Board. Next year, tea is financed with €220 million in excise duties on fuel and €60 million in structural subsidies. Therefore, we are using less European Union money than we have so far. More use of local tax money will make it possible to focus on the development of supporting and secondary routes. We will continue with major transport infrastructure projects. With the introduction of new rolling stock, the quality of passenger train traffic will improve on all lines. Estonia makes a contribution to the Rail Baltic joint company, which is a step towards the construction of the high-speed rail from Tallinn to the Lithuanian-Poland border. We are starting to renovate Tallinn's tram tracks, and new trams are arriving in the capital, starting to travel on line 4. New passenger ships will continue to be built to connect to the smaller islands. The share of income tax to be paid to local governments increases from 11.54% to 11.6%. Local government revenue is expected to increase by 6.6% next year. The total revenue of local governments will amount to EUR 1.481 billion in the coming year, which is more than in any previous year. 10% of the total volume of road funding, i.e. EUR 28 million, will be used to store local roads. A total of about one million inhabitants of Estonian cities will receive clean drinking water by the end of 2014. New street lighting is available in Haapsalu, Jõhvi, Keila, Kuressaare, Paide, Valga and Võru. It is the Government's determination to use 2% of GDP to develop our national defence. Next year, three new barracks will be completed, so that all conscripts will enjoy modern - day domestic conditions. Good Riigikogu! The budget that has been transferred to you has been drawn up responsibly. It works on Toompea and Türi, it does the business of Estonia and you can be proud of it! I call on the honourable Riigikogu to support the state budget prepared by the Government of the Republic. I would like you to have a constructive debate. Thank you and the strength to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U88	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. I invite my colleague, Mr Simson, to speak as a representative of the Central Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U89	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Only good news has so far been heard from this budget. I must acknowledge the government that has listened to the opposition and, above all, this time talks about the person and socially sensitive issues, and so does not raise the dry budget balance on the shield. True, what is the real face of this budget, we will find out here in the Riigikogu Hall by Jürgen Ligi's mouth a few days after the local elections. I'm afraid Jürgen doesn't have that kind of eloquence. So bad news comes after the local election. But I would like to mention in advance some of the outstanding issues in the budget. The government coalition has delayed the increase in the tax-free minimum for five years. This increase is known to benefit primarily those earning the average wage or below. In the spring they were quite optimistic about this, and the IRL made very voluminous promises. However, today it must be said that the IRL seems to be the coalition partner in the government, at least on budgetary matters, whose proposals are ignored, and his words should not be taken seriously. The tax-free minimum remains frozen for the sixth consecutive year. While in 2006 the minimum income tax-free rate amounted to 21.3% of the average wage, only 14.8% in the second quarter of this year. The tax-free minimum should have been raised a long time ago, and the fact that it will not rise next year means that at least one coalition partner would have broken his word. It will certainly be unfortunate for all people who earn average wages or below. I recall the time when the current Riigikogu came together. The first draft law that was passed, still in the drawer of the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, dealt with school food. For years, our country has been one of the leading countries in the euro area in terms of rising food prices, but children's school lunch must still be prepared by school chefs for 78 cents. This draft, which is in the drawer of the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, would raise the cost of school lunch to one euro. There is nothing very proud of it either, but still more than allows for the current 78 cents. I think even the Gymnasium Director on the IRL mayor candidate's team, who mistreated female chefs, would admit that one euro would be helpful. Many parents will certainly be greatly disappointed in the state budget next year by the fact that there will be no round money allowed by the coalition agreement. The programme of action of the Government Union promised this in 2011, namely EUR 130 per year for every child of school age. The Minister of Finance has said that this promise is too expensive and could be fulfilled by Estonian cities and municipalities. But I recall that in 2009, one day before the anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, the budget of local cities and municipalities was cut, the share of income tax they receive was reduced from 11.93% to 11.4%. However, this money could not be taken away simply, it had to be said for which the local authorities would no longer be responsible. Thus, the pre-school institution law was amended, it was said that less money should be spent on kindergartens and youth sport is no longer a matter for municipalities. Municipalities do not have to assume this task, although many of them do so. But the situation of the local governments shows us that this year is another year where the Union of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments could not enter into a cooperation agreement with the Government with regard to the state budget. This temporary cut from 2009 has already been thwarted. That's not fair. I think it is not fair what we heard in this Chamber an hour ago when the Prime Minister opposed children to the elderly. He said that children could not be allowed anything in this budget because they were promised something to the elderly. So what do you promise? You are simply fulfilling your obligation, which must be done in accordance with the law. A huge increase in pensions cannot be shown as a result of the increase in pensions, as § 26 (1) of the State Pension Insurance Act states: "By 1 April of each calendar year, state pensions calculated on the basis of this Act are indexed with an index whose value depends on the annual increase in the consumer price index and 80 per cent on the annual increase in the share of social tax pension insurance. ' It's not a job win, it's just a duty. It is not nice to decorate yourself with foreign feathers or to blame pensioners for not fulfilling their promises to children. It is also interesting that the coalition, which has defined itself as a supporter of low taxes, is engaged in disguised taxation at the same time. I am not talking about increased VAT or other consumption taxes at the time; I am talking, of course, about the amount of unemployment insurance which affects both the employer's costs and the net salary of the employee. Although the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund proposed to reduce unemployment insurance contributions next year, we do not see this from the budget. We see that it is appropriate to raise money in reserve, because the unemployment fund also collected a surplus of around 121 million euros last year. The total liquid assets of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund will amount to EUR 786 million next year. Against this background, it seems strange that unemployment contributions will not be reduced. The answer is provided by the fifth page of the explanatory memorandum to the state budget, which can be seen from the structural surplus. The translation of these fifth-page sentences into the human language reads as follows: the rate of unemployment security cannot be reduced, as the slower increase in the unemployment fund's reserves will worsen the structural position of the state budget. The reduction of the unemployment insurance rate is no longer planned in the near future. In summary, if more people are spoken about, a pensioner, a teacher and a public employee, this is the right approach to the state budget, but we should also talk about a child or a parent. We should talk about a person who earns an average salary or below and is struggling to pay home expenses. We should talk about the man's closest aide, the municipality and the city. The Centre Party, with its amendments, is doing all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U90	Thank you. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Sven Mikser, to represent the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, what the Prime Minister has already had many times today to call one of the government's top priorities, namely children and families with children. 1 January next year will be an extremely sad and regrettable day, when exactly 10 years will pass since the support of the first child in the family was last raised. The second child's allowance was increased even longer ago. Regrettably, when speaking about child benefits, the Prime Minister has already done enough to offend children and parents, so it remains to be hoped that the increase in child benefits will not be discussed, for example, as a result of the rounding-up of subsidies in the course of the changeover. It must be acknowledged that as long as Mr Ansip is the Prime Minister of Estonia, child benefits will probably not rise. One can only wonder at the folly of the campaigners of the Reform Party who, just a few weeks ago, tried to understand something else with the big poster campaign. Let us not speak of the need-based support as a step forward! In fact, it means a lot of work and paperwork for social workers, but it means a lot of disappointment in families when the actual grant was found out, and finally ten times the number of families receiving the aid that was promised. This is a social failure that should not be bragging about. It has now become clear that there will be no round money in the budget for next year either. One of the previous coalitions reached at least the bill, which, indeed, was not passed by law in the Riigikogu. Now about pensions. The supplementary income tax exemption for pensions was created at the time, knowing that the average old-age pension should be exempt from income tax. Thus, the Social Democrats certainly support an increase in the tax-free rate of pensions. Unfortunately, that is all the government is offering us, despite previous promises that there will be an increase in the overall tax-free rate. Raising the overall tax-free minimum is, of course, costly and will not do much here in one year, but something should be done. When the general income tax exemption was introduced, it was considered appropriate at the time that the amount should be equal to the minimum wage. From next year, this gap is already more than EUR 200 per month. How big does it have to grow to make this issue topical to the government? The clear preference of the government union is a fall in the tax rate that will enter into force in 2015, which will benefit more wealthy people. This is essentially the only reason why the overall tax-free rate cannot be increased. The Social Democrats believe that the right and equally treatable step would be to increase the first-degree rate, i.e. the tax-free rate. Now I'm talking about a raise. The Prime Minister promises a general wage increase of 5.1% for the public sector in the budget for the new year, but he has promised to raise the teachers' minimum wage to EUR 800. However, given the current size of the teachers' minimum wage, it is not difficult to calculate that the Minister of Education needs to find somewhere further 6% at the expense of the 'internal reserves' so that even this modest promise can be fulfilled. When asked politely, to what extent does this search for internal reserves mean a loss of access to education? You can explicitly ask how many schools will be shut down. Has it already been decided, and if so, who and where did it decide, to exclude the salaries of support specialists from the responsibilities of the state? Or is it still hoped that ambiguity in the responsibility for this salary will allow the local governments to be fingered indictably? You don't have to do pay business that way! Teachers have the right to agree on a real wage policy, and the government has a duty to do so. The vast majority of society has realised that teachers' wage levels have a direct link to Estonia's development and this salary should start at least from the Estonian average. Speaking of the municipalities to which the Prime Minister promised an unprecedented increase in revenue, it should be noted that, in the context of the overall increase in revenue, the volume of the Equalisation Fund will not increase. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U92	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U93	This, however, means further deepening the backwards of poor and poorer municipalities, not the other way around. Perhaps there is no intention of unequal treatment in order to achieve greater justice. Finally, the balance of the budget. Another ten years ago, members of the government said that every year the state budget has to be left in surplus. In fact, our budget has been down for many years. The current government is also talking about balance over a very long period of time, although it is doing so very quietly, hoping that no one will notice. The government debt burden is increasing strongly, which will be almost twice as high next year as in 2011. As has become a sad practice, the unemployment fund smooths out everything else. In practice, an "additional" income tax has been introduced with an unduly high level of unemployment insurance, which is only paid by the recipients. Thus, the income tax is essentially 2% higher for recipients than for those who live on dividend income. There is nothing to justify this injustice. In unemployment insurance, as the current policy continues, reserves will be 33% higher than required by the end of next year. These reserves are already so large that they will enable the so-called security package of labour market reform that has been delayed and finally watered down in the middle of the crisis to be put into effect. Using the resources of the Unemployment Insurance Fund in a targeted way could even be done by lowering the rate of payment. Finally. In my opinion, it is truly cynical when the members of the government union aspire long ago to the authorship of fictional and other ideas that have been put forward. This is the case with the need to raise the tax-free minimum. Our finance minister claims that this is his brilliant fiction, and conservative coalition partners are trying to overwhelm the minister's master with truly sci-fi tax-free revenue numbers, which are to be established immediately. In addition, they declare loudly the need to double the teacher's salary in the coming years. It's so beautiful that you can believe it! But the closer we get to handing over the draft budget, the more it becomes clear that this is all that we are talking about, because in fact, the government's priority is to give gifts to the most wealthy. Estonia's problems are deeper than one year's budget. We need a policy, including a fiscal policy, which would tell all Estonian people that the state needs them, even if they were born into a poor family, if they live further away from Tallinn and other centres, even if they have lost their jobs. This is not what the government's budget priorities and the budgets for the past few years tell us.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U94	Thank you! I would like to ask for the floor as representative of Mrs Iva Isamaa and Mrs Res Publica's Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U95	Honourable Chairman! Prime Minister! Colleagues! The central issue of the national budget must be the measures that can increase people's incomes and improve their livelihoods in a responsible and sustainable manner. The 2014 state budget focuses mainly on raising people's incomes. Despite the slowdown in economic growth in the last two quarters, our economies have done well in recent years compared to most European countries. Jobs have been created, businesses have returned to profit, and people's wages have started to grow slowly. The Ministry of Finance forecasts an overall wage increase of 6.8% next year, while the wage fund of the recipients of the state budget will increase by 5.1%. Here comes the money to increase the income of policemen, rescuers and also cultural workers. I consider it particularly important that the minimum wage for teachers will rise for the second year in a row, amounting to EUR 800 next year. The municipalities receive more salaries so that the teacher receives an average salary of EUR 960. Pensions will also rise for the third year in a row. It is good to know that we are prepared to take the first step in increasing the tax-free share so that income tax does not pinch its share of the pension increase, so the tax-free share of pensions increases from EUR 336 to EUR 354. This is a fundamental decision that ensures that the average pension is exempt from tax. IRL believes that it is important that the state budget ensures the continuation of all planned educational reforms. It is planned to implement a reform that brings vocational education closer to labour market needs and to move to a new, more quality-based organisation of vocational education and training. The development of state secondary schools continues, ensuring a strong and selective secondary education in the county. This will reduce the concentration of gymnasts in larger cities. There is money for free higher education starting this autumn and for need-based grants for the whole year. It is important that the income base of local governments, i.e. income tax receipts, grows by 7%. Local authorities will receive 10% of the total funding for road maintenance for the storage of public roads and 28 million euros will go directly to local governments for the storage of local roads. In order to increase the revenue side of the budget and reduce tax fraud, the budget provides for additional money for the Tax and Customs Board. Last year, at the beginning of the budgetary procedure, I expressed the hope that this procedure would be thorough and constructive in the Riigikogu. The budget has always received a large number of amendments during the procedure. I expressed the hope that they would be presented with thought and consideration for the opportunities of the state, i.e. taxpayers. That's what I said a year ago. Unfortunately, we were disappointed last autumn. The vast majority of the proposals on the budget were not in line with the laws in force in terms of their source of financial coverage, and we only found out on several nights when reading about the newspaper why part of the opposition held night sessions. We hope that this time the procedure will proceed in a more constructive atmosphere and in a responsible manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U96	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Good luck working for all of us!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U97	Let's keep going with the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Law on the Organisation of the Defence Forces, initiated on 24 September, and related amendments to other laws, of which the commission is the Committee on National Defence; in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. a Draft Act amending § 5 of the State Family Benefits Act, initiated on 24 September, of which the commission is the Social Affairs Committee; in the Estonian Central Party faction. a Draft Act amending § 16 of the Road Act, initiated on 24 September, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs. I have forwarded the inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and returned the inquiry No 359 to its performers. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 79 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 22.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U98	The third reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Supervision Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law supplementing the Environmental Supervision Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, 443. Please vote! 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U99	The second reading of the draft Act 450, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion and the ratification of the Protocol thereto, begins. Peter Laurson, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U100	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft Act 450 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion and related protocol was held on 11 September. a. No amendments were tabled to the draft by 15 a.m. on 16 September. The Committee on Finance decided to put the draft on the Riigikogu's agenda for second reading today and to propose that the second reading be stopped and put to the final vote. The decision was taken in a consensual manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U101	Thank you. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. As there are no amendments, we can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote on the final vote on the draft Act 450 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion and related protocol. Please vote! 58 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U102	The next item is the second reading of Bill 440 of the Law on Succession initiated by the Government of the Republic, the notary's remuneration for the amendment of the Law and the Law on Notariat and related amendments to other laws. For a presentation, please, a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Neeme Suur.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U103	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft law amending the bill 440, i.e. the law on succession, the notary's remuneration, the law on notariales and related acts, took place on 10 September. The deadline for tabling amendments was 16 September. One amendment was received by this deadline from the Chamber of Notaries. The Committee on Legal Affairs dealt with this draft twice: on 17 September, with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Chamber of Notaries, and on 23 September, when final decisions on the amendments were adopted. In particular, the amendment proposed by the Chamber of Notaries concerned the remuneration of the notary for the omission of his duties. If the draft stipulates that, in the event that the notary action is cancelled, but the notary has prepared the operation, for example, the draft contract, he shall be entitled to charge for the work he has done according to the amount of time he spent preparing the project. The Notaries' Chamber proposed to maintain the current rules and to set the notary's fee for the cancelled transaction, not according to the time spent, but based on the value of the transaction. There was a lively debate in the Commission where representatives of the Chamber of Notaries defended their position. The representatives of the Ministry thought that a time-based notary's remuneration could be fairer. At the same time, the representatives of the Chamber of Notaries argued that it was an official act which the notary could not refuse, but that the official acts should be remunerated on the basis of the same principles. Second, they thought that it would still be fairer if a person came to the notary and knew what would happen to him. If the notary has an hourly fee, it should be taken into account that the number of hours the notary spends in preparing the project can be very different. In the case of a transaction of low value, it may be very high, but a notary may spend very little time on a transaction of very high value, in which case the time-based remuneration would be disproportionate. The Commission heard the views of both parties and adopted a decision on 23 September. The Commission considered that the arguments put forward by the Chamber of Notaries were stronger than those of the Ministry, and it took note of the notaries' proposal. The Commission is therefore proposing three amendments. The first of them is standard engineering. It amends the title of the draft law, i.e. it also spells'modification' in addition to the title. The original title did not make any changes to the laws covered by the draft law, but now the title does. The second amendment is substantive. The Commission takes the view that charging for the abandoned transaction must be linked to the value of the transaction and not to the time taken to prepare the transaction, as initially foreseen in the draft law. The third amendment is also technical, i.e. it deletes subsections 3 (4) and 3 (5) from the draft. This relates to the second amendment. The proposals were voted through and were all approved by the Commission. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today, 25 September, and to propose that the second reading be stopped. When the second reading is closed, the proposal is to hold a third reading and a final vote on the draft on 26 September 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U104	Thank you very much, Mr Neeme Suur. You have a question. Please, colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U105	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! You said that there were three amendments to this draft law, which were unanimously supported by the Commission. How do you feel, now that these three amendments are taken into account, do both sides, I mean the House of Notaries and the Government, agree with these proposals? Did it feel that the Commission still had disagreements after voting on the amendments that are now going into the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U106	Thank you. In fact, the representatives of the government acknowledged the arguments of the other party. It has also become clear that there were no disagreements with the Minister. This change is not so fundamental. If the House of Notaries thinks such an approach is more correct, then so it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U107	No further questions. Thank you once again, Mr Neeme Suur. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let us go to the amendments. As has already been said, there are three amendments to the draft. The first is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and this proposal has been fully taken into account. The second and third are also from the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Second reading of bill 440 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U108	The second reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. For a presentation, Mr Kalle Jents, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Speaker's Committee on Legal Affairs!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U109	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs also discussed this draft on 17 September. Councillors Madis Timpson and Kätlin Ots of the Minister of Justice and Kati Taste-Pärnna, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure, participated in the meeting. The deadline for the submission of amendments was 16 September, but no amendments were received. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to consensually send the draft to the plenary agenda by 25 September, i.e. today (by all 8 members present), propose that the second reading be terminated and, if it is terminated, send the draft to the third reading by 26 September (by all 8 members of the Committee on Legal Affairs). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U110	Thank you very much, Mr Jents. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. As there were no amendments, the second reading of Bill 441 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U111	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Civil Status Acts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Population Register Act, the Local Government Organisation Act and the State Fees Act. For a presentation please, Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Civil Status Act is a relatively new law and entered into force in 2010. The draft amends and clarifies the law which came into force in 2010, as the work has revealed some inaccurate regulations, legal gaps and inconsistencies. Many of the standards that have so far been implemented by the regulation of the Minister for Regional Affairs are now being transposed into the law because they have the right place there. Let me tell you a little bit more about some of the more important points. People, I think, are most affected by the simplification of the procedure for determining matrimonial capacity. It is now a general rule that if a person living abroad wishes to marry in Estonia, he or she must bring a certificate of matrimonial capacity from his or her country of residence, i.e. prove that he or she is not already married. But here is the problem that some countries do not issue a certificate of matrimonial capacity to those who are not their citizens. In this case, Estonian citizens must apply in Estonian courts for permission to marry in Estonia. This has also been reflected in the press because it has caused people discomfort and discontent. The draft creates an exception for an Estonian citizen and an undefined citizen. If these persons do not receive this certificate from the country of residence, they shall provide written confirmation with the civil status officer that they do not have any impediments to marriage. Foreigners who have lived in Estonia for at least six months immediately prior to their application for marriage and whose data are in the population register are also exempt from the production of a certificate of matrimonial capacity. The draft amends the period of validity of the right to act as civil status officer. This amendment is primarily intended for the administration. The validity of the right is extended from three to five years and it will facilitate the acquisition of a new temporary right (in the same way as in the case of a clergyman's right to marry). More changes. A legal basis for entering gender change data in the population register will be established. At the moment, this regulation is in the regulation of the Minister for Regional Affairs, but it is being introduced into the law, where it is in the right place. The competence of the municipality and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to conduct the civil status test and the pre-training course is specified. Clearer legal bases will be established for issuing evidence and civil status data on the archive. The administrative procedure for forwarding the identity document to the issuer of the alien deceased shall be simplified. The number of paper documents will be reduced when the marriage is concluded by replacing the marriage record with a pre-filled print of the marriage entry. This amendment allows an official to take a certificate at the time of the marriage registration and to give it to the spouses as soon as the marriage is concluded. It reduces the number of paper documents to be drawn up in the procedure. In addition, there is a legal basis for recourse to the courts to establish a legal fact in civil status data (and so far there was no legal basis in the law). The amendment to the Local Government Organisation Act eliminates one contradiction. At present, the parish and city secretary have a duty to ensure the legality of civil status procedures. For example, in the case of a large government such as Tallinn, it is probably disproportionate to require the city secretary to be personally responsible for the accuracy of all these entries, the official who makes the entries is still responsible. The Population Register Act shall be supplemented by the inclusion of relevant data and supporting documents. The State Fees Act provides the legal basis for entering data on gender change into the population register. Those were the most important points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U113	Thank you very much, Minister. This is about my colleague Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U114	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. § 1 of the Bill states that municipal and municipal authorities register births and deaths. That's what county governments do. Perhaps it would be better to put all this together in one place so that there is no need to run between the county government and the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U115	We've been over this. In particular, since some small municipalities have so little of these activities, maybe only a few births are recorded a year and then the skill of the officials is inevitably relatively low. Many of these operations go elsewhere anyway. In fact, there is no limit to which municipality can do so. But we have stuck with the current regulation because a person would have more places where he could register, for example, the birth of a child or the death of a loved one. If there was only one place in the county, it could mean logistical problems for some people and maybe cause dissatisfaction. Although it is true that a large number of these entries are made in these individual places anyway. This is something that could still be discussed in the Commission. From our perspective, I rather think that the quality of the entries would therefore improve. The question is that the other half of this is access to services for people in smaller places.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U116	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Now I ask for a presentation by Siim Kabritsa, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Speaker's Committee on Legal Affairs!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U117	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Legal Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Civil Status Act, the Population Register Act, the Local Government Organisation Act and the State Fees Act at its meeting on 16 September. The meeting was attended by Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler, Head of the Department of Population Operations of the Ministry of Interior Enel Pungas and Legal Adviser to Regional Development Department of the Ministry of Interior Epp Hannus. The Minister for Regional Affairs presented to the Commission the content and objectives of draft 464. The additional questions raised at the meeting and answered by the Minister and the officials of the Ministry of the Interior concerned in particular state fees, statistical data and the time of entry into force of the Act. It was also discussed whether the state should issue a certificate on a form on the occasion of marriage and the birth of a child. Now for the purpose of the law. As the Minister also mentioned, the Civil Status Act entered into force on 1 July 2010, but a number of legal problems have emerged in practice. There is a need to improve this law in order to overcome inaccurate regulations, legal loopholes and conflict-of-law rules. It fills these legal gaps, eliminates inconsistencies and creates clear rules so that administrative procedures can be carried out effectively, clearly and lawfully. The draft extends the period of validity of the right to act as civil status officer and makes the acquisition of a new temporary right similar to that of a clergyman's right to marry. The competence of the County Government and the Ministry of Internal Affairs in carrying out the civil status examination and prior training is specified. Clear legal bases will be established for issuing evidence and civil status data on the records, simplifying the administrative procedure for transferring an alien's identity document to a foreign embassy, reducing the number of paper documents at the time of marriage, replacing the marriage protocol with a pre-filled print of the marriage entry, simplifying the procedure for determining the matrimonial capacity for the citizen and creating a legal basis for the transfer of gender data to the population register. The amendments to the Local Government Organisation Act eliminate, in particular, the conflict with the Civil Status Act as regards the competence of the Municipality and City Secretary in ensuring the legality of civil status procedures. The amendments to the Population Register Act and the State Fees Act are primarily due to amendments to the Civil Status Act. The Population Register Act is supplemented by the relevant data and data entry documents. For reasons of legal clarity and rationality, a legal basis shall be laid down in order to be able to exempt a document obtained or created in the course of an administrative procedure which is registered in the population register from the obligation to register the institution in the administrative procedure. Access rights to data will also be specified. The committee decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 25 September (there were 7 members of the committee in favour of this decision, no respondents or abstentions), to propose that the first reading be stopped, to appoint Mr Kabrits as rapporteur and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 9 October 2013. These last three decisions were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U118	Thank you very much. This is about my colleague, Reet Roos.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U119	Thank you. Dear waitress, Maybe I should have asked the Minister, but I didn't make it. Do you know how many marriages have to be registered by a clergyman and a regular marriage registrar in order to be in shape?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U120	Thank you. According to the order so far, the clergyman had been granted this right for five years. During that time, he may have made marital matters. When he entered into 25 marriages during that period, that right was automatically extended over the next five years. The draft also proposes extending the right of civil status officials to carry out these activities from three to five years in order to ensure that the situation is the same as that of the clergy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U121	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Kabrits. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 464 amendments. 9 October at 5.15 p.m. First reading of Bill 464 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U122	The first reading of the draft Act 466 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion and the accompanying protocol, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia and the United Mexican States, begins. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi for the presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of double taxation agreements is to encourage investment, ensure equal treatment of persons and eliminate double taxation. In order to achieve this objective, the Agreement shares tax rights between the Contracting Parties, avoiding discriminatory taxation and preventing tax evasion. Estonia has ratified double taxation conventions with 52 countries. The agreements are based on the Standard Agreement of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Differences arise from agreements between national delegations. The tax agreement with Mexico was initialled after the first round of negotiations. The most important differences between the Estonian-Mexico Agreement and the OECD Standard Agreement are as follows: Only the State of residence for tax purposes of the recipient (the OECD Standard Agreement divides the right of taxation between the State of residence and the State of source of income). The company will have a permanent establishment in another country if the services have been provided within six months (this provision follows from the comments of the OECD Standard Agreement). The concept of real estate is also broader in the agreement with Mexico than in the OECD Standard Agreement. At the request of Estonia, the contract contains property-related claims, the addition of which allows the right to tax property income to be maintained to the extent specified in the Income Tax Act. The DTC does not provide additional tax opportunities for countries, but limits the existing tax rights established by national law. The primacy of foreign treaties over national law is laid down by the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and, according to it, the provisions of the foreign treaty apply in the event of conflict between Estonian laws and ratified foreign treaties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U124	Thank you very much. There are no questions. Mr Laurson, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U125	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act 466 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the United Mexican States on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion and the Protocol thereto was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs at its meeting on 16 September. Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the draft as the initiator's representative. There were questions during the debate. With regard to Article 6, it was asked what is meant by property income, which Estonia should have in mind. Real estate is defined by this contract on the basis of the law of the country in which the property is located, such as livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry. Interested in how many people are involved in this agreement. Eesti Pank's statistics do not reflect this; rather, it is a prospective approach. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the Riigikogu agenda on 25 September and to propose that the first reading be terminated. The deadline for tabling amendments could be set at 5 p.m. on 3 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U126	Thank you very much. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 466 amendments. a 3 October at 5 p.m. First reading of Bill 466 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U127	The first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Plant Protection initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please report to Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The development of the draft law amending the Plant Protection Act is due to the reorganisation of the R &amp; D institutions of the Ministry of Agriculture and the need to update the terms used in the Plant Protection Act and the norm technical note. There has been a restructuring of research and development institutions in the area of government of the Ministry of Agriculture, during which the Estonian Institute for Agriculture and Jõgeva Plant Breeding was merged and the new institution was named the Estonian Plant Production Institute. The version of the current Law on Plant Protection states that the Estonian Institute for Agriculture has certain rights and obligations regarding the technical control of plant protection products. At the merger of existing research and development institutions, the rights and obligations of the Estonian Institute for Agriculture and Jõgeva Plant Breeding were transferred to the new institution. The purpose of the amendment of the Plant Protection Act is therefore to delete the Estonian Institute for Agriculture from the text of the Act and to refer to the sole research and development institution of the Ministry of Agriculture. The draft provides for implementing provisions to give certainty to the persons concerned that the certificates issued by the Estonian Institute for Agriculture will remain valid. Some adjustments are also made to the terms used in the Plant Protection Act in order to ensure better legal clarity. The Law amending the Law on Feedingstuffs repealed the provisions of the Law on Plant Protection, which regulated the chemical treatment of wood and the labelling of wood products with a wood mark. Wood and wood products may be marked with the mark HT if they have been pre-cooked. The term "wood mark' was used only for the chemical treatment of wood material. As this method is no longer allowed, the word 'wood mark' is deleted from the text of the Plant Protection Act. The technical note of the Plant Protection Act will be updated by deleting the references to the repealed Directives and replacing them with a reference to the new relevant Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U129	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no questions. Priit Sibula, Member of the Rural Commission of the Speaker's Board, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ministers! Colleagues! The Rural Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Law on Plant Protection at its meeting on 16 September, where, in addition to its members, Ms Evelin Hillep, Head of the Plant Protection Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, and Külli Kaare, Head of the Research and Development Department, participated. As the Minister has already given us an overview of the substance of the law, I will say a few words about what was in the debate in the Commission. A number of issues, which the Minister has already spoken about here, were also discussed in the Commission. However, the debate in the Commission was a little wider, not just about specific lawn areas. The members of the Commission were interested that, as the new authority has been operating for two and a half months, how the time has gone, whether any problems have arisen. We have received an answer that no problems have been identified. I was wondering if and how many redundancies took place. We learned that the director of a former institute, who did not want to continue working as Head of Department of the Ministry, was made redundant and that there were no other redundancies. Wages have been raised. The councils of the two previous institutes were dissolved and a new Scientific Council was set up. The Commission made consensual decisions to terminate the first reading and to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 10 working days in accordance with the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure; amendments may be tabled until 5.15 p.m. on 9 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U131	Thank you very much. No questions for the waitress. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 473 amendments. 9 October at 5.15 p.m. First reading of Bill 473 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U132	The first reading of the draft law amending the Forest Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U133	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a draft law amending the Forest Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act submitted by the Government. There will be more informative material put behind me, because I think it would be worth stopping a bit before serious discussions about the state of our forests today. The fact that Estonia is one of Europe's most forested countries, half of our land is forested, should certainly not be a surprise to you people in this hall. In comparison, the forest is much more than in the late 1930's, when about 20% of our territory was covered with forest, far from half the territory. Every once in a while, people ask how much for one person we get into the woods. As a figurative example, if we split the whole forest between the people of Estonia, each Estonian person would have a piece of forest about the size of Tammsaare Park. The existence of a great treasure, of course, means that this treasure must also be carefully guarded. About a quarter of our forests are protected, including a tenth of them under strict protection, which means that all economic activities are prohibited at this 10%; the remaining areas are subject to slightly less restrictive restrictions. In addition, as a country, we have signed the basic principle of sustainable forest management, which allows us to cut up the forest only within the limits of growth. Whether we cut our forest too much is often a pain in the heart. We therefore have the principle that no more can be cut than the increase allows. Because of such restrictions, we are very different from many other countries in the European Union in that we do not have to worry about the forest being in danger of disappearing in any way or that it is very hard to shrink. On the contrary, for a long time, we have had a much greater increase in forest growth than we have had in cutting volume. This gap has narrowed over the last year, but it is still noticeable at present. Forests are quite equally divided between the forest of private owners and the forest belonging to the state, i.e. to all taxpayers. There are nearly 100,000 private forest owners in Estonia, most of them private individuals. It can be said that all of us have reason to rejoice that forest owners are increasingly interested in the welfare of their forest and also in benevolent forest management. The number of forest owners belonging to forest cooperatives is constantly increasing. There is often concern about known infringements. It cannot be said that there would be no trouble in the forest or that everything would be in perfect condition, but the point of pain is no longer very serious violations of law, but rather borderline cases where good management is contradicted. In this context, the legislative changes currently on the table should certainly also be considered. It is self - understandable that not everything can be solved by law or must be resolved; certainly, good practice is also a place for editing in the forest. For this reason, I have strongly encouraged the development of good practice in forestry on the initiative of the forest society. So far, a good start has been made, but, of course, the beautiful basics that have been agreed require much more precise and detailed furnishings. There are certainly places where no one but the country can improve the situation. It is precisely these aspects that the draft focuses on. As you can see, the number of illegal logging and other forestry offences has decreased significantly compared to ten years ago, and with the ripening of society, the rules have indeed been learned to value and respect more. The state needs to be good at ensuring that what is happening in the forest can be easily monitored and verified to ensure the preservation of natural values and sustainable forest management, but in such a way that the life of the owner of the forest does not become unnecessarily painful or extraordinarily burdensome in terms of bureaucracy. I consider it very important that today's electronic forest register will be completed by 2015, which will make the forest public much better monitored. In this way, forest owners planning logging will have to record their forest inventory data in the forest register in the future. This information can be monitored in the future by anyone interested in the forest. That's the view that's going to open up in the forest register. The forest register will subsequently generate a theme map based on the data entered by forest owners, showing the areas where economic activity is allowed and when, for example, an innovative cutting is expected on one or the other specific parcel. Many of the tensions around the forest are caused by the fact that some mushroom or bus passenger eyegs the felling area and immediately wonders whether the activity on a particular logging site is legal and whether everything is in order. Often these concerns are completely in vain and unwarranted. In order to alleviate these doubts and doubts and to give a quick answer to the person who is concerned about standing at one or another specific cutting ground, the draft also proposes that the owner of the forest should in future put an information label on the edge of the lang, just as it is required at construction sites, for example. Such an informative label should be installed before the work begins and should provide information about the performer and the subscriber. The forest must, of course, be managed in a prudent manner and with regard to nature. On the proposal of the Estonian Chamber of Environmental Associations, a new concept of 'permanent forestry' has been introduced into the draft, which means that trees that have been depopulated or felled are constantly replaced in such a way as to minimise the impact on the overall health of the forest. This will provide forest owners with a new and more environmentally friendly alternative to, for example, clear-cut management. In order to preserve the biodiversity of forests, the draft provides for the obligation to leave more trees to larger logging sites after clear cutting. More than five hectares of felling must grow twice as much, i.e. at least 10 cubic metres per hectare, as compared to today. Forest owners will also be able to design strips according to natural boundaries so that they are more suited to the landscape and forests are not fragmented. This means that the overall banging restriction will disappear and the maximum surface area of the lanks will be based on the type of site in the future. The law also includes a new type of felling.. design cutting. Design cutting is still intended to be used primarily for nature conservation purposes and will continue to be used under the management plan. As an example, good cutting can be used to improve the living conditions of the wild. I tell those who have visited the Pirita Landscape Protection Area right here in Tallinn that opening views should also be possible in the future with the help of a design cutting. As mentioned above, the forest's infringements have continued to decrease. However, there are a few narrower areas where control needs to be strengthened. After all, the Forest Act still says that five years after the cutting, the forest must have been renewed. At the moment, the Environmental Board has the right to check it only if the owner invites the Agency to check it himself. You may think that these invitations are not very frequent. The draft law proposes that the Agency should have the possibility and right to go to its own initiative to carry out checks if there is reason to believe that the requirement for renewal has not been complied with in accordance with the law or has been brought to the attention of anyone. We also want to strengthen the control of private forest subsidies in order to ensure that they are targeted. True, intentional fraud is very rare in forest subsidies, but it must be possible to recover money from the beneficiary in the event of an infringement. Should intentional fraud or deliberate false disclosure be identified, the State may in future refuse to grant the same holder a refund if the law enters into force. The last objective I want to highlight in the amendment of the Forest Act is to reduce unnecessary bureaucracy and administrative burdens, simply speaking, more sensible and easier to deal with, for the owner of the forest, but also for the national authorities. According to the draft, the owner will be able to register in the electronic forest register himself in the future with a statement that he is planning a logging operation. Its assumption is, of course, that it has provided forest inventory data in the forest register and that they have been reviewed and found to be accurate and realistic. So the correct owner of the forest will be able to take care of his own business quickly without having to run for a very long time between different authorities with various permits or applications. The life of a small forest owner will also become easier as owners of a property of up to five hectares will no longer have to submit inventory data. The obligation to submit a forest statement will, of course, also be maintained for them and if more than 20 cubic metres of timber are to be cut within a single property per year. If less than 20 cubic metres per year are to be cut, it does not need to be submitted in the future. It is also important to the owners that we do not lower the age of logging in the law, but it will be possible to take into account the peculiarities of mixed trees in the future. However, if the current system is based on the tree species that grow most in the forest, the age of the felling is determined by it, it means, among other things, that some valuable timber is being wasted. In future, felling taking into account different tree species will not increase or reduce the volume of felling, but will allow the cutting of innovation to be done in time. That was the introduction. I would ask Parliament to support the draft that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U134	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U135	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. At present, the focus of the forest is primarily on the supply of timber. But other products come from the forest, such as berries, mushrooms, herbs, cones. Is there any other way to support or support the supply of these products, too, as our neighbouring countries Finland, Sweden and Latvia have done, which have made the disposal of these products exempt from income tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U136	Thank you. No, no tax exemption for the collection of cones is planned in the course of this draft procedure. But the debate on the draft in Parliament at first reading is only just beginning. So I don't know what good ideas you might have in the process of handling this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U137	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Thank you very much for this interesting presentation and for not only reading the text from the remote control, but also to illustrate your presentation with the forestry development plan. But how much does the draft concern the joint management of forest owners, i.e. cooperative activities? Can you assess whether there is an impact here, and how do you even appreciate the joint activities of Estonian forest owners?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U139	Thank you. This joint activity is increasingly active, and forest owners are also increasingly concentrated in cooperatives in Estonia. In particular, it is linked to the application for benefits; it is often easier for cooperatives to apply for support. We have really encouraged this so that forest owners do not always have to solve all the problems alone and try to answer all the questions with their heads. In any case, the concentration of cooperatives is favorable and reasonable. If a cooperative submits an application for support, it is certainly more reasonable if the forest owner is to push on the application for support alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U140	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U141	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I, too, thank you for this interesting and very well illustrated presentation. There is one good principle of openness and transparency in the draft law. The forest register will be a tool for this. There's a lot of data to see. Do we invest in the ability of the forest register and how much do we invest in making it work as nicely as the bill has planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U142	Thank you. I owe the euro to the accuracy of the answer, frankly. We started investing in the development of the forest register a few years ago. This process has been thorough and long. As usual, there could have been a solution already. In order for everything to work perfectly, it has been invested, but I would rather not say a specific amount with the euro, because I do not want to be wrong. But the desire and willingness to have not only the register ready at the time of the law's entry into force, but to have been able to try it in advance, is there in the ministry and we are really taking it seriously. To be honest, this is not only a unique solution on the Estonian scale, but there is no other register in the European Union as a whole that makes state forests so observable to the public. If this can be done well and successfully, as many other IT solutions we have managed, then it could certainly be of interest to other countries of the European Union in the future, and not only to the countries of the European Union, but possibly to countries outside Europe as well. So we take this very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U143	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I don't think there were any questions like this in the committee, but you, as the initiator of the draft, should know the answer. There are a lot of figures here, such as a limit of 20 cubic metres and a limit of 5 hectares. How did these figures come about? Why can't there be 25 cubic metres or 8 acres? Is there a reason behind this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U145	Thank you. There are once again a lot of compromises in this draft. This bill has been prepared for a very long time, as has the law of hunting. It has been negotiated and agreements have been negotiated with many, from environmental protection organisations to forest managers. Most of these figures are conventional. Why are there 5 hectares, why are there no 4,75 or 5,25 hectares, for example? This was the agreement reached in the working group. This is often the case with such decisions that this agreement must be a place somewhere. I think that the figures that have been agreed are, in conclusion, quite reasonable and take account of both sides. They take into account that we do not harm nature in a broader sense, so that we do not rely solely on the interests of logging or management. On the other hand, the concerns of small forest owners in particular have been taken into account and the wish that some of the sometimes unreasonable bureaucracy that we still have in some places will be alleviated. I think that a reasonable agreement has been reached on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U146	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. I invite Jaanus Tamkivi, member of the Environment Committee, to attend the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, my thanks and congratulations to the Minister, who was so thoroughly prepared for today's presentation and gave a very good overview of this draft law, which was also discussed by the Committee on the Environment at its meeting on 15 September. Because the Minister made such a beautiful and thorough presentation, I will no longer introduce the content of the draft law. However, I can talk about the fact that there was a very long and thorough debate in the Commission on this draft law, there were a lot of questions, and the members of the Commission were very active in this draft law. The Commission had been invited to provide explanations by Deputy Secretary-General Marku Lamp of the Ministry of the Environment and Counsellor of the Legal Department Merike Laidvee. The guests were very well and practically able to answer all the questions. There was no acute problem left. In sum, I can say that the members of the committee also found that this bill is moving very well in this act, as envisaged by the forestry development plan adopted by the Riigikogu. On 15 February 2011, if you remember, the Riigikogu adopted a new forestry development plan until 2020. As has been said, this bill is moving very well in the tactic that the development plan has foreseen. No member of the Commission made any proposals to amend the text of the draft law, and that is why the draft law is in the form that it came from the Government of the Republic to the proceedings of the Riigikogu here today. After an in-depth discussion, the Commission took decisions. It was decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be discussed in the Riigikogu today (this decision was taken by consensus), to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the first reading of the draft 463 be stopped (this decision was also made by consensus) and to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the deadline for submitting 463 amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 9 October 2013 (this decision was also adopted unanimously). I'm done with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U148	Thank you very much. You have questions. Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In my opinion, this principle of 20 cubic metres is extremely positive and welcome. Many forest owners can now make firewood very easily in their forest. I understand that from now on there will be no bureaucracy and there will be no need to formalise a communication. But is there any other requirements, or is there some kind of control, of whether the owner can make clear or thinny cutting, or is it entirely a matter of the mind and conscience of the forest owner, how he takes those 20 cubic metres out of his forest?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U150	Thank you for your question. According to my recollection, this is a provision that allows the forest owner to cut up the forest for his own use, without formalising official documents, within the existing forest law. There, as we remember, is allowed to chop up to 5 cubic metres per hectare, but not more than 20 cubic metres per property. It has now been made simpler and said that no more than 20 cubic metres per forest block. With 20 cubic metres of wood, it is, of course, difficult to make clear cutting. I don't think this is going to work very well. If you're gonna start at one edge, you're gonna have to stop right now, because that's gonna be done really fast. But once it was written in the law of the forest. Logic was that if small forest owners need to reserve heating for even winter, if there is a house of any size, it usually takes 10 to 15 cubic metres during winter, then small forest owners should not be burdened with bureaucracy. That is also the point of this bill. This amount is really small, there's no business with it, and it probably won't work.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U151	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have heard that this draft law has, in most cases, received only a positive response, but I had a question of transparency on the basis of the ministerial slides. It's all very positive, but isn't there going to be a lot of bureaucracy because of the requirement that there must be an information label on the edge of the lang? Is this not an additional bureaucracy obligation? Would it not be sufficient, for example, to have the owner's details on the edge of the property? As registers become online anyway, is it justified to require this label on every lang edge?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U153	Thank you. This question also arose in the Commission, as it was thought, that this requirement to label the edge of the forest would probably receive attention. Unfortunately, until now, the legislator has left relatively free what form this label could be and what information should be in it. It was precisely the idea that came out of the Commission's debate that if a person goes into the woods and sees some sort of mess and crap there, he would at least have a phone number to call and get information about what is going on. It makes sense that there could be the name of the owner of the forest and the identity of the person doing the work and some kind of contact phone. What exactly is it supposed to be in? Life will show you how the law will be implemented. I think it's a step forward in any case, because sometimes there's all sorts of things in the woods, and then you think you don't know who they've arranged there. Of course, it is possible to go online to the land register and find the owners there. In fact, even now it is possible to find out everything with a little tracking action, there is nothing complicated, but it could be much easier. This bill is actually heading in that direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U154	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 463 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 463 amendments in s. 9 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U155	Let's go to the next item. The first reading of the draft law amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. To present the speech chair, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U156	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Dear Members, Today there is also a draft law amending the Water Act at first reading. It aims to reduce or even avoid unnecessary administrative burdens and also to ensure the viability of our rivers. The main changes to this draft concern requirements for dams and specific water authorisations. The draft also makes minor clarifications in order to bring the law into line with the European Union's Groundwater Directive. Following Parliament's approval of this draft (i hope that this will happen), the building permit must be used for the construction of the barrier in the future, and the local authority must coordinate the design conditions with the Environmental Board. This is necessary, in particular, in order to prevent the establishment of environmentally hazardous barriers and the risk of a sudden environmental hazard being found in one place or another. This is certainly important to the owner for the reason that he will be able to find out in the initial phase of planning whether access to the barrier is necessary to avoid unnecessary costs and time later. So the requirements of the new swells are tightening up. However, the lives of many of the current owners of the barrier will be somewhat simplified, as in the future, if the swelling increases water levels by up to one metre, the owner will no longer need a special permit for the use of water. This is because, according to experts, the environmental impact of up to metres in height is small enough. The total number of such boils in Estonia is 240, a quarter of the total number of dams built on rivers. It is important to note and note that this relief does not concern the boils on salmon rivers or the boils used to produce electricity, where the limit is still 30 centimetres in the current law. The basic, I hope, is that even where a specific water permit is no longer needed in the future, environmental requirements must be met. The draft also resolves issues of water reduction and expansion. In future, you must ask the Environmental Board for consent and the local government's position if you are planning to eliminate or lower the water level to a level for which a special water permit is no longer required. For example, the lakes will not disappear unexpectedly overnight and the protection of the environment will be ensured when lowering water levels. In addition to the provisions on swells, the draft provides for the conversion of water special permits for use for an indefinite period. These licences are currently issued for a period of five years. However, given how large and long-term most water-related investments are, this five-year deadline is simply not feasible. However, individual exceptions remain, for example when water use is one-off. It will also be easier for the Environmental Board to change permit conditions in the future if unexpected and significant negative environmental impacts or other really unexpected circumstances occur. Dear Riigikogu, I would like to ask you to support the draft submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U157	Thank you very much. Any questions for the Minister? Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is very good that this so-called 'expansion' issue is covered by the draft, but the European Union's Water Framework Directive requires good status for water bodies by 2015. Are we ready for this and will we get all the work done by these deadlines, or will we have a salty infringement procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U159	Thank you. It's not salty. We are still working hard to get the job done by the deadlines. Of course, once again, the European Union's taxpayers' money, the European Union's budget, from which it is also possible for the expansion holders to apply for support in order to adapt them to the requirements.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U160	Thank you very much. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U161	Thank you. Dear Minister, With this bill, do we in any way change the elimination of existing deposits still established during the Soviet era? For example, if we in Põlva County want to get back an outcrop and a rapid river that was then cleared with a barrier, could this bill help us get closer to this solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U162	Thank you. A specific case should be looked at a little more closely so that I can dare to say whether and how these changes are going to come. Depends on whether or not you or the barrier owner has requested a readjustment of the design conditions and whether or not a specific water permit is required. These circumstances should be better informed. I can't tell by heart what a big dam it is and what requirements it's going to have in the future. It is clear that environmental requirements must be met in these changes. There have been examples that the historical appearance or situation has been restored with the removal of the barrier in Estonia. But it is also important that these changes are considered on all sides so that there is no situation where water bodies linked to one river or another, for example, are affected very sharply. However, in the case of a particular example, you should look at all the facts in greater detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U163	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U164	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Lately, a lot of fish stairs have been built. Does this law in any way regulate how these stairs are to be built? The stairs have been built, but for most of the year, fish cannot swim there because these stairs are dry. What's wrong with building stairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U165	Thank you. The point of the fish stairs is that during the spawning period, when the water level is high, fish can move along the stairs to the spawning ground. Such examples that during the spawning period, during the high water season, the fish stairs were dry, I don't know. The law does not provide all the conditions for the establishment of fish stairs and cannot be regulated by law, because in each particular case environmental impacts need to be thoroughly assessed and analysed and an individual solution often needs to be sought. There are no universal fish stairs, such as universal escalators. These solutions are still individual.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U166	No further questions. Thank you very much, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus! I would like to ask Annely Akkermann, Member of the Environment Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U167	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Environment Committee discussed a draft law amending the Water Act in 467 s. a on September 15th. At the meeting of the committee, Deputy Chancellor Harry Liiv, Head of the Legal Department Eda Pärtel and Specialist of the Water Department Agne Aruväli presented the contents of the draft. The draft law amending the Water Act has two aims: to modernise and improve the regulation of the expansion of water bodies and to bring the Water Act into line with the Water Framework Directive and the Groundwater Directive of the European Union. The draft narrows the scope of land or water areas in need of protection within the meaning of the Water Act, which are subject to more stringent environmental requirements and restrictions resulting therefrom. So far, all the waters used or intended to be used for drinking water, which have essentially meant the whole territory of Estonia, have needed protection. In the event of the adoption of the draft act, more stringent environmental requirements will be laid down for water grips used or intended to be used for the abstraction of drinking water and for their sanitary protected areas. The scope and limitations of the sanitary protection area of the water grip are laid down in § 28 and 281 of the Water Act, which are not amended by the draft. The provisions relating to the expansion of water concern in particular the handling of specific water usage permits in a more flexible way and with more exceptions, hopefully reducing administrative burdens. But the Minister has already given a very thorough overview of this, so I will not stop at it. The Committee on the Environment decided to appoint Annely Akkermann, member of the Committee on the Environment, as rapporteur for the panel on the draft, to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be put on the agenda of the Riigikogu's plenary on 25 September 2013, to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the first reading be completed and to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 9 October 2013. All decisions were taken by consensus. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-25_U168	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Annely Akkermann! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 467 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 467 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 9 October 2013. Today's agenda is exhausted. Thank you very much, everyone. Have a good night. Closure of the sitting at 4.02 p.m.
