ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. We will begin the Monday session of the 16th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. First of all, I ask for a chair of speech from the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. First, the law of succession, the notary's remuneration of the law, the notarial law and, in connection with it, the draft law amending other laws. Secondly, the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Inclusion of Children in Armed Conflicts. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu in Taavi Rõiva, Minister of Social Affairs. Fourthly, the draft law supplementing the Environmental Supervision Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment. Fifthly, the draft law amending the law on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry and the law on the citizen of the European Union. Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U3	Thank you. Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of several members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior on the fight against drug addiction. We have had a pleasant debate with the Minister of the Interior and the Prime Minister for two years on how to bring down the number of drug deaths. This number has increased for many years in a row. We've been talking about the fact that maybe the tactics chosen by the Home Office aren't the most convenient or effective. As we can see, when the tactics changed at the beginning of this year, the number of drug deaths in Estonia decreased twice. The police have been brought to the streets to catch drug dealers selling white Chinese, or alpha-methylfentanyl, every day in different places across Tallinn. We are asking if the Minister of the Interior will admit that the tactics we've had so far were very wrong. Another thing, is it planned to use this method in the capture of drug addicts and drug dealers in other parts of Estonia, and how is cooperation between the Ministry of Internal Affairs and other authorities in this area taking place in the Committee on Drugs of the Government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U5	Thank you very much. Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U6	Honourable Riigikogu! The European Commission has presented a proposal for a directive obliging companies and groups to disclose non-financial and diversity information. The Committee on European Union Affairs is of the opinion that the proposal runs counter to the principle of subsidiarity, as the need for intervention at EU level is not sufficiently justified. The presentation of a reasoned opinion to the European Union is motivated by the desire to preserve Estonia's right to decide on a fair balance between the obligations of companies and the freedom to conduct a business, and by what measures to strike a balance. The disclosure of non-financial information significantly increases the administrative burden and costs for companies and it is not clear that the compulsory disclosure of such information would better protect the interests of investors than the already existing obligation to disclose financial information. In this context, on behalf of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I will hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu, the content of which is a reasoned opinion to the Presidents of the European Parliament and the European Commission and to the President of the Council of the European Union on the non-compliance of the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council with the principle of subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U7	Thank you. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U8	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Together with eight colleagues from the Centre Party Group, I am pleased to report to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip on the conflict of interest of a member of the Government of the Republic and the appointment of members of the boards of state companies. We will ask the Prime Minister a total of six questions on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the board, I have adopted six draft laws and two inquiries. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to process them within three working days. If inquiries comply with this law, I shall forward them immediately to the addressees. Ladies and gentlemen, now the announcements. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed leading committees for them: the Estonian Central Party Group. a Draft Act amending § 5 of the Income Tax Act, initiated on 22 May, of which the commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. a draft law on the amendment of political party law initiated on 23 May and related amendments to other laws, the commission of which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. Drafts submitted to the Committee on European Union Affairs on 30 May 2004. Firstly, the European Commission's Green Paper on a European strategy for plastic waste released into the environment. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Environment Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the Green Paper. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. tho 6 June at 4 p.m. Secondly, the European Commission communication on the modernisation of trade defence instruments and the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Foreign Affairs Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft communication and regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. tho 13 June at 4 p.m. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 78 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 23. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is on your desks, but there will be a small addition, as the Committee on Culture has proposed that the draft law amending the National Library Act initiated by Mart Meri, a member of the Riigikogu, be excluded from the agenda of this week, which was planned on Tuesday as the eighth item. With this addition, I will put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U10	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. Answering questions begins. The first question is the members of the Riigikogu Sven Mikeri, Marianne Mikko, Andres Anvelt, Neeme Suur, Rein Randver, Kalvi Tõik, Eiki Nestor, Tiit Tammsaare, Jaak Allik, Heljo Pikhofi, Mart Meri, Helmen Küti and Jaan Õunapuu on 18 April. a request for information on external policy objectives. I'm asking colleague Sven Mikser of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I presented a report with 12 colleagues. On 18 April, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip was asked to ask the Prime Minister about the reflection of his visit to Ukraine. Since it has been a month and a half since the question was handed over, it is probably necessary to refresh the memory of the listeners. The work was as follows: Urmas Paet, Estonian Minister of Foreign Affairs, announced in February in the annual foreign policy debate before Parliament that Estonian foreign policy is based on European values and is guided by the principle of the primacy of human rights. I quote: 'Human rights and values are a cross-cutting issue on all foreign policy issues, be it security or European policy, economic or consular. ' On 10 April of this year, Postimees wrote that the Reform Party collected 62015 euros in donations in the first quarter of the year, the biggest donation of which was 50,000 euros, was made by the businessman Hillar Teder. On 11 April, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, who was present in Ukraine, made a statement according to the press there, which was quite surprising in the Estonian media. Ansip said it was wrong to put the future of relations between Ukraine and the European Union on one card, one lady. This one lady, of course, is Yulia Tymoshenko, former Prime Minister of Ukraine. The Prime Minister was sent on a visit by a small business delegation, including a major supporter of the Reform Party, which had significant business interests in Ukraine. The press and the public have condemned the Prime Minister's words of one lady, but the focus is mainly on the fact that such a statement is not a gentlemanly one. Less focus has been placed on a question which, at least in the opinion of the Socialists, is even more important. Whether Estonia's foreign policy views expressed by the Prime Minister in his performances are based on some values or can be bought and sold. I don't mean to say that, so I'll ask you if they're on order. In order to be clear, I would like to emphasise two things. Firstly, the Prime Minister must, of course, stand up for the interests of his country's entrepreneurs. If necessary, the issue of fair treatment of Estonian entrepreneurs must also be raised vigorously at bilateral meetings, if necessary at Prime Ministers level. However, there is no way that compromises can and must not be made to promote the economic interests of Estonian entrepreneurs or sponsors of the party on account of Estonia's attitude to human rights, fair trial or the rule of law as a whole. Second. The Estonian state and I sincerely hope that all the political forces in Estonia will be interested in the faster integration of Ukraine into Europe and the internal political reforms of Ukraine, especially in the area of the rule of law. These wishes and hopes can be expressed as Prime Minister Ansip did, who said, I repeat, it is wrong to put the future of relations between Ukraine and the European Union on one map and on one lady. But these wishes and hopes can also be expressed, for example, as did US Foreign Minister John Kerry at a May meeting with his Ukrainian colleague. Foreign Minister Kerry then said that he wanted to talk about the work that Ukraine must do in order to fulfil the conditions for an association agreement with the European Union. He expressed his hope that the agreement would soon be concluded, but he also expressed his strong hope that Ukraine would be able to proceed with the difficult issues on the road, including the termination of the criminal charges brought against some individuals, especially former Prime Minister Tymoshenko. Our main and foreign ministers' comments and answers to the questions of the Estonian press following their visit have been strangely unsavory. It's not quite as if it has been said, but it's not to be refuted, according to the press, it's not going to be evaluated, but it's not going to be asked for more specifically. I recall that the Foreign Minister, Urmas Paet, did not wish to comment on the quotation published in the Ukrainian press by saying, according to Postimees, on 16 April, that he has not heard the sentence himself and is not going to evaluate what the Prime Minister said on the basis of a press release from another country. It is strange if the Foreign Minister does not have the opportunity to obtain information about what the Prime Minister said from a direct source. The Prime Minister himself, according to the Postimees on 17 April, said that he did not consider it necessary to comment on his words in any way and that no attention should be paid to them. We have five questions for the Prime Minister. In the light of the above, we ask you to answer these questions in substance. I hope that the Prime Minister will not convince us of the importance of developing relations between the European Union and Ukraine, which we are already convinced of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U12	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Mikser. I would now like to ask the Prime Minister on the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'Do you think that your saying 'one lady' quoted in the Ukrainian media, who should not be an obstacle to relations between Ukraine and Estonia and between Ukraine and the European Union, is in line with the principles of value-based foreign policy? " Everyone has had the opportunity to get acquainted with the information from the source, which was published on the Government's website on the day of the meeting. Reiterating this, I assure you that, at my meeting with both the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister, I have said how important it is for Ukraine to continue the reforms it has started and to meet the conditions formulated by the European Union. Like all the other leaders of the European Union, I do not think there is a place for selective justice, but I do not think it right to make the development of relations between the European Union and Ukraine dependent on one issue. In Estonia's foreign policy, the value-based and pragmatic approach has not been opposite, but complementary. To make sure of this, I suggest you recall the last presentation by the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the Riigikogu. The second question: 'How do you assess the effectiveness of your visit for Estonian entrepreneurs with business interests in Ukraine, including your party recently supported by EUR 50000 for Hillar Teder? ' With regard to business interests and efficiency, you should ask these companies. At the same time, I am pleased that the honourable questioners have noticed how the government protects the interests of Estonian entrepreneurs. I assure you that I intend to continue to stand up for the economic interests of Estonian entrepreneurs and Estonia. Question 3: 'Did and to what extent your statements to the satisfaction of the Ukrainian authorities differing from the prevailing approach of the European Union contribute to the promotion of the business interests of the companies that sent you in Ukraine? ' The European Union has adopted common positions both at the Council of Heads of State and at the level of Foreign Ministers. The words I have said in Ukraine are in line with these views. Question 4: 'Was the foreign minister Urmas Paet following the principle of the primacy of values and human rights in Estonia's foreign economic policy in the presentation to the Riigikogu during the Ukrainian visit to represent the economic interests of Estonia? ' Yes, my action to promote the economic interests of Estonia is in line with what the Minister of Foreign Affairs has said to the Riigikogu. Question 5: 'Since there are entrepreneurs who have business interests in Belarus among the major supporters of political parties in the government coalition, can you or the members of your government office be expected to make statements that differ significantly from the European Union's approach to Belarus policy? ' As has been the case so far, the government will continue to follow the common positions of the European Union. As so far, we will continue to protect the interests of Estonian entrepreneurs everywhere in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U14	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Any questions? Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U15	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Did I understand correctly from the answer to the first question that you have never used the expression 'one lady' or said these words in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U16	Thank you. I've said that many times before, that's what I mean. Whether or not I've used that exact expression isn't so important. I accept that expression. I find nothing offensive or discriminatory in the word 'lady'. One might even ask you to look for, for example, which journalism editorial has used the expressions 'a lady with a rough hand' or 'a lady with an iron grip'. You will find these expressions in the Estonian press dozens and hundreds of times. I don't think you have any reproach for using the word 'lady' or 'lady'.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U17	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The Vilnius debate is already close. Are you convinced that Ukraine will be able to sign in Vilnius and that sitting at its table will not depend on the question of whether or not the former Prime Minister will be imprisoned by then?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U19	Thank you. No, I do not have this conviction that the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union will be signed at the Vilnius Eastern Partnership Summit. It still depends on a lot of developments. I very much hope that Ukraine's action and the European Union's attitude towards it will enable the association agreement to be signed. Let us admit that the European Union does not have a plan B ready for Ukraine and the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U20	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U21	My question is still about Estonia's foreign policy. If there is no contradiction between these two approaches, is Estonia's foreign policy value-based and we act pragmatically or is our foreign policy pragmatic and we act on a value-based basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U22	Both this and the other. These things have to go together, and in life, they're going together. In my much quoted statement, the most important thing is that not all relations between the European Union and Ukraine must be put on a single map. In fact, there is not much news in this argument, because the European Union has not put the future of its relations on a single map either so far. If we look, for example, at the increase in exports from the European Union to Ukraine, we see that this has been significant. In 2009, the European Union exported EUR 14 billion of goods to Ukraine, and EUR 23.8 billion in 2012. This is a very stormy development of economic relations. There is no way to say that the whole future of relationships is on a single map. The exact same can be said of imports from Ukraine: EUR 7.9 billion in 2009, EUR 14.6 billion in 2012. Looking at, for example, the initiatives of defence cooperation between Ukraine and a Member State of the European Union, too, it is not possible to notice that there is some kind of stagnation, freeze. Relationships have evolved quite well and quickly. LITPOLUKRBRIG is being created, for example. The name is a bit square, but it is a Lithuanian, Polish and Ukrainian defence format, where 550 Ukrainian soldiers should participate. Ukraine has committed itself to very extensive reforms to ensure that its legal and legal framework is in line with the standards of the European Union. Several of these milestones have been achieved, many have been achieved and, for many, we hope that they will be achieved. In order to complete a number of reforms, the Ukrainian Constitution should probably be amended. This process is now underway. The first version of the new constitution has been handed over to the Venice Commission. Therefore, reforms are taking place in Ukraine. We would, of course, like them to take place at a much faster pace and be more extensive, but there is certainly no reason to deny the importance of the reforms that have been carried out and are being carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U23	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U24	Thank you. Prime Minister! Can you name another head of government of the European Union who has given the Ukrainian Head of State such a gift, reducing the importance of this very political and opaque judgment, the importance of the judgment, the importance of the so-called one lady, as you have expressed, of the case, and giving legitimacy to the current Ukrainian Government, claiming that this type of action, at least in the opinion of one of the leaders of the European Union, is not a major problem? Do you have any other thinkers in Europe who are willing to underestimate human rights in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U25	It was purely your arbitrary interpretation. I disagree with this interpretation. That is what I say: the European Union as a whole has not laid the basis for the development of relations on just one issue. Even this very rapid growth in exports is telling us that relations are evolving. In fact, Estonia's share of this very significant growth is relatively modest, marginal. The main concern is the trade between Ukraine and the European Union in the large countries of Western Europe. Yeah, relationships are being developed. Whenever I have spoken about the fact that we must not make the future of relations between the European Union and Ukraine dependent on just one argument, one question, I have said in the same sentence that in no way does Estonia or the European Union consider selective justice, politically biased justice acceptable. On your own question, you failed to mention it, either in ignorance or consciously. I think it's the last one, because I expect you to read more. But it's not correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U26	Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U27	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Your party partner, Kristiina Ojuland, has done a considerable amount of work as rapporteur for the European Parliament on the Magnitski report. We know that, in Parliament, both in North America and in several European countries, the case of Sergei Magnitski has been treated as very indicative of the general human rights situation in Russia. How do you assess whether the focus on the Magnitski case is also an individual and individual issue or whether it is justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U28	Thank you. An in-depth analysis of the Magnitski case in the European Parliament is certainly justified. However, in the context of today's fundamental issue, you must also agree that the whole world has not made all the development of its relations with Russia dependent on just one issue. In this sense, too, the two cases are similar. After all, the Council and the European Union at large have never attempted to find out whether or not Yulia Tymoshenko is guilty of what she is accused of. This debate has not taken place at the Council meetings where I have been (but I have been at all the meetings where these issues have been discussed). However, the Council has unequivocally and unanimously taken the view that selective trial and justice, politically biased justice, is not acceptable. What does that mean? There is a clear condemnation of selective justice, but no position is taken as to whether the former Prime Minister is guilty or innocent. It goes without saying that the issue of guilt or innocence is to decide on an independent trial and that the Council or the Foreign Ministers of the European Union are not capable of being an independent judge. They don't claim that role. It is recalled that the criminal case against Julia Tymoshenko was initiated during the previous term of office of the President of Ukraine. Even when the judgment was handed down, the European Union did not take the path of unambiguous sanctions, even though the European Union believes that the judgment is politically biased. Remember that there was no boycott even for European championships in football, which some demanded, as well as other relationships being pursued. What brings these doubts and doubts? Probably the good questioners as read people know it themselves. People who bother to google find enough references to the previous business career of the person in question and accusations of bribery to the Russian military, which therefore showed gas consumption to be 80 million dollars higher. I am not the judge of whether these accusations hold water or not, but it is known through the press that a high military officer has been convicted of the same matter. It is also known to many that Julia Tymoshenko's own business partner in their joint company, Pavlo Lazarenko, was sentenced to 17 years in prison in the United States. The judicial documents that can be found on the Internet are sufficiently linked to the case in question. Julia Tymoshenko has allegedly transferred USD 110 million to the accounts of Pavlo Lazarenko in Cyprus. It is not for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia to decide whether or not these acts are punishable; only an independent court can decide on this matter. The European Union has taken the view that Yulia Tymoshenko has not been tried independently, but there have been many doubts and doubts over the ages. In principle, we should not ignore these doubts; we should not take the view that one person is necessarily innocent if we do not have enough arguments to do so. Let the independent trial decide whether someone is guilty or innocent. We are seeking a fair trial.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U29	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Do colleagues want to negotiate? Starts with colleague Sven Mikser. I'm opening negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U30	The Prime Minister's answer to my question about Sergei Magnitski I must probably read more about the verbatim. It sounded strange the first time I heard it. As I feared, in his answers, the Prime Minister tried to bring a debate on whether or not the European Union should develop relations with Ukraine and whether these relations should depend on one, two or three factors. I don't know if the Prime Minister tried to take the 'key issues' debate to it with ignorance or knowingly. I think this is the last one because I expect the Prime Minister to read both a great deal and a remarkable capacity for attention. It is a fact that the speech by Prime Minister Ansip, quoted in the Ukrainian press, was acceptable to the Ukrainian authorities precisely in that it helped to disrupt the joint pressure on the Ukrainian authorities in the countries of the European Union, so that the trial of Mrs Tymoshenko would indeed be fair and non-political. It is also a fact that the Prime Minister has not been able to give clear views either on what he said exactly then or on what led to such statements. I would also like to point out that just now this remote tirad sounded about the possible sin record of Tymoshenko, along with the Prime Minister's statement that you do not necessarily believe that a person is innocent. This finding is particularly strange, given the rigidity of the Prime Minister's emphasis on the presumption of innocence when dealing with the possible sins of his own party fellow ministers, now we can talk about the ex-minister in this context. As I said, the Prime Minister slipped aside as expected from the fundamental question of whether or not there is a connection between his applications to the Ukrainian authorities in Ukraine and the large donations of the supporters of the Reform Party. This is regrettable, especially in the light of recent political party funding scandals. Because if we can more or less guess the positions and actions of the public financiers of the party, then we can only imagine what positions and actions have been taken in the interests of the party's hidden donors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U31	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U32	Let's go to the next question. This is the members of the Riigikogu, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laaneti, Rainer Vakra, Inara Luigas and Deniss Borodichi on 25 April. a request for information on fisheries policy and fisheries regulation in Lake Peipsi. Lembit Kaljuvee, colleague of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U33	Madam Chairman! Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, All of us like to have results, visible results, or tangible results in our work. We'll feel good. I am delighted to note that this question has already given me this joy, in two respects. On April 24, this inquiry was handed over. After that, Peipsi had a major operation called "Pep's Lock." There has been no such operation on Peipsi for twenty years. I am really glad that the country has finally responded. Today, I was happy to hear that question again. Although I was able to fight. Namely, my dear penguin says he's really mad at me because he lost the spring bale this year. Inara almost lives by Peipsi, but Peipsi was so locked that he lost the bar. But I am, of course, happy that Peipsi has been locked, even though a latika could have been bought from a store or from a sales point. But apologize for such a long introduction! I'm going to the question now. Why did this request come forward? There's a long story in the question, and there's questions. I love a street village near Peipsi. No matter how you drive through it, when you come from Mustvee and go towards Kallaste, there are seven kilometers in the house, or when you come from Kallaste, the Kasepää village begins a very peculiar corner of Estonia that lasts seven kilometres. When I've been driving there, I've been looking for something all along, but I haven't. I have been looking for the development of this region, but in fact this region is going back in its development, development has unfortunately stopped there during Estonia's second independence. As you drive this long street, you can see the tsar buildings, which are decent bricks, you can see a little bit of the first time in Estonia and then you can see Stalin's time. You can see it pretty hard. At that time, a house was set up in the fishing industry at Peipsi, by which methods, it is a question of its own, but once it was in the house and the area developed. After Stalin died, for some reason, he got out of hand there once, nothing happened. Once again, Peipsi improved in the second half of the 1960's, which lasted until the 1980's. You can see all this from the buildings. I've studied construction and architecture, and I'm interested in it. Every house tells its own story, every village has its own story, and it's very good to read it out of architecture. Unfortunately, in the last 20 years, almost nothing has been built there, if not to see that some fancy cottage has emerged, but really only a few. A great border guard cordon has also been built in the Blackwater. I believe that if I was able to achieve two tiny moments of joy with this question, the moments of joy will continue and the Estonian state will establish order in the area. Now we look forward to what the Prime Minister will answer our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U34	Thank you very much, Mr Kaljuvee. I would like to ask again the Prime Minister of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U35	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs, I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'Is the division of the fisheries sector between the two ministries justified and is the responsibility specifically laid down and defined between the ministries? 'The fisheries sector has been managed by two ministries since 15 April 2004. The role of ministries in the administration of fisheries is laid down in the basic regulation of both ministries, which identifies the respective structural units of ministries and their main tasks. The main task of the Department of Fish Stocks of the Ministry of the Environment is to organise the preparation and implementation of policies for the conservation and exploitation of fish stocks, based on research into fish stocks. The main task of the Department of Fisheries of the Ministry of Agriculture is to plan and implement fisheries policy with a view to developing the fishing industry and increasing its competitiveness. The competence of both ministries for legislation in the fisheries sector is laid down in the Fisheries Act, the Environmental Charges Act and the Fisheries Market Management Act. The second question: 'How does the state fight against the black market in the fisheries sphere, what are the measures, what and how frequent monitoring and have there been positive cases of solutions in this area? ' The Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture do not have such a high share of the black market. Inquiring, the questioners claimed that this proportion was more than half. The monitoring of water bodies shall be carried out on an equal footing with professional and recreational fishermen. No mass violations by recreational fishermen have been observed. In order to improve control and surveillance, legislation has introduced new measures to control illegal fishing. The submission of a prior catch notification or the electronic monitoring of vessels fishing with bottom seines can be considered good examples. In addition, fish caught in waters for the purpose of clear non-memberisation and predatory fishing are continuously searched and removed from water bodies. Once a year, multi-day activities to clean up water bodies, including fishermen, take place. In order to control direct fishing activities in water bodies, the Environmental Inspectorate has planned 110 inspection days per official for this year. As a result of these measures, the number of infringements has slightly decreased and the declaration of catches has also improved. For example, while 395 infringements were registered on Lake Peipsi, Lämmi and Pihkva in 2010, 295 infringements were reported in 2012, 63 of which were misdemeanour proceedings and 1 was criminal proceedings, the rest related to the removal of unclear gear. The number of complaints has also remained within the limits of 11 to 15 over the last few years, with doubts and questions of non-compliance being an important part of this. Work is currently underway to improve the traceability of fishing gears. As a result, there should be a reduction in the number of non-clear grids and a significant reduction in the possibilities for predators to exploit legal labels, and fewer opportunities for fishermen to fish with more fishing gear than permitted. A free-will agreement signed in 2010 between the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Peipsi Fishermen's Association and the Association of Fishers of the Common Waters of Peipsi, which obliges all parties to contribute to combating illegal fishing, can be considered a good example of ensuring the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks in Lake Peipsi, Lämmi- ja Pihkva. Question 3: 'How do you assess the reasonableness of setting fishing quotas on the surface of the lake's capacity and not, for example, the distribution of fishing permits? ' The annual permitted catches by species on Lake Peipsi, Lämmi and Pihkva have been agreed upon by the Fisheries Commission between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Russian Federation, based on the recommendations of scientists from both countries. The size of the fishing quotas depends on the situation of each species. According to the experts, the introduction of catch quotas to ensure sustainable exploitation of resources where the size of the stock has been scientifically assessed is an appropriate measure. At the same time, the implementation of this measure requires effective monitoring that the permitted fishing quotas are not exceeded. Question 4: 'If the inspection has so far shown a rather low capacity against both predatory and black market fishing, would it not be reasonable to consider transferring inspection activities to the Police and Border Guard Board? ' Under the current Fisheries Act, the Police and Border Guard Board still has the right to monitor compliance with the requirements of the fishing legislation, but in practice this is mostly done in cooperation with the Environmental Inspectorate. More active involvement and participation of the Police and Border Guard Board in fisheries monitoring is to be welcomed if they have sufficient resources to do so. In order to achieve better cooperation, an inter-agency working group was set up in 2010 to curb illegal fishing and fishing practices, led by the Environmental Inspectorate. This group includes representatives from the Veterinary and Food Board, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Ministry of the Environment, the Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of Agriculture. The task of this working group was to identify the control options that fall within the remit of the various authorities and to develop proposals for their coordination in order to enhance the effectiveness of national supervision. Cooperation and exchange of information between institutions is still taking place. Many supervisory authorities have concluded cooperation agreements on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U36	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U37	Thank you. Prime Minister! I have heard the most complaining from the recreational fishermen, many of whom have approached me. The procedure for applying for online licences is humiliating and unfair; people have to stand in line for a very long time. There's even been physical violence. On the other hand, servers are collapsing online, the speed of computers is different, etc. The loss of a network permit, however, represents a huge blow to the coastal Native Fishers, as fishing has been their way of life through the hundreds of years. If it is feared that they will try to clear up the lake, even in the case of the sea, this is a question, then it must be said that professional fishermen are doing much, much more. Shouldn't the net fishing limit be given first to the native coastal fishermen living near this water body?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U38	Thank you. In my understanding, these permits are all issued to native fishermen. However, the limitation of catches is certainly justified. At present, fishing has also increased compared to a few years ago, as fish stocks have been relatively well protected, with only Peipsi ink stocks currently being smaller than they should be in Lake Peipsi. But these traditional fishing sites, the place, the latrine, the perch, the pike, the shirt, are now quite numerous. I have data for 2008. Then 2100 tons of fish were caught. In 2012, catches increased to 2700 tonnes. Fish stocks have made it possible to increase catches. As I said in reply to the inquiry, the fishing capacity has been determined in cooperation with scientists and with the authorities of the Russian Federation and Estonia. If there are problems with the technical application of fishing authorisations, that is unfortunate, of course. I promise to pass on the difficulty of applying for your complaining fishing permit.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U39	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U40	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! You talked about the fight with the bandits and the involvement of the Police and Border Guard Board. But it's not enough to get involved. The message of good local fishermen is that the only one who can effectively do this work in Estonia is the Police and Border Guard Board, which has the technology and people to do it. Environmental inspectors or fish inspectors may be a bit bullying some recreational fishermen, but they can't handle serious predators. So I still have the question of when the Police and Border Guard will be serious about this on Peipsi.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U41	Thank you. You must also know through the press that the Estonian public knows that the controllers are being inspected and that this has led to the punishment of at least one person who has not complied with the law. So already the Police and Border Guard Board is controlling it, but in some cases, it can be assumed that fisheries control activities fall within the interest of the Defence Police. Inspectors must also take into account that their activities are being controlled.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U42	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U43	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! I believe that Lake Peipsi with the Narva River, like the Emajõgi River, is one region in the fishing business, but the rules that apply to fishermen are different. If no fish can be caught from the Narva River in April, the nets can be safely thrown into Lake Peipsi. Sometimes the Jõhvi market buys fish that can't be bought in Narva while the fish is spawning. Is it hoped that these rules will ever converge? It seems to me that they really are not in line at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U44	Thank you. I'm sure those rules are still consistent. So I believe, without knowing exactly what rules apply to one body of water or another. But neither the species of the Narva River nor Lake Peipsi exactly overlap; there must be any differences in these rules. I do not take the view that control is ideal, but the fact that it has been possible to increase catches speaks of the fact that control has been quite effective. However, I have already referred to a very small number of ink, which is certainly a problem and a sign of danger. Apparently, the guests in the hall, I see that everyone at that age remembers when Lake Peipsi was on sale in stores. Now the rabid has become a rarity. Obviously, this fact also speaks of the need to limit future catches and control these activities even more effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U45	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I am very pleased that my penguinmate, Lembit Kaljuvee, has raised this issue seriously, because there is a great deal to be done by all the control bodies that watch over fishing on Peipsi. You brought out a lot of bills here. However, there are also figures such as 3000 network permits per year, but there have actually been 50,000 networks in Lake Peipsi, almost 20 times more. One reason is that there have been Chinese-produced networks that are cheap and do not deserve to be removed from the lake at all. The fisherman is no longer concerned. If the nets are in, let them be. Do you think, for example, the use of Chinese nets could be banned on Lake Peipsi?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U47	Well, that's a tough question for a non-fisherman prime minister. I think that our recreational fishermen should be able to use fishing gear with the best value for money. At the same time, it would probably be worth considering more seriously the issue of leaving nets in the sea. In a number of cases, we have managed to regulate this waste of natural resources either through some kind of licence fees or through taxes. Maybe there's some sort of solution here too. This is certainly an important problem. From time to time, however, there are also very conflicting proposals from the residents of Peipsi. They say that the whole problem is that the share of predators has grown too high, Lake Peipsi is full of bass, a place and a pike, who eat the paddles, sizzle, rabid and ink just so that these proportions should be substantially changed. The objection comes from scientists. They have calculated very thoroughly the proportion of fish caught. I would have more confidence in the opinion of scientists on this issue than in the intuition of one or another local resident and recreational fisher. However, the nets left in the water, no one hopes to go out and demand fish, have created a serious problem. This must probably be dealt with more deeply, not just by occasionally harvesting these nets away from the water.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U48	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations and I'm going to ask you again to speak to Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U49	Madam Chairman! Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Nearly 20 years ago, Lup of 1995's new fishing law and mass fraud in the fishing business were now written in the finalized version of its existence. The banner of the new law was that those who were involved in illegal fishing without a fishing permit and without a buying-in receipt could only be punished if they were caught directly on the lake or at the time of the sale of the fish. 20 years on, there has been no improvement in the regulation of the fisheries sector, nor in the transparency of the fish market and the movement of fish. In the meantime, a few hundred million EUR of support from the PRIA has been added, some of the European Union's requirements and quota applications, as well as more mass violations and finer schemes for our joint resource delivery. The black market is still a problem. The Prime Minister thought that its volume was greatly exaggerated in his inquiry. However, if the Estonian side has a fishing quota of 800 to 1000 tonnes per year, there are some 2 000 tonnes of fish caught here, while the Russian side also catches 2 000 tonnes in size. The first and most serious problem was and is and will remain (at least in the last 20 years) the establishment of a procedure so that the so-called black fish would not be caught. It's devastating for this region. In my introductory speech, I said that life is going down there. If we look at how much tax would come on a thousand tons of fish, it would be the amount of money in the budget of these small municipalities that would make you feel seriously. This would be seen in the development of this region. However, unfortunately, there is no development there at the moment, there is regression. It's very hard for me to say, but it is. Another serious problem in fisheries is the distribution of PRIA money in the area. It was only recently that Maaeht wrote about the long-standing problem of Europe's millions disappearing from the molehole, as the Council of Peipsi Fisheries Development Ministers, who is responsible for distributing the Leader euro money for the Peipsi region, makes decisions on the basis of the interests of the narrow and interlinked community, leaving the overall development of the region and the common citizen in the background. 'Handwashes hands' is a noble principle, but in this case it is a single currency for the development of the sector, for the promotion of the region, for job creation and for the sustainable functioning of the environment. But right now, any man with good relationships can get his own fishing port or landing place. The problem is precisely that Peipsi has about 80 landing sites, but most of them do not actually land fish. I have highlighted these two problems. I believe that the government will address these problems and strengthen control over both fishing and the distribution of PRIA money in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U50	Thank you very much, Mr Kaljuvee. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U51	The next question is the members of the Riigikogu Aadu Musta, Priit Toobali, Kalev Kallo, Eldar Efendijev, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laasi, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhini, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Kadri Simsoni, Mailis Repsi, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi and Viktor Vassilyev on 9 May. a request for information on emigration. Aadu Black, colleague of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U52	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! My task is to introduce in a few words the questioning of 16 members of the Riigikogu concerning migration, or rather, the exodus of the population that has become a problem in Estonia. Migration has affected the whole world, including Estonia's history, through the ages, bringing happiness once and for all. It is already the case that, on a small scale, migration has always been an exotic phenomenon; on a medium scale, it has caused problems; on a large scale, it can lead to disasters. In their time, I remember, the Estonians were quite enthusiastic about these little exotic influences. Again and again, Ernest Hemingway's words were repeated that in every port in the world where his ship arrived, an Estonian sailor was waiting for his ship. True, later things have gotten a little more serious. I remember that when the previous President of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, Jüri Engelbrecht, said that an Estonian professor was in every university in the world he visited, he was already a little more concerned. If the sailors were in every port, but they continued in Estonia, it was not a problem. Today, there is talk of brain drain in Estonia. The main thing is what economists and demographers stress that Estonia tends to be dealing with migration in the wrong direction. Already five generations ago, a scientific study of migration began. Ernest George Ravenstein, the head of this field of science, claimed that if migration is not concerned, it would have a habit of maintaining its course and even amplifying it. If anyone goes first, they'll go after him. He also argued that, if governments do not intervene, there will always be a reverse flow, which is the opposite of the main direction of migration, but it is about an order of magnitude weaker. Ten goes away, one of them comes back. Unfortunately, this tends to be the case even with learning mobility. That's what's finally turned into a brain drain. Migration has another quality: it is very long. From the moment we see it and take action, it will take years before we can correct the direction of migration. The only positive example in Estonian history, when it went faster, at least in the size of that time, was the return of the optants of the 1920s. But then there were some horrible arguments. Estonia had become a free country on its own. I don't think we have such a strong argument to bring people back on a massive scale these days. There were some specific questions in our inquiry. However, I repeat that the point of questioning is not even so much to get one or another percent in answer to each question. It is simply that both the heirs and a large part of the Estonian public are a bit alarmed by the wrong direction of migration. I hope that if the Prime Minister gives us a meaningful and compact answer, then at least some of these concerns should be removed, we will know that work is under way on this issue and the development of regulations is also taking place. Even if there are specific concerns that there is no immediate solution, it is sympathetic if the Riigikogu and the wider audience know about them. That was our motive for making an inquiry. We're just asking you to inform us how we can deal with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U53	Thank you very much, Mr Black. Once again, Prime Minister, I would like to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U54	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'm about to grab Professor Aadu Black with a word. His claim was that negative trends rarely succeed in a positive correction. I'll give you an example across the bay from Finland. In the 1970s, and especially in 1970, emigration from Finland was very high at 55,000 per year. This trend has changed, there has been a positive correction of the trend. This change is truly remarkable. You probably don't see this graph very well, but I'm saying that the red line shows exodus here. What has happened here near us is that migration has taken a completely different direction, that more people have started to come into the country than they are going out of it. But now I'm gonna answer your questions. The first question: 'How seriously do you consider the latest statistics by Statistics Estonia to be a problem and a threat to the Estonian economy in view of the decline in population? " Depopulation is an undoubtedly very serious problem in Estonia. In this respect, Estonia is not much different from other post-socialist Europe. Compared to the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Slovenia, our situation is undoubtedly worse than Latvia and Lithuania or Bulgaria, Romania and Hungary. It is a theme circle that concerns both natural and migratory trends. The population is ageing and, as a result, problems in the labour market arise because younger people are emigrating everywhere. According to the 2009 forecast by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, an estimated 110000 people will leave the labour market, i.e. one in five, over the next nine years. If the need to replace outgoing workers, as well as the labour demand resulting from a slight increase in employment, will still help to cover young people entering employment during this decade and the unemployed will help the job, in a few years' time we will be able to get more people out of the labour market than they will. The figures published by the Statistical Office for 2012 in question appear to be an asset to make a final assessment. Whether it's a one-time emigration acceleration or something else, it's time. To some extent, the 2012 figure may also reflect the formalisation of previous departures. At the same time, 2012 was also the year with the greatest immigration. This was largely due to the return migration to Estonia. It should be taken into account that the peculiarity of Estonian emigration is a very strong orientation towards Finland. According to the Finnish Statistical Office, the number of Estonian citizens living there as permanent residents increased from 34006 to 39763, i.e. by 5757 people. If it is conditionally compared to the estimated negative balance of our foreign migration (6629 people), it can be said that four fifths of the people who left Estonia are going to Finland. This is also confirmed by statistics from other countries of our emigration destination. After Finland, the second country of emigration of Estonian people is Britain. However, according to the Statistical Office there, at the beginning of 2012, only 7000 Estonian citizens lived in Britain. To understand the meaning of this number, I refer to the corresponding figures of Lithuania and Latvia. With 134000 immigrants, Lithuanians had become the sixth immigrant nation in Britain and Latvians had become the 19th immigrant nation with 64000 immigrants. Estonians are only around 80 or 90 in this ranking. By the way, Great Britain, which immediately opened up its labour market to the eight Eastern and Central European post-socialist countries that joined the European Union in 2004, the so-called A8, is constantly monitoring immigration from these countries by means of in-depth special investigations. Whether the very strong orientation of emigration from Estonia towards Finland is beneficial or harmful is undoubtedly difficult to assess. On the one hand, the linguistic similarity facilitates the integration of Estonians into the Finns, on the other hand, the proximity of the countries hinders final fixation. The latter point to the fact that, for example, in 2006-2012 only 1331 people exchanged Estonian citizenship for Finland. At the same time, Estonian citizens who took Finnish citizenship made up only 4.7% of all people who were naturalised in Finland, while the share of Estonian citizens among foreigners who reside permanently in Finland was 20.3% at the beginning of this year. Question 2: 'Does the exodus statistics used by the government match the latest data of Statistics Estonia? 'Yes, the Government of the Republic uses data from Statistics Estonia. They are formed on the basis of data from the Population Register, the Police and Border Guard Board and other national databases. It is possible to use immigration statistics from other countries as background information, which I am currently doing in response to an inquiry. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs has carried out studies on emigration potential, the last of which took place in 2010. A new study on emigration potential is underway. If the question referred to the fact that the 2012 study of the unemployment fund revealed that 42% of the working age population wanted to go abroad, the results of the study should be clarified here. The study 'Estonian residents' interest in working abroad' commissioned by the Unemployment Insurance Fund asked people whether they would be interested in taking up work abroad. 16% replied that yes, certainly, and 26% so that you would be interested in it under certain conditions. Thus, 42% of Estonian working-age residents were positively disposed to working abroad. However, there is no reason to believe that 42% of the working-age population will definitely start working abroad. Potential emigrants should be considered to be people who have expressed a strong desire to work abroad and have prepared for it. On this basis, the Ministry of Social Affairs calculates the emigration potential of the working-age population of Estonia. According to the study of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the emigration potential of the working-age population of Estonia in 2010 was estimated to be 8.5%. Question 3: 'What is the position of the Government of the Republic on the recruitment policy of the Member States of the European Union? Does Estonia have similar steps planned? Based on the Europe 2020 strategy, it is important to attract a skilled workforce to the European Union, including Estonia. Several Member States of the European Union have indeed taken an active part in shaping immigration policies and in developing various programmes with a view to making the requirements for people to enter and take up work or study more flexible. Specific target groups and policy changes vary from country to country. While the recruitment policy of the Member States of the European Union is designed to make the European Union more open to people who produce greater added value and to changes in policies and programmes to be implemented in several Member States of the European Union, the Government of the Republic considers that Estonia too needs to create more flexible conditions for people who create high added value, such as qualified workers, researchers, academics and students, and to encourage their immigration. We are not in favour of a mass introduction of elementary labour. Estonia does not plan a recruitment campaign for public employment services in other EU Member States. What has Estonia done? EAS launched an action to support the involvement of development workers in 2008. The aim of the measure is to bring development workers from an international background to work in Estonian companies. 121 projects have been funded under this action. Initiatives initiated by the private sector have also been supported financially, one example of which is the programme "Talents to Home" launched by the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, during which 27 Estonians who went abroad to work and study in Estonia were brought back to Estonia. The draft law amending the Aliens Act pending before the Riigikogu provides for the simplified procedure for the temporary residence permit of top specialists to work in Estonia and for obtaining a temporary residence permit for foreign students to settle in Estonia to be made easier and more operational. The Ministry of the Interior will launch an adaptation programme for foreigners, which will create advisory activities for the adaptation of new immigrants arriving in Estonia, which have so far been offered to limited target groups. The "Study in Estonia' and "Euraxess' networks have been launched under the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research to provide appropriate support to those who come to Estonia to study and do research and to their family members on all issues related to mobility. In the activities of the Ministry of Education and Research, the international recruitment policy is supported by a strategy for internationalisation of higher education and by a strategy for R &amp; D and innovation. They modernise the infrastructure and working environment of science and higher education, make Estonian higher education and research more visible in the world through marketing activities, develop educational programmes in English, support foreign students and foreign researchers with scholarships and grants, develop entrepreneurship training and enhance Estonia's participation in international research programmes. This allows us to bring additional resources, new knowledge, orders and opportunities for the development of the state's high-tech economy to Estonia. During the new strategy period, it is planned to develop effective apprenticeship arrangements in both vocational and higher education, including the provision of apprenticeships for foreign students and thereby improve their knowledge and prospects of joining the Estonian labour market after completing their studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U55	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U56	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! You answered in such a tone as if it weren't bad at all. In your opinion, the situation in Lithuania, Latvia and Hungary is even worse. But there are more people out there! After all, Estonia's population has decreased by more than a quarter of a million people over the last 20 years. That's a lot more than we lost in World War II. Let's take another look at last year. This explosive doubling is still very bad. Young people are going, as you know, the children of the singing revolution, who could start a family here and earn us tax money. People in rural areas are also leaving; small settlements are left empty. We let our people go out and then we start bringing people in from somewhere else. Is this the kind of Estonia we wanted? Can you be proud of such an Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U57	Yes, we did. Yes, it can. The relatively large decrease in the number of inhabitants you referred to is mainly due to the Russian military and their family members leaving Estonia. In 1994, Russian troops were known to leave Estonia and this resulted in a significant decrease in the number of inhabitants. I do not think that we should in any way cry behind it, that the number of inhabitants was at one time considerably higher due to the presence of Russian military personnel and their family members here. I did not say in my reply that emigration is not a problem. On the contrary, in all my reply, I have precisely tried to emphasise that this is a problem. However, the problem must be adequately acknowledged, and it can be dealt with. I mentioned that our situation is undoubtedly worse than that of the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Slovenia, compared with Latvia and Lithuania or Bulgaria, Romania and Hungary. This is not a question of absolute numbers. It is by expressing a percentage that someone's situation is better than someone else's. So there's a problem. This problem is smaller than in some countries, but also bigger than in others.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U58	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U59	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Head of Government! Your political position on emigration is what will definitely shape Estonian policy in this field over several years. You just said a moment ago that you were worried the other way around, but the problem isn't painful enough. Do you and the government as a whole find the problem of leaving highly educated women who are of such age that they probably create their family outside Estonia and often not with a husband of Estonian nationality? Are you concerned about this and ready to take steps to get these families to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U60	Thank you. Of course I'm worried. Of course, I would like the people of Estonia to prefer to live their lives in Estonia. At the same time, we must all acknowledge that when the independence of the Estonian state was restored, our aim was also the free movement of persons. This is the goal we have pursued. In their question, good heirs also mentioned that one study showed that 42% of Estonian people would be ready to work abroad. I, too, have recently followed studies that describe developments around the world and in Europe, as well as in earlier times. For example, one recently published Global Talent Mobility Survey confirms that surveys in nine European countries show that as much as 72% of workers in these countries are ready to work abroad. We have 42% of them, but 'they' are Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom, as much as 72%. I do not know exactly whether these 42% and 72% are comparable, these figures have been found on the basis of the same methodology, but I do know that this study that I have referred to has, according to the same methodology, investigated the willingness of people in these countries to work abroad in previous years. It has become apparent that this trend is growing. While, according to this study, 62% of people were ready to work abroad in 2006, it was already 64% in 2009 and 72% in 2011. So the willingness of people to sell their workforce at the highest possible cost, where such a price is offered, has increased considerably in Europe. But the same trend is characteristic of BRIC countries, for example. So everywhere in the world, there has been a growing willingness to sell their workforce outside their home country. In fact, Europeans are the most flexible in this area, they are the most prone to work abroad, but it must be said that destinations do not differ very much compared to other countries. The first preference, for example, in the BRIC countries already cited or in those Member States of the European Union, is the United States. So this is a trend. Among the old European countries, France and Great Britain are the most willing to work abroad, the most modest being the Germans, the Italians and the Dutch. But be it said that these differences between countries are not very large, on average 72% of all the workers in these nine countries are ready to work abroad. It's a growing trend, that's what we have to take into account. In most cases, however, it has been found that improving living standards and working conditions, creating an appropriate working environment in terms of equipment, equipment and people is something that is attractive to people and that still keeps them at home even if they are able to pass through the world's top laboratories or hospitals of excellence. However, it cannot always be said that the work of people outside their own country is deplorable. This cannot be said especially when these people, working outside their own country, acquire valuable skills and then return home. I have also given such examples of Estonia from this speaker board before. In the medical field, we have had quite a few cases when a doctor who has worked a year outside Estonia has later introduced certain practices or treatments in Estonia that have preserved the lives of hundreds and thousands of people in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U61	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In your responses to emigration, you said that emigration is really a problem in Estonia. You said that, as head of government, you would not support mass immigration of unskilled workers into Estonia, although we certainly need these people. In the future, you will be contributing specifically to development specialists and so on. If you consider that there are many good young people in Estonia, you might think that there should also be bright heads in Estonia who, after graduating from school, could start working as development specialists in different fields. Do you think anything has gone wrong in our education policy that our country is lacking in the preparation of development specialists? If so, what could be improved in education policy in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U63	Thank you. No, I wouldn't blame our education system very much. However, the reasons for emigration must be analysed soberly and the area where people move out of Estonia the most. This analysis still leads to the conclusion that it is the differences in pay that make people move. It is not just a question of development specialists. Today's Postimees looks very grateful at the migration of doctors and not only at the migration of doctors from Estonia to Finland. It has become clear that doctors from other Member States of the European Union also migrate to a place where higher wages are paid. Doctors are also leaving the Member States of the European Union with the highest salaries of doctors in Europe. Doctors from the United Kingdom go to Canada, Australia, the United States, for example. Man's attempt to apply his knowledge in the best way, at the highest level, is evidently inherent. Unpatriotic behavior is unlikely to be criticised for those who strive for the composition of top laboratories, top hospitals, or top orchestras. It is inherent in man, and it will probably remain so in the future. The question is, how can we, in our laboratories, hospitals and orchestras, maintain the highest quality so that people are less tempted to leave here? If you look for one of the parameters that affects people the most, it's a higher salary. Countries with higher levels of pay are targeted at countries with lower incomes. It is only economic growth that contributes to wage growth, by means of one-off methods, and no wage problem can be solved by any campaign.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U64	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your constructive response. I will now change the subject if allowed and talk about immigration instead of emigration. As I move to Russia, I have met a number of people who are proud that one of their four grandparents was an Estonian. They dare to cover even the monuments of exiled Estonians in the shadow of the darkness with huge bouquets of flowers. When I found out who they were, they asked me if they could be expected in the country of their ancestors, or whether they would be called chicks here, and if they could find an application in Estonia. I was only able to answer so much that it is such a serious question that they need to think for themselves whether the Konguta they want to come to is in India or in Estonia. But I was careful. It is a good thing to ask the Prime Minister's opinion now what to say to the descendants of ethnic Estonians who love their homeland, but who fear it too.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U66	Thank you. In any case, labelling and measuring with a single standard should be avoided. If it is a good specialist that is needed in Estonia, it is welcome in Estonia. I was talking about doctors earlier. We know that Kohtla-Järve also employs several doctors from Siberia who have acquired good Estonian language skills during the year. There is usually migration from point A to point B.It is not the case that people come from all parts of the world in the same way. Migration takes place between two points and is primarily based on knowledge and relations. If anyone who has started working in Estonia has done well here, his former neighbours, friends and friends wish to repeat this success story and come here. Highly educated qualified professionals are certainly welcome in Estonia, also considering that we will have an increase in unemployment in the near future compared to the increase in labour force. Good professionals are welcome all over the world. The fight is about talented young people all over the world. No country is thinking about how talented people can somehow be rejected. Unfortunately, we have to admit that our rules have been unreasonablely bureaucratic. This error is being corrected by the honourable Riigikogu through the current draft law. For example, it is deeply incomprehensible to me why a foreigner who has defended his degree in Estonia or has graduated from a university must leave the country immediately after receiving his graduation diploma. Normally, those countries that earn relatively well in higher education for foreigners will not get their revenues from selling higher education services, but from the fact that the finaliter, postgraduates, will continue to work in that country will be creatively open up there and create a very high added value. We are now planning to change this practice, I hope the Riigikogu intends to change it just as the government does. We also intend, with you of course, to create a channel for the rapid introduction of highly educated people into Estonia. I consider it relatively bureaucratic and irrational to demand that a person apply for a work permit when he or she is not established in Estonia. I don't understand what such a restriction has come about. If someone has already come to Estonia, he or she could also receive the necessary procedures when staying in Estonia with a tourist visa so that he or she can be granted a work permit here. Unfortunately, however, we have had different cases in practice. For example, a very good IT specialist from China, whose work permit had ended, had to leave here in order to apply for a new permit. The procedure took so long that he found a better income in China and Estonia has lost one good specialist again. This is an isolated case and cannot be generalised on this basis, but unfortunately we all know that there have been cases like this in Estonia. We should make our regulations in such a way that there will be no more such cases in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U67	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U68	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. My question is on the same subject as the question of Aadu Black. I met my classmate recently. The man will soon be 60, he will have an Estonian passport, no health, he will have a pension, 214 euros. He has a clear idea that he is leaving Estonia. He turned to me, saying that sometimes I could ask the Minister of Social Affairs about this. You can ask the Prime Minister today. What do I say to him when I look at this poster that says it's good to live in Estonia? Okay, I'm okay with that. But he wants to leave.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U69	Of course, even in the richest countries in the world, it is not all good to live. There are people who live in relative or absolute poverty. There is no country in the world where absolutely everyone would be happy to live. However, we must strive to ensure that as many people as possible live in Estonia. It should be said that in many countries where people have gone from Estonia, their income is relatively modest according to surveys. For example, the United Kingdom has already done very in-depth research on the incomes of immigrants from eight Central and Eastern European countries and has found that the bulk, almost 50% of these people receive a salary of GBP 200.299 per week. It is not a very attractive salary; it is not a salary that, for purely economic reasons, should force people to leave their home country. I believe that the shortage of labour in Estonia will soon be at the level that it will be possible to earn at least this salary at home. But our country is developing and this development has actually been very good. I believe that this development will continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U70	Thank you, Prime Minister. No further questions for you. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U71	We will move to the fourth inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Peeter Võsa, Viktor Vassilyev, Priit Toobal, Tarmo Tamm and Vladimir Velman on 22 April 2013. The inquiry is about statistics on bribery cases of the Road Administration's traffic register offices. Reply by Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. I ask the representative of the Speakers of the Riigikogu, Peter Võsa, to introduce the inquiry!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U72	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, On 17 April 2013, the Defence Police Officers detained Jaanus Tammets, acting Head of the Traffic Register Narva Office of the Road Administration, a member of the Social Democratic Party, suspected of professional counterfeiting and repeated bribery. The sad fact that once again, in some areas of Estonia, bribes have been offered or taken in order to easily pass the driving test of the Road Administration has become public almost every year through the media. Since these are systematic bribery cases in different areas of the Road Administration's traffic register offices, we have the following questions for you. Has the number of corruption offences in the administration of the Road Administration increased or decreased in the last two years? What has the Ministry done to prevent individuals who have repeatedly been in trouble with the law, such as Jaanus Tammets, a member of the Social Democratic Party, from returning to a position of responsibility where bribery can be taken? What are you going to do to avoid bribery at the Road Administration's traffic register offices in the future? You see, I am such an old person that I still remember the Soviet Socialist Republic of Estonia, where bribery was the norm of life. The one who drove the Volga (my father was driving), paid more, the one who was driving the Zaporogetz (I was driving), paid less, but the three rubles were definitely a cost. When do we finally get rid of such a socialist age? Or maybe if the socialist worldview spread, we could legitimize such a socialist standard of conduct? This last question, of course, does not have to be answered by the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U73	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, of the Riigikogu, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U74	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Well, Mr. Võsa, you can do words. But I will answer your questions now. Question number one: How has the number of corruption offences in the administration of the Road Administration increased or decreased in the last two years? " As far as I know, in your thriving introduction, you said there was a systematic bribe taking place. I realized in your follow-up, you probably remembered nostalgically the lovely Soviet time when you could only drive Zaporogetz and have the envelope with you. In the Republic of Estonia, this is the state of affairs today, we have reviewed that, on average, procedures for corruption crimes or crimes or crimes related to corruption have started once a year. There you go! Now think of your big talk! The second question: 'What has the Ministry done to prevent persons who have repeatedly been in trouble with the law, such as Jaanus Tammets, a member of the Social Democratic Party, from returning to a position of responsibility where bribery can be taken? " It is probably not appropriate to deal with someone named Mr. Tammets in this chair. I hate to say it, but to me, he's just someone because I don't know him. But, of course, since the honourable members of the Riigikogu asked, I asked for a very thorough examination of the subject. He was appointed to the Road Administration in November 2009. There are pretty thorough procedures. Of course, there is also the requirement of the Civil Service Act that the person who has been convicted of a crime should not take up any public office. The criminal records were checked, previous records were reviewed and it became clear that Tammets had not been in trouble with the law. In your question, you referred to it as being some kind of relapse or even a disease, that you must immediately take bribes. Turns out it's not there. At the same time, Tammets is, of course, dismissed from office today. But the question itself is good. I think that is the case among the people: if a person is tempted to bribe somewhere, then it is likely that the first three candidates will be the DMV. (The latter is not a formal DMV.) There is quite a lot of work done to ensure that all procedures and procedures (and they are not limited) are legally carried out in the traffic register. First of all, the Traffic Act, as well as the Civil Service Act, provides that a worker in the traffic register as an examiner must not be punished for a criminal offence committed. Pretty comprehensive technical measures have been taken to prevent corruption. In fact, any operation does not depend on one person only. Each operation shall be left with a trace so that it may subsequently be possible to assess, in the course of internal control or external control, how one or the other decision relating to the traffic register has been taken. Of course, all traffic theory and driving tests need to be monitored in real time. They're being recorded. This reduces the risk that a person's performance will not be demonstrated or assessed in an objective manner. Also, a few years ago, the possibility to check a vehicle before registration was restricted to the outside of the register office. Its aim was to reduce the possibility of registering vehicles without showing them or registering non-compliant vehicles. Although tractors can still be checked outside the register offices prior to registration, each departure must be registered in advance. Technical solutions have been established for this purpose in the Traffic Register Information System. In addition, biometric identification devices are also introduced in the traffic register offices, which reduce the possibility of a third party passing the test. Your third question: 'What are you planning to do to avoid bribery cases in the Road Administration's traffic register offices? ' As I explained in the previous reply, in recent years the Road Administration has already implemented systematic actions to reduce the risk of corruption. While the main focus of activities in the previous period was on the introduction of a variety of technical instruments, in the coming years more emphasis will certainly be placed on the human factor. One of the main measures will be the introduction of common risk management and supervision principles in the Road Administration. They've been developed, now they're being introduced by the Road Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U75	Minister, there are questions for you. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U76	Thank you. Good minister! You said that when it comes to bribery, the first three are still called the DMV, or the DMV. We know that the question of bribery arises when some kind of service or commodity is in deficit or unavailable. However, I have not heard, for example, that a bribe has been made or taken at the Employment Service or Health Insurance Office, or that someone else has asked for a service for bribery, even in order to get a decent job, for example, as a minister. No one has claimed a bribe from me as a member of the Riigikogu, and no one has offered it either. But what is so wrong with the services of the car register centre that bribes spread on a massive scale, at least there is talk of bribery and cases are also known? What is wrong with these services?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U77	Nothing's wrong. You had probably prepared your question before. I told you, if we look at statistics, well, there can always be hidden cases, no one can give heads, then it's still quite close to the minimum compared to earlier times. Let's look at technical solutions, all kinds of e-services. First of all, I disprove the understanding that there are some inaccessible services at the DMV. There is no need to pay for something to be done faster or better. However, risks associated with the need for the registration centre to take negative decisions for some reason must be mitigated. There are technical solutions for this, as well as human factor activities. I have already answered Mr. Bush's obituary in the introduction to the inquiry. He reminded me of Soviet times when he had to go everywhere with an envelope. I do not want to say that this same image goes along with the so-called Estonian car registration centre, but perhaps in the 1990s it was. I may be hurting the people who worked then, but if we look at this system, I really wouldn't dare put it, say, in a very high position. At the same time, any such decision is certainly accompanied by a risk of corruption, and the management of companies and institutions are under an obligation to mitigate these risks. We've described these possibilities for grounding them. You can never avoid them completely, because a person is still weak from time to time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U78	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U79	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. My question is driven by another cry by Peter Võsa. He claimed that Jaanus Tammets was a member of the Social Democratic Party. On my proposal as leader of the Ida-Viru region, Jaanus Tammets is now excluded from the Social Democratic Party. I know your party has had this approach, for example, towards Indrek Raudse and Nikolai Stelmach. There should not be people in the party who in any way question the democratic and legal functioning of the Estonian state. As a political leader of one party, how do you assess Peter Võsa's question and cry out in a situation where his own party protects two corruptions, Parbus and Seppa, until the Supreme Court makes its decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U80	The questioner's not gonna get knocked out of his mouth.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U81	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There are certainly many urban legends that the statistics do not always confirm, as you have rightly pointed out today. But unfortunately, there are also stories from time to time that have to be said that they are true. One thing is clear: if, for example, in Tallinn, you try to perform certain operations at a certain time in the Traffic Register Office, then the whole working day will go away. You have stressed that different electronic options have been created. But what is the reason why, at a certain time, the offices of the traffic register are so busy that it may happen that certain services will not be available within the normal working day?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U83	Thank you. I will state my clear position. The management of the Road Administration has confirmed that they will further develop the e-services network. I have no doubt that these plans are very specific and that, indeed, this service is available to people. I believe you meant the case where the law introduced a general obligation to register mopeds, which created queues. It was like that at some point. But that's not an excuse, of course. If there is a legal requirement for registration of mopeds, preceded by long consideration, then I am absolutely convinced that the Road Administration must be able to serve people and must ensure that people do not have to sit there for hours. It's actually unacceptable, we have the 21st century. There's a hundred ways to do it. I know the administration of the Road Administration takes this very seriously. All kinds of things happen, but I really think that the level of services must be acceptable. There can always be certain expectations, traffic tests, and many other things that may require time. It is not possible to go to the doctor in five minutes and get a diagnosis. That's the way these services are. But usually such long queues cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U84	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U85	Thank you. I did not really want to initiate a political primordialisation, but I want to know when it will end up with a situation in which no more bribery will be made or given in the offices of the traffic register. Could such a time ever come in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U86	I hope so. I wish that were the case too. That is our demand. I believe that time will come. But once again, the number of these activities and the high level of public attention must be taken into account. I once again assure you that the management of the Road Administration has taken various surveillance measures. All of this has not only happened on the outside, but on the one hand, the internal control measures by which the issue of the human factor is looked at very thoroughly, actually work completely. I hope that all this will lead to permanent corruption. But it can never be ruled out, it can always occur. It is the human factor that will always be a risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U87	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U88	Let's move on to the next question. This is answered by Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. I ask Olga Sõtnik, representative of the Speakers of the Riigikogu, to introduce the inquiry! The inquiry was submitted on 6 May 2013 and the subject is road construction and maintenance. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been said, our question is about road construction and maintenance. Roads and streets form an essential part of the infrastructure needed for day-to-day operation. Unfortunately, several studies and surveys show that the road situation is getting worse every year. The 2011 study of the Road Technology Centre showed a long-term cumulative underfunding of 836 million euros for state roads. According to Professor Priit Willbach and lecturer Rene Pruunsilla, the cumulative underfunding for local roads and streets is roughly 300 million euros. As a result, the cover for the main Estonian roads is on average 13 years old, the cover for the main roads is on average 25 years old and the cover for the secondary roads and local roads is already more than 30 years old. Paragraph 16 (2) of the Road Act states that, in order to finance road maintenance, the state budget provides for a total amount of expenditure corresponding to at least 75% of the excise duty on fuel and 25% of the excise duty on specially labelled fuels. Since 2003, the state budget is based on the fact that external support is also included in the estimated rate of excise duties on fuels, which has led to large and expensive projects built with euro money which have further reduced the financing of smaller roads. The Road Act in force until 1 March 2009 stipulated that at least 10% of the amount earmarked for the financing of road maintenance from the state budget would be allocated to investments in local roads. Paragraph 16 (3) of the Road Act was also amended by the State's 2009 Supplementary Budget and related Acts Act and the requirement that at least 10% of the amount earmarked for the financing of road maintenance is allocated to local road investments was abolished. In 2008, EUR 40.5 million was allocated from the state budget to local roads, for which the local authorities have said that this was an amount that really allowed investment in roads. In the following period, the underfunding of local roads in 2009-2012 has led to a clearly low level of EUR 29,3 million allocated to local authorities this year. With regard to all these facts, we have eight questions, which I am not reading out now, in the hope that the Minister will do it himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U90	Please respond to the inquiry by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer the question. The first question: 'The share of state roads in total road length is approximately 28.4%, while the share of local roads and streets is 40.3%. The rest are private and forest roads. At the same time, only 9.4% of road maintenance funding goes to local government roads. Why do you consider the current distribution of road resources between the state and local roads to be logical and fair? ' First of all, the 2013 state budget. Indeed, 10% of the resources allocated to road maintenance under the Road Act are allocated to road maintenance by local authorities. As regards the logic and fairness of this financial allocation, it is the responsibility of local authorities to maintain roads and streets under the Local Government Organisation Act. The legislator has provided that local authorities must refrain from organising local roads from their own resources and, if necessary, actually manage without additional support. In doing so, the calculation formula for the equalisation fund provided for local government units in the State Budget Act also directly takes into account the road maintenance tools of local government roads. If the state funding from the state budget were to finance the entire self-government task, it should also be accompanied by a precise provision by the state of how and where this money should and should be spent, but this would be contrary to the principles of autonomy of the local government and would reduce the responsibility of the municipalities in carrying out the tasks assigned to them by law. When the Road Act in force in 1999, in order to manage and maintain the network of national roads, 75% of the fuel excise funds were planned. I've looked at it again, that's exactly what it was. This 75% is not intended for roads as such, but the decision of the legislator at the time was that it was intended for national routes. At that time, those who prepared the law had in mind that the local government still had to cope with its basic function by means of its revenue base. That is actually what results from the current agreements in our laws and the justifications for one or the other sum. I do not want to say at all that there are sufficient resources for national roads, nor do I want to say that about municipal roads. I believe that roads are an area where resources are always lacking. You referred to the assessment and various studies of the professor at Tallinn University of Applied Sciences. These estimates show very large figures of how much more money could be spent so that we can keep the level of roads due to laws and legislation. In 2003, or rather, in 2004, it was decided that the State could provide additional funding for local government road investments. Then this 5% clause was legalised as a result of strong pressure from local governments. Then what happened? What happened was that the National Audit Office criticised a few years later that local governments did not use these investments. They perform their basic functions with this money, maintain you, perform normal repairs, but they don't invest. That is why we changed this law in 2008 to eliminate this legal dispute. We said, well, if the municipalities have traded this line, let the money go to the local roads. Let them do whatever they want. Although this initial 1999 agreement provided for a different system. In my opinion, this is a very normal agreement that local roads are managed from the basic income of local governments. We are not, moreover, talking about financing public transport, culture or social life with additional resources from which the state finances similar functions. That's the deal. However, all of this does not mean that there is too much money for roads. But it is clear that we do not have the point of throwing out a child with washing water, and even the municipalities do not need to humiliate themselves, arguing that keeping tea, which is an important function of a normal government, would be something that the municipality really should not be able to do with basic tax revenues. The self-question is that self-government leaders often say that you can see that there is not enough tax revenue, that there is a shortage. I also watched how local governments used the money. I have the sum of these figures. In times of crisis, when it had to be pulled together, the municipalities reduced their tea money very much. I'm not going to read the bill, or there'll be more questions. I have the tables with me. But now that the streets of Tallinn are embarrassing us all, there is a new page in this dispute: sorry, local governments do not need to invest in their basic revenues, but the state has one additional form of income, give it instead from there! We have forgotten that in fact, the basic income of the municipality comes from elsewhere. That's the stop. Traffic intensity is always important for roads. If we compare, it is probably unwise to compare the mileage of roads and the amount of money spent. It is clear that roads have different classes: there are main roads, secondary roads, supporting roads, city streets, and intra-block roads. The costs of investment and maintenance are also completely different. Above all, it depends, of course, on the intensity of the traffic. The second question: 'Road specialists have said that stable road maintenance is a prerequisite for proper roads. In 2009-2011 less funds were allocated to local roads than in 2008. Why do you wonder today about the bad situation of the roads of Estonian municipalities when the government itself has created such a situation with its own policies? ' I actually already answered that question. Also in 2009-2010, during the crisis, municipalities actually quite significantly reduced their own funds, the basic revenues used for roads. I would like to remind you once again that if we start talking about future solutions here, one thing really is that municipalities can handle this revenue base. I would point out that a very large number of municipalities receive from the Equalisation Fund, which includes parameters and components of roads. It is not twice that we can fund teas from the state budget lines. But there's a place where I think there's really trouble. While EU funds have been used here, we ourselves have said many times to local governments that they are probably smaller towns, but also county towns, where there is not enough money for investments, because investment projects are large if they are to be made as a whole. In that case, it might be reasonable for the State to have any possibility of granting investment aid. It is now the order that we share excise money. There is no reason to feel that we are in a bad position because we have greatly increased this money, and this year we increased it by 60% compared to last year. So it's what the municipalities use, as they think it is, but it should actually go for investment. The maintenance, maintenance and elementary maintenance of roads are still the main task of the municipalities, which must be managed by themselves. If not, there is already a problem with the general financing model of local governments. The third question: 'The programme of the Government of the Republic of Estonia 2011-2015 states that the aim of the government association is to increase the share of funding for local road savings. When will this goal actually be fulfilled? The answer is simple. As I said, local road savings have actually increased the share of public funding each year. I'll tell you the numbers. In 2012, EUR 18.14 million was allocated from the state budget to local authorities, which was 43.4% more than in 2011. EUR 29,3 million will be allocated in this financial year, which is 60% more than in 2012. If structural resources are added, the share of money going to local roads is significantly higher. For example, by 2012, EUR 47.2 million was allocated to local roads, i.e. 15.6% of which was EUR 18.1 million for the state and EUR 29 million for the European Union's Structural Funds. In addition, regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler has always kept open the so-called local light traffic programme. For this purpose, state budget resources are provided and have been actively used by local authorities. The answer is, therefore, that the increase in public funding has been quite significant, but the deep problem I referred to in the answer to the first and second questions is there. Question 4: 'One problem has been pointed out that today the national road register contains only kilometres of roads. In reality, the width of roads can be very different, so it would be necessary to map the volume of existing road networks in square kilometres, age and road facilities in order to plan the reconstruction and maintenance of roads on a volume basis. How far is the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications improving the road register? ' National road data are reflected in the national road register in the amount prescribed by law. There is no question with national routes; data will also be regularly changed depending on the change in the situation of roads. These data are quite up-to-date. When it comes to local authorities' ways, it must first be made clear that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has not been entrusted with the task of recording the data on roads belonging to local authorities in the national road register. It is still the responsibility of the owner, in this case the local government, to keep the accounts of its assets on the balance sheet and also to properly record the data in the national road register. As an interim note, a few years ago, when it was found that the roads of the municipalities could also be in this road register, the law was amended. Now we are in a situation where local governments are moving at a very slow pace in compliance with this law, let us say so. We can say that most local authorities have not complied with the registration requirements of the Road Act. The municipalities again point to a lack of resources. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has offered that the Public Road Administration could be an advisor and assistant to local government associations here, could work together to solve this problem. Financially, this problem is actually not very big, so the same funding from the state for municipal roads could be used. One of the most important functions of the road register has been the pooling of information on the roads on which road owners can plan their activities, taking into account both the existence of roads and resources. In the work of the Transport and Road Working Group of the delegation of the Interministerial Commission of the Government and the Municipalities' Associations' Cooperation Council, the topics of the inventory of local government roads have been discussed several times in recent years. It has been jointly found that the optimal progress in the process of inventorying local roads is needed to follow as much as possible the Road Administration model for collecting and using information on state roads. National self-government associations need to make a joint binding decision, jointly prepare a procurement, fund it and bring the road register into line with the requirements of the law. In principle, it has been agreed that a procurement could be organised by the Road Administration, but the decision to do so must be clearly formulated by the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and must have the consent to finance the above-mentioned procurements from the state to local roads. Question 5: 'The 2010 audit of state control states that the actual state of local roads is not known at national level. [- - -] How has the situation improved by 2013? ' I repeat my guiding motive. The need to finance roads first needs to be known to the owner of the road. Therefore, the need to finance local roads must be assessed by the local authority which owns these roads. In order to facilitate a common approach, the country has established a road register in which local road data are also recorded. In the previous paragraph, I explained where we have come from in order to have a comprehensive road register, to reflect all the routes of local authorities, to be inventoryed and to cover all the necessary data required by the law and by the Statute of the Road Register. This, of course, must be continued. Question 6: 'The proposal of the Estonian Association of Cities and the Estonian Association of Rural Governments in the negotiations on the budget for the following year was to increase the amount of money allocated to local roads by 20% of the planned excise duty on motor fuel by 2014. For what reason did the government coalition not take this proposal into account? ' As explained in the reply to the first point, it is not a question of the unwillingness of the government coalition to allocate more money to local governments from fuel excise funds, but of the possibilities of the state budget. Additional allocations could only come at the expense of state roads if we were to share the share of excise duties on fuel for state roads. At the same time, we recognise that state roads are also in a situation where a good master would rather invest further so that the roads do not fall apart. However, despite this situation, we have still increased the volume of tea money going to local authorities. I'm sorry! I understand we're out of time. I could not answer the seventh and eighth questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U92	Good Minister, there are questions for you. Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Thank you for your comprehensive answers. You didn't have time to answer the seventh and eighth questions. Perhaps you can answer these questions now in a round of questions and answers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U94	Thank you. The seventh question concerned the use of limestone chippings in construction. If I understand this correctly, the questioners consider limestone fragments to be one of the reasons why our tea covers rapidly disintegrate because we use chlorides in winter, mainly sodium chloride. They'll ask what the research will tell us if we should use more granite fragments. That's, by the way, a good question. To reply briefly, the Road Administration's position is based on various studies, which have been a thorough cost-benefit analysis. Where the traffic rate is more than 8000 cars per day, two variants need to be calculated for the upper layer under the rubble. First, it is possible to use tardstone fragments, or granite. Its weakness is that it is not local material. Second, a black fragment may be used, usually a limestone that has been produced by a bituminous protective layer. For smaller traffic only limestone is used. I will briefly summarise the studies that have examined the effects of sodium chloride on limestone. Road engineers could talk about this for a long time. I've realized that if you build high-quality cars with a traffic frequency of less than 8,000 cars, the limestone will be fine. We must inevitably use sodium chloride because we have snow and ice, the weather is warming and freezing. But in fact, the limestone still holds up to the so-called one planned life cycle. If either asphalt or other layers are poorly built, cracks are left in and monitoring is not sufficient, then the effect of sodium chloride on the lower layers of roads is immediately greater and as a result the roads will decompose more rapidly. That's exactly what probably happened on the Liberty Avenue. That's a daily driver's claim, Peter Võsa could investigate it. There's talk on the town that surveillance was bad on the Vabaduse Avenue. The builder must've used it, left some layers unscaled, and the road is falling apart pretty quickly. Of course, this campaign that took place here in Savisaar, which is simply a disgrace, is not going to improve this situation. The error is likely to have occurred during the construction process. I don't know if Savisaar was the supervisor or anyone else, but that's the mistake. The quality of construction is damn important. I think that both municipalities and the state are working very hard here to ensure that owner supervision is organised in a demanding manner and that guarantee systems are in place. We put a lot of money in the road. The builder must feel that quality is very important. The last question again contained the same statement that the back tires are breaking down our roads, which is why the surface of the roads is quickly consumed, etc. That's right in itself. The questioners want to know if they should do something about the back tires in order to reduce their impact on the roads. I think the question might stay up. This has to be dealt with, certainly by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Road Administration. However, it is clear that, given our peculiarity, it is very difficult for us to force drivers to buy flat tires instead of back tires, because they are just safer. It is clear that the impact of stud tyres on the road owner is much more costly than that of the road owner, but its counterweight is safety. Do you want to take any action? I think it could be dealt with. The Nordic countries are looking for similar solutions. There are a number of area-based solutions. Cities have offered opportunities to reduce the use of back-tire tyres in the city. However, if we think about Estonia, solutions that may be suitable in a million cities with really a lot of traffic may not be suitable for us. When a person comes from a smaller place and wants to drive to town, he doesn't switch back tires for flats. They should be millionaires, or at least families with very expensive handbags, with flat tires and back tires in winter, and they would change their tires before going to the city. But the right thing is that the back tires eat more tea than flat tires, but road safety is the other side. Should we think of something here? What have we done? We have reduced the allowed time for the use of studded tyres, with one exception, of course: if there is slippery, ice or snow, then the use of studded tyres is allowed even longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U95	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U96	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Did I get it right that the problem really is the quality of the road and the work of the builder, the problem is not material, but construction supervision? If I understood correctly, how is Tallinn, for example, or the mayor of Tallinn, the client of the job, guilty of the work done by the workmaker?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U97	Thank you. You asked a question, but you didn't tell me what problem you were talking about. If we're looking for whoever's responsible for the streets in Tallinn, it's Edgar Savisaar's fault, there's nothing to do, even though you can come up with all kinds of campaigns, processions or whatever. If we look at the municipalities and put them in the same row, it is clear that the municipalities who really depend on the Equalisation Fund, who may have disproportionate amounts of roads compared to the number of inhabitants, but when we talk about road maintenance and systematic maintenance repair and overhaul of roads, Tallinn should just be embarrassed to point the finger at the country. It's some stupidity of the city state of Tallinn, let's say, brainwashed imagination. We can make a budget for Tallinn. We will see how radically there has been a reduction in resources for basic maintenance, systematic maintenance and overhaul of the city's roads. The result is actually here. That is the result! It has been a political choice. With more or less knowledge of the current pattern of Tallinn City Government, I think it has been an informed choice. That's what's done. Of course, be it Tallinn, Helsinki or any other Nordic city, all the time it is necessary to improve the quality of construction, to look for better and more durable building materials that are more economical, and to better control the work of the builder. But the fact that money designed to keep the roads in Tallinn to a certain level has been significantly reduced is simply a fact. I think that is why the situation in Tallinn is so irritating in spring.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U98	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I actually wanted to ask you about sodium chloride. Helsinki has drastically reduced the use of sodium chloride. Finns are quite accustomed to the fact that, for example, patterns are being transported into ice. But we have very strict orders from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. For example, the city basically has to flood the streets. Somehow, people think there must be black asphalt at 30 degrees. When you answered the previous question, you spoke so fluently about the mayor of Tallinn. I have a question for the Minister now. Don't you think there's a little bit of a blame here as the government and as your minister? For example, the St Petersburg road or the Via Baltica road to the port or the airport could be a little national, not just a city matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U100	Absolutely. In 2007, when I became Minister of Economic Affairs with your honorable approval, I will address this part of the hall, I met with the Mayor of Tallinn and said that all important road investments in Tallinn will receive state support. Let us be honest, when we are talking about the development of major intersections, it must be said that, of course, the highest traffic density is in and around Tallinn. Tallinn worked very hard to complete this Ülemiste project. We understand that the Ülemiste project is quite large for Tallinn. You can say that this is European money, but for us, this European money is an additional budget revenue that we can channel to the state and to transport in view of the necessary investments. The project of the Northern Passage, the project of the part coming towards the city from the St. Petersburg Road Väo traffic junction, has not been completed. I'm not talking about Haaberst intersection. These projects simply have not been carried out. If the bottom line of your question is that the country should take this road, then we will arrive at exactly the same thought that exists in many Estonian cities: 'Listen, let the country take all these roads! We'd be happy to pay a municipal pension, hand out a municipal newspaper, do municipal television, open up some stupid stuff. But we'd rather not perform the basic functions. ' I don't think it would make any sense if the country were to take care of the city's roads. If the city can't do it, I don't know. By the way, we are very open about the next financial period of the European Union, so that Tallinn can develop its own understanding. I have not, frankly, heard from the city authorities a clear understanding of where the state should plan something so that the city's important transport hubs can be covered with European money. In fact, when we talk about cost, 85% put money into such projects by the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U101	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U102	Let's move on to the sixth question. This is answered by Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Peeter Võsa, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair, will introduce him to the inquiry!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U103	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In the first half of this year, the study of Turku Research AS revealed that when speaking about the latest political scandals, Estonian residents consider trade in residence permits for the leading members of the IRL to be the greatest threat to the security of the state when these permits were obtained by Russian citizens. Among the people, I do not know whether there are jokes or quite seriously that the IRL is selling Estonia to Russia unnoticed, piece by piece. According to various sources, a few hundred Russian businessmen, some of whom are involved in fictitious investments and housing, bankruptcy masters and wanted criminals, received a residence permit through abuse of office. It was also said that the increase in the residence permit business and quota of the IRL's senior members was accompanied by an attempt to legitimise the sale of border and defence sensitive countries to foreigners. It's been a year and a half since the scandal. We therefore have questions for the Minister. We ask you to explain what happened to those persons who acquired the residence permit of the Republic of Estonia through the IRL residence permit trading scheme. Secondly, we would like to know the following: Among the persons who obtained the residence permit were underworld figures, such as Alexander Kharkovskiy of the influential criminal group, known as Rower, and Sergei Lalakin, nicknamed onionake. Do these and other persons with criminal backgrounds hold a valid residence permit for the Republic of Estonia as of 6 May 2013 and do you not consider that this is not a national security threat to the Republic of Estonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U104	Thank you. I ask the Minister of the Interior to answer the questioning of the Riigikogu Chair. Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U105	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable heirs! You have asked two questions. The answer to the first question is as follows: In 2011, the Police and Border Guard Board examined the use of 124 residence permits issued for business purposes and at the end of the year proceedings were initiated for the revocation of 61 residence permits. The residence permit of 20 persons was actually revoked. In 2012, the Police and Border Guard Board checked all persons holding a valid residence permit for business at the beginning of that year. The suspicion that the residence permit has not been used for its purpose arose in the case of approximately 180 persons and the procedure for the revocation of the residence permit was initiated against 20 persons, but the decision to revoke these residence permits has not yet been taken. The Police and Border Guard Board will also monitor all persons holding a valid residence permit for business purposes this year, including persons whose revocation proceedings in 2012 were terminated on the grounds that the persons proved that the company's activities had become active, i.e. that they also fulfilled the conditions of the residence permit. If you remember, good Members, a draft law amending the Aliens Act was developed in spring 2012 together with the ministries and cooperation partners involved in this matter in order to prevent the unintended use of residence permits and prevent possible misuse. This draft was dealt with in Parliament and the Act entered into force on 1 July 2012. The aim was to reduce the risk of misuse of residence permits as a whole, as the law did not adequately regulate this area at the time. Of course, the aim was also to ensure that, on the basis of the immigration limit, residence permits are granted to those persons whose residence in Estonia is in the public interest. To this end, we supplemented the conditions for granting a temporary residence permit for work and business and gave up the issue of a residence permit in its current form, when the person had sufficient legal income. It is now 2013; almost a year has passed since these changes. We can clearly say that these changes have proved successful. The Police and Border Guard Board and the Defence Police Department may also make an expert assessment that these changes have clearly borne fruit. Several loopholes have been removed from the law, in particular regarding the misuse of the residence permit. The risks are predominantly grounded. As a result of these changes, opportunities to misuse residence permits for work and entrepreneurship have been reduced. The previous mass application for a residence permit to work as a member of the management body of the company has decreased, which was the main problem in 2011 and the application for a residence permit based on entrepreneurship. These requests have become more evaluable during ex-ante controls due to legislative changes. However, as we have discussed several times in this Chamber, follow-up is particularly important when granting a residence permit on the basis of entrepreneurship. The example of very many countries is by no means surprising if more residence permits are taken away on this basis in one year than they are issued. I think it was also important that both the government and Parliament, as legislator, were able to react quickly and effectively to possible misuse of residence permits and to prevent any future action that would not comply with the law. We must certainly continue to consider that Estonia is a Member State of the European Union and that our residence permits are attractive. We will continue to address situations where residence permits are not applied for for for purpose. The second question concerned specific persons, Alexander Kharkovskiy and Sergei Lalakin. A person named Kharkovskiy has a valid Estonian residence permit. However, on the basis of the follow-up data, there is reason to suspect that the residence permit is not being used for its intended purpose. The Police and Border Guard Board has initiated a procedure for revocation of the residence permit in respect of that person. Sergei Lalakin does not have a residence permit for Estonia and has never applied for it from the Estonian state. As far as the security side is concerned, the only way to say this is to coordinate applications for residence permits with both the Central Criminal Police and the Defence Police for the purpose of ensuring security is by the Foreign Office of the Police and Border Guard Board defining the status of the Citizenship and Migration Department. Thus, there are the filters that must be in the rule of law and this has minimized the threat to Estonia's security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U106	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U107	Let's move on to the seventh question. This is answered by Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Olga Sõtnik, a member of the Riigikogu, to introduce the inquiry to the public! The question is about regulating the consumption of an electronic cigarette and its health effects. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U108	Mr President! Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We submitted this question on 16 April, and I will now present its content. Alternative smoking products such as electronic cigarettes are gaining popularity. E-cigarette is an electronic device that can be used either in nicotine containing or in nicotine-free e-liquids. The increase in the popularity of e-cigarette consumption is largely linked to the belief that it is not as harmful to health as conventional cigarettes. In e-cigarette advertising, people who smoke are very often used and claim to be a healthy alternative to smoking, as nicotine can be inhaled without tar, tobacco and carcinogenic substances. Despite increasing its popularity, there is little evidence of the safety of electronic cigarettes. In other words, the safety of e-cigarette for human health has not been demonstrated. In the meantime, we learned that Estonian scientists have discovered that it is actually dangerous. E-cigarette smoking is also becoming more popular among young people. This is particularly worrying, as Estonia takes the lead in the proportion of young people who have tried tobacco in their early teens compared to other European countries. You can read on the web about the fact that e-cigarette is as addictive or even more addictive as a regular cigarette. Unlike regular cigarettes, e-cigarette can be smoked indoors and in most public places. It allegedly does not force people to smoke passively, and there is no unpleasant smell of smoke. E-cigarette sellers also point out that overall, the consumption of an electronic cigarette is much cheaper than smoking a regular cigarette. Neither the current tobacco law nor the EU Tobacco Products Directive regulates e-cigarette consumption. There is no doubt that regulating e-cigarette consumption will also affect its sales. As a result, there is a need to amend the tobacco law. In this regard, we have four questions to which we want answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U109	Thank you, good co-worker. I ask the Minister of Social Affairs of the Riigikogu to answer his questions!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will answer your questioning, which is absolutely topical and necessary. Answer to the first question. E-cigarettes are not covered by the current Tobacco Act or the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act, as they are not tobacco products. The product does not contain tobacco, so that the requirements for tobacco cannot be extended to e-cigarettes, inter alia, the consumption of e-cigarettes indoors and in public places is not regulated. Unfortunately, there is currently no uniform regulation of e-cigarettes in the European Union. However, with regard to developments in the area of tobacco products, e-cigarette can be called conditionally, because we believe that the purpose of using it is similar to that of using tobacco products. At the end of last year, the European Commission published a proposal to repeal and replace the Tobacco Products Directive with a new Directive. Estonia has expressed its views on this. We believe that products such as e-cigarettes or cigarettes that do not contain a tobacco plant but to which nicotine has been added should be covered by this directive. This would help fill the legal vacuum created by this very new product. The answer to the second question. We have presented Estonia's view on the new Tobacco Products Directive that the definition of tobacco products should be extended so that all products not containing tobacco are equivalent to tobacco products. I very much hope that either the current Irish Presidency or, at the very least, the next Lithuanian Presidency, which has both made the Tobacco Products Directive a priority, will be able to move forward with the details of this directive at the next Council meetings. Answer to question three. Long-term scientific studies have not yet been carried out on e-cigarette in Estonia or elsewhere in the world. In the 2009 WHO Technical Report, the results of existing studies on e-cigarette have been analysed. In summary, it has highlighted that the safety of e-cigarette has not been demonstrated and has expressed doubts that this use of nicotine is a nicotine-containing e-cigarette that can cause serious toxicological, physiological and addictive effects and should all be further investigated. In addition to nicotine, full capsules of e-cigarette also contain other chemicals, their effects on this route of administration have not been sufficiently investigated. We know that the European Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety has commissioned a study on e-cigarette. I believe that this will be a substantial and thorough study. It is not possible for us to duplicate such large-scale research as a country, or perhaps we can rely on it in the future. It is important to note that in Estonia, nicotine-containing e-cigarette is treated as a medicine and cannot be purchased from quite every place. However, in Estonia, e-cigarette uses all kinds of other capsules, which do not contain tobacco or nicotine, but other substances. In my opinion, their safety must also be investigated. Answer to question four. People have been informed of the harmful effects of tobacco use on health. In the course of the consultation and in cooperation with the press, information on the harmful effects of e-cigarette on health has been provided by tobacco and tobacco cessation counsellors and county health promotion specialists. First-level health care is playing an increasingly important role in developing and ensuring better access to advice services for quitting smoking and tobacco. Since 2005, the National Institute for Health Development organises 16-hour refresher training courses for tobacco cessation counsellors, during which more than 400 healthcare professionals specialize, 29 of which are family doctors or nurses. E-cigarette-related issues will also be addressed in all these training courses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U111	Thank you. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! As a young parent, you must also be concerned about the spread of e-cigarette among young people. We are talking more broadly about mocha tobacco and chewing tobacco and we are fighting them. Now e-cigarette has also appeared at the school. Young people claim that there are no nicotine capsules in there, and let the teachers prove otherwise. How do you recommend schools to behave in such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U113	Thank you. That's a good question. I believe that schools will be able to regulate this issue in their own Rules of Procedure. As parents, all of us also need to have the wisdom to guide our children. I'm going to raise my daughter in that spirit so she doesn't have any interest in cigarettes or e-cigarettes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U114	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Good colleagues, is there a desire to negotiate? Right now you can press the "Speech" key. No calls, no negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U115	Let's move on to the next question. The Social Minister, Taavi Rõivas, will answer the question. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Marika Tuus-Lauli, to introduce the inquiry to the public! The inquiry was submitted on 23 April and concerns the inadequacy of income support. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U116	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, 12 members of the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry in April on the limits of coping and difficulties in coping. The income limit last changed for us in 2011. Compared to this time in January 2011, the consumer price index has increased by 9.3%, including food expenditure alone has increased by 10.5%. The income limit this year, I say this as a reminder, is 76.70 euros per month for a person living alone or for the first member of the family and 61.36 euros per month for the second and subsequent members of the family. The cost of the minimum basket published by Statistics Estonia was EUR 85,10 in 2011 and EUR 88,34 in 2012. Let's say that the limit of living has been lower for years than the minimum cost of a basket of food. At the same time, the level of subsistence is set on the basis of minimum consumption costs, but we are also talking about clothing, footwear and other things, which is also essential, but which does not fit into this amount. We've heard that the government coalition wants to raise the limit next year. We can see that, given inflation, the cost of the basket is still higher than the minimum subsidy. So there's nothing good to hope for. Of course, the whole issue is still poverty. We want answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U117	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Social Affairs of the Riigikogu to answer the question, which bears the number 325. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer your question. Answer to the first question. It is true that during the preparation of the 2014 state budget, I have put forward a proposal to increase the subsistence limit. It is also true that we have proposed to raise it to EUR 90. However, we are ready to review it in the light of new forecasts, because I agree with the starting point that the limit of living should be covered and should cover the minimum cost of a basket. I will also answer question 2. However, we must take into account that the minimum food basket is the estimated size, the cost of which is calculated on the basis of the dietary recommendations of the Estonian Nutrition Science Society and the model food basket drawn up on their basis. We must also take into account that we do have subsidies that do not count as income when calculating the income limit, for example, this part of child benefit, which is 'need-to-need'. It cannot always be assumed that the only income of the family is income support. That's just what I said in the background. Generally speaking, I fully agree with the emphasis of the heirs, or else I would not have proposed to raise the limit of living. In the third question, it is claimed that the limit of EUR 90 has already been reached before the introduction. I cannot agree with that. The limit of exposure would increase by 17% compared to today. On the basis of the latest data that we can now take into account, this EUR 90 would cover the minimum cost of a food basket, but if we have more recent forecasts to use in the course of making the state budget in the autumn, we are certainly prepared to use them. It is important to stress that the current proposal to raise the subsistence limit to EUR 90 reduces the number of households living in absolute poverty by about 28%. This will help 10,000 households out of absolute poverty. This is extremely much, and that is one of the reasons why I have proposed it. I'll answer question four. You want to know how I feel about the idea of indexing the limit of living with the consumer price index. We have analysed and considered this, but we have found that this must remain Parliament's decision in the future. Both the possibilities of the state and the real need must always be taken into account. I rather think that raising 17% of what I have offered is certainly more beneficial than raising the consumer price index, for example, which would be about five times smaller. I believe that this kind of increase is in the interests of those whose income is below the subsistence threshold. Question 5: "Why is child benefit from the first and second children included in income support? ' As you well know, this is a very old subject. There has been a great deal of debate about this in this House. You know as well as I do why such a result has been achieved. However, I am very pleased that when applying for needs-based child benefit in less than a month's time, parents know that the need-based part of child benefit intended specifically for those who need it does not count towards the level of subsistence. The Ministry of Social Affairs also supports the proposal made in the Riigikogu that all recipients of income support who have children in the family automatically receive additional, needs-based child support. In fact, we can say that if we are able to raise the subsistence limit, in the case of the current regulation, at least in those families where there are difficulties in coping, but where there are children too, the income will certainly exceed what is necessary to ensure that each member of the family has a minimum basket of food and that utility payments can be paid nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U119	Good Minister, there are questions for you. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U120	Thank you. The need-based child benefit is not the right child benefit; it is poverty support. People in social services have to beg for this support. It's pretty humiliating for families. But you said that for years there has been a problem that the first and second children's support is included in the calculation of income support. Why is that, though? We discussed last autumn when needs-based child support was created so that we could take it out of that calculation. In the meantime, there was hope that it would stay out of there, but it still didn't. Then why can't we do it? That sounds awkward.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U121	Thank you. First of all, I don't agree with you at all if you iron about need-based child support. This is very important and necessary support for those families that are going to receive this support at a much higher rate than today. Applying for it is not very different from applying for income support, it has to be done every three months. I have been through this trial environment step by step, and I dare say that there is certainly nothing humiliating or rude about people in this process. Once again, this additional support is very much needed for these families, and it clearly contributes to making it possible for Estonia to have even fewer children living in poverty. I think this is a very important step. It is therefore very important that the part of child benefit received by families most in need is not taken into account when determining income support. I think the decisions that have been made are very correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U122	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm sure there's quite a few people who believe your very convincing story. Nine euros are certainly good support in the same way, but the question is whether nine euros can get someone out of poverty. The sums that families would need in a particularly difficult situation are much higher. But I have a question about the coming summer. Surely it is not unknown to you that very many children have the only warm food available at school for lunch days. Very many non-profit organisations have approached the Gambling Tax Board with requests to receive support for setting up summer soup kitchens for children. How does the Ministry intend to solve this problem in the coming summer so that hot food is systematically and everywhere guaranteed for children?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U124	Thank you. I would point out that this issue is not the subject of an inquiry, but we will certainly be dealing with it as well. Your question concerned needs-based child support. You may even know that it is growing in two sections and that it is still increasing to more than EUR 36 for the first and second children and to more than EUR 95 for the third child. These are significantly higher subsidies than they are currently in force. If we see that they are going to work well, I do not rule out that in the future, even more needs-based social benefits could be made available in order to always channel the taxpayer's limited resources to those families who need this taxpayer's support the most. I think that the gradual doubling of child support is a huge additional support for these families. Once again, I ask you not to ridicule this in any way, because the people who need this support consider it very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U125	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U126	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. No one here is gonna laugh at this. It's too serious. But I've also spoken to the people of the country. This need-based support is embarrassing, and no one is so eager to register and apply for it. It's unworthy! You're the Minister of the Government Coalition. Tell me, please, why must we discuss poverty in Estonia on our 22nd anniversary of independence? Why has your policy not been able to offer the people of Estonia a better life?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U127	Thank you. If it were your party's government, it would probably be much more topical. But let's talk basically. Maybe the labelling you're offering here under the debate isn't the right one. In fact, Estonia has seen an annual improvement in relative poverty indicators. Children's relative poverty is lower than it has been in the last 12 years, for which we have comparable data. However, as long as we have a single child whose family is struggling to cope, this is a problem for the country. However, the claim that this proportion is in some way very high in Estonia is not true at all. Relative poverty exists in every society. The greater the well-being of society, the higher the limit of relative poverty will be. Relative poverty, as you well know, is a proportion or a percentage of the median income of society. The higher the median income, the higher the limit. It doesn't go to zero for any combination of incomes. However, we can help to reduce relative poverty in Estonian society even more and faster than it has done now. I stress that it has decreased very quickly. One of the measures that helps families with children most against poverty is that we are directing additional child support to those families with either coping difficulties or more children. I think that this is a very right and justified direction and will help to significantly improve the management of families with Estonian children.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U128	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I open negotiations and ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr Minister and Members of the People's Party! No matter how Taavi Kõivas tries to justify a small income support that does not even cover the minimum cost of a food basket, let alone the cost of clothes, shoes, medicines, essential goods and glasses, dental visits and other essentials, this small support shows that something has been very wrong with our social policy, at the level of our social thinking, for years. For years, the coalition has been afraid of using the word 'poverty', as if we didn't. We couldn't be proud of a country like this, but with this slogan, the Reform Party wants to go to the autumn elections. At the same time, it was heartbreaking to read in the newspapers on Children's Protection Day, how children already eat other portions at school, and one child described how it is difficult for him to fall asleep at night, and he closes the window so that he does not smell food coming from a neighboring apartment. This is the actual situation. These children are left behind at school; they cannot go on a tour or in hobby circles; smaller parents cannot put them in a kindergarten because there is no money for it. At the same time, the income support granted to families is so low that it is not enough for food. Just a few days ago, Statistics Estonia once again published child poverty indicators. We learned that one in six children lives in relative poverty in Estonia. In 2011, the last year for which data are available, 41700 children, or 17% of all under 18-year-olds, lived in relative poverty. Every 11th child lives in absolute poverty, or deep material deprivation. There are 23,000, or almost 9.5% of all under 18-year-olds. The limit of absolute poverty is a minimum of living, that is, food and housing needed to survive. The health and coping of these 23,000 children living in absolute poverty are already at direct risk. Clearly, child poverty is the face of parents, and their parents live in poverty because they live in poor families. When we look at the latest data, we see that whole families live in inhumane conditions, live in ten square meters, cold, unwashable uberies, and suffer all the time from empty stomachs. Parents often work in many places. Many children's parents have gone to Finland or elsewhere to work, great-grandmothers and grandmothers from their small pension try to feed and raise these children. Emigration, as we know, doubled last year. Are these people still going abroad looking for happiness, as loved to talk about the previous Social Minister? How can we be proud of such a country? According to the Rescue Army, the number of people in need in Estonia has doubled compared to the time before the economic crisis. Never has food been imported as much as it is now. More than a quarter of families live in poverty. Even the number of working poor people earning average wages has increased, unable to pay rent for their salary or to pay for utilities. For years, the Centre Party has stood up to alleviate the situation of families living in poverty. So far, all reasonable proposals, such as the free school lunch offer for middle school students, are not mentioned. This is because the state does not have enough money. Let us consider, then, that money is not about supporting children and families who are struggling to cope. At the same time, we have money for European support programmes for Greece and Cyprus. We're making an incredible contribution to national defence. There are currently only four countries left in NATO that contribute more than 2% of GDP to military defence. These are the United States, Great Britain, Greece and Estonia. However, the question remains as to why the first and second children's allowance is included in the income for this small amount of income support. I mean, that's totally embarrassing. We have received only demagogic answers to this issue from different ministers for ten years in a row. Even these poor child benefits are being cut. The poorest people who live in income support are deprived of their child benefit and the wealthiest also receive child benefit in addition to their salary. Let's remind you of pensions. The purchasing power of pensions has declined steadily in recent years. The pension has risen less for several years than we could have raised according to the index. However, according to Statistics Estonia, the real pension, or the purchasing power of pensions, has been steadily declining due to price increases, especially in the year when pensions were frozen. But, as we all know, in terms of price increases, we are European champions. The European Parliament has recently adopted a resolution to increase pensions for the Member States. In fact, the European Parliament deplores the fact that, in countries that have made major cuts during the economic crisis, we know that Estonia was the first-slasher and that pensioners have been exposed to poverty or the risk of poverty, the living conditions are no longer guaranteed. With regard to pensions, if income support cannot reach even the minimum cost of a food basket. I dare say you can't be proud of a country like that. The Minister stressed that the Centre Party would not do better if it were in power. Yes, I would. The Centre Party is a party with social thinking and reducing poverty is our priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U130	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U131	Let's move on to the next question. This is answered by Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. I ask for a presentation by Peter Võsa, representative of the Speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, to introduce the inquiry!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U132	Mr. President! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the aid and rehabilitation facilities is to help people with reduced mobility, the elderly and those temporarily in need of aid due to the disease. The tools support self-sufficiency in mobility and domestic activities; they help care. The largest company in Estonia to borrow and sell aids is Invaru. The company offers preferential lending and sales using the resources allocated from the state budget. Unfortunately, the amount allocated by the state is not enough, and budget resources are running out in many municipalities already in the first half of the year. Many needy people and their loved ones are appalled by the announcement that they will have to pay a full price for the loan of relief and rehabilitation equipment in the future. Tallinn was to allocate an additional EUR 84000 in April this year due to the state's underfunding. It is therefore clear that Invaru can help those in need in Tallinn on favorable terms for only three more months. The benefit for bed-borrowers is guaranteed until the end of 2013. However, not all municipalities are able to obtain additional funding from their budgets to carry out their tasks. For example, all discounts have already been suspended in Tartu in the first quarter of this year, and in Jõgeva County and Viljandi County, the preferential lending works only in coordination with the centre. The problem of financing aid and rehabilitation funds has been up for several years. Aids have become more high-quality and expensive. People's awareness of the possibility of obtaining an advantage has increased, but public support has not increased. In real life, the demand for aid and rehabilitation funds is much higher than the financial cover for the benefits. The problem forces local authorities to find additional resources from their budgets. As a result, it is clear that it is extremely important to reach comprehensive solutions because it is not clear whether or not in the future all those in need will receive a discount. In this regard, we have four questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U133	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Social Affairs of the Riigikogu to answer his questions!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer your questions. Question 1: 'Why has State support not increased according to additional needs? ' Can't say it hasn't grown. While in 2012 the basic budget was exceptionally increased by an additional 1 million and in 2013 the budget increase is 409000 euros, or 7%, compared to 2012, it has rather increased. But the truth is, growth could always be faster. If you have any suggestions, they are certainly welcome. The Ministry of Social Affairs has also applied for an increase in the 2014 budget compared to 2013. However, I do think it is appropriate to add that it is likely that already this Thursday the government will be discussing very significant changes in the principles of disability insurance. As a result, we are likely to have a very large additional source to improve the availability of tools for people of working age, and this in turn will significantly reduce their availability to children and older people. I am putting very high expectations on this reform. I very much hope that, when this reform arrives in this Chamber as drafts, all those who have asked questions about these issues and very rightly that they have submitted The second question: 'How should the local authority cope in a situation where public funding is insufficient? ' I would point out that the loan and sale of aid funds are managed by county governments and the Social Security Office in Tallinn, which has been entrusted by Harju County Government with these tasks by contract. Perhaps all the money provided by county governments or municipalities for the sale and lending of aid instruments is allocated from the state budget. It is not quite appropriate to claim that Tallinn has allocated an additional EUR 84000 to Invaru OÜ in order to continue the sale of aids, in the context that Tallinn has contributed this money independently, taking it from the pockets of Tallinn's taxpayers. This is exactly the same as the state budget money that was allocated to Tallinn for this purpose and was asked to be used. So this, too, is a purely state budget allocation. Question 3: 'How and when will a comprehensive solution to the problem of lending and selling aid and rehabilitation facilities on preferential terms be reached in cooperation with rural governments on the issue of adequate funding? ' Here the answer is very simple. We wish to centralise the organisation of aids under the Social Insurance Board. This means that we can organise the service better and more efficiently, we no longer have a number of queues across Estonia, but as a country, we can conclude one contract with the service providers, one for each service provider, and we can count more flexibly on the extra money, because the overview is considerably better and more extensive for the country. There is also a situation where there is a queue for aid in one county, while in other counties the same funds are still well available. It is not in my opinion as large or, rather, in a small country as Estonia does. These are the plans we're working on. They have also been introduced to rural elders and work is ongoing to change this somewhat illogical situation. Question 4: How can people with mobility be offered equal opportunities to all if the state is unable to support their daily livelihood? ' First of all, we want to ensure that people with disabilities can cope equally with everyone, including those with disabilities who are active in the labour market. We have developed very fundamental innovations and planned over EUR 200 million for this in seven years. A large number of people who can use these activating measures have reduced mobility. The state also compensated nearly 12000 people with reduced mobility for aids last year. This amount amounted to EUR 1.6 million. A number of other sources are added, as an example, to support the acquisition of sports equipment. These instruments are not intended to be 'business as usual' but are specialised. This support is, in my opinion, just as important. For people with reduced mobility, if they can do so, the opportunity to exercise is certainly necessary. It should be much more supported than it is today. If we have so far tried to support these competitions as far as the state budget is concerned, I believe that special aid instruments could also be put much more emphasis on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U135	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? It is. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! After all, it is a great thing that you are developing innovations and measures for millions of euros and that you support competitions. But I find it totally unacceptable for someone to wait in line to get a wheelchair or a crutch. Insaru is a company with a high ethical standard, which I believe has worked for 20 years, if not more. They know quite precisely what the need for aids is. They can't sell more than people need because a healthy person doesn't buy crutches or wheelchairs. It argues that they are not chronically allocated the amounts which they consider necessary. What's this about? Why, though, are they not believed, and why are Invara not allocated the amounts they seek?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U137	Thank you. One historical reason has been that, despite exceptional additional allocations, demand has been higher than the possibilities of the state budget. But at least as big a reason, according to experts, we have 16 different order of aids in Estonia, one in each county and one in Tallinn, because, as I said, Harju County has delegated this task and money to the city of Tallinn in Tallinn. This, in turn, creates a situation where there may be a queue for the instrument in some regions, but in a neighbouring county or even in a neighbouring municipality, when it comes to border municipalities, the same tool may be very well available several months later. This is, in my opinion, an illogical situation. We are in the Ministry of Social Affairs in the process of developing changes that will end these several queues and create a single centralised system, which has also received very positive feedback from the House of People with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U138	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U139	Thank you. Dear Minister, Can you explain to me how this system works? Is a company like Invaru holding aids somewhere in the county, holding these piles in a warehouse, and not delivering them to another county? How is this possible today, in the 21st century?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U140	This is not so much about aids, but about funds. This order is held in 16 places, instead of keeping one list of the use of the service throughout Estonia. If a specific resource is underplanned in some counties, there may be a situation where the funds run out in that county, while it is possible to obtain it in other counties. I do not consider the holding of 16 systems in a country the size of Estonia and the regional creation of such injustices to be right and I wish to change it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U141	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U142	Thank you. The problems with aids and rehabilitation are years old. You said it was a money problem on the one hand, but then again you said it was a multi-order problem. You have now figured out how to solve this problem. At the same time, the Reform Party has held the portfolio of the Minister of Social Affairs for eight years or more. Couldn't you have helped with these things before? You mentioned that euro money is coming. How can this system be made sustainable, because there will be no euro money forever? How are we going to finance this in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U143	Thank you. In these eight years, when we start counting years from today, the term of office of a middle party minister will also last several years. However, I am absolutely certain that all ministers, regardless of their political affiliation, have done their utmost to make changes to the system of aid for persons with disabilities, depending on the possibilities of the state budget. For example, the previous Minister for Social Affairs prepared maximum reimbursement rates for aid instruments, which improve access to aid instruments. However, as I emphasised, in 2012, despite the relatively limited possibilities available for the 2012 budget, an exceptional additional EUR 1 million was found to be available in this area. I believe that, regardless of political affiliation, all ministers have considered this matter to be important. My plan to solve the problem is not only to rely on the budget request that I have put forward and for which I will certainly intend to stand, but also to contribute to ensuring that the system is even across the country, and to reducing queues. I also have very high expectations, perhaps it would be even more accurate to say that plans, with a capacity-to-work insurance, where it would be possible to invest much higher amounts each year in aid instruments than it has done so far. This directly affects those of working age who need help, but because we invest in people of working age and their aids through active labour market measures, the availability of aids will, of course, also improve for children and older people. I think the plans that we have in this area are, in any case, correct. It is worth the effort to make sure they succeed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U144	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U145	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You mentioned that the money that came in 2012 was one million. We know what the demand is. Specify how much money is needed so that we no longer have to make such inquiries to the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U146	Thank you. According to the work of the Ministry of Social Affairs, this need could exceed EUR 7 million each year. It has been between EUR 5.8 million and EUR 6.4 million in 2012 and 2013 together with the additional money, but could be between EUR 7 million and EUR 8 million. Unfortunately, from year to year, this need will increase rather than decrease. I think that if we plan the budget for next year, it will be between EUR 7 million and EUR 8 million. To that end, we will certainly be applying for additional resources. However, I would like to stress once again that, if we are able, perhaps not from 2014, but from 2015 or 2016, we should also contribute the resources of active labour market measures to buy these same tools, for example, wheelchairs, this should significantly ease the burden on this particular budget line. But our aim is not only that a specific budget line has as much money as possible, but that the need is covered across Estonia. I think it is important to people that they get the tools they need, not that they get the money from this particular line.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U147	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate, so we won't open them either. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-03_U148	Good fellows, our hearing is moving forward. Anyone who wishes to perform during the free microphone, please register after the hammer hit! Since there are no calls, no free microphone will be opened. I wish you strength in your work! Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 6.34 p.m.
