ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the second working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Mr Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board for granting grants from the gambling tax. On 21 January, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided today to initiate the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board for granting grants from the Gambling Tax. On 10 January this year, the Minister of Culture proposed to the Committee on Finance that Mr Siim Sukles be removed from the Council's membership of the Gambling Tax and appoint Chancellor Paavo Nõgene as the new representative of the Ministry of Culture at the Council. That is why the Committee on Monetary Affairs made its decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U3	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I have the honour to address an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. An inquiry is about protecting domestic consumers. On 1 January of this year, the electricity market opened up completely in Estonia. So far, it has been served to consumers as an inevitable result of the accession to the European Union. However, studies show that in a large number of EU Member States, domestic consumers buy electricity at regulated prices. As of 1 January 2012, domestic consumers used regulated prices in 14 Member States. Estonia was also able to fix a fixed price for electricity for domestic consumers, especially for those who suffer from poverty and for whom the increase in electricity prices is particularly important. Article 3 (7) of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in electricity clearly states that Member States shall take measures to ensure the necessary supply of electricity to vulnerable customers in order to address the issues of energy poverty identified, including in the wider context of poverty. This can be done through national energy plans, by improving energy efficiency and by providing incentives in the social security system. While there is an open electricity market in many countries, domestic consumers are treated as vulnerable consumers in these countries, price regulation is in place which allows low-income consumers to sell a certain amount of electricity at lower tariffs. We have four questions for the Minister on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U5	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U6	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of eight members of the Riigikogu, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. This time, we're asking questions about the salaries of police officers. Who has said that questioning must necessarily be critical? We're giving the Minister a chance to praise himself. Last November, he spoke about an additional EUR 7 million being allocated to the increase in the salaries of police workers, and this will increase by 9.6%. By the time he comes to the hall to answer, January will be over, the first salaries will be paid and the minister will be able to praise himself, talking about how much the pay of police workers has increased. Well, we hope to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted one draft decision and two inquiries. If the draft decision complies with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide that it will be accepted within three working days. If inquiries comply with this law, I shall immediately forward them to the addressee. Now some messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure of the Social Democratic Party faction. a draft law on the amendment of the Social Welfare Act and related laws, launched on 17 January, and appointed the Social Affairs Committee as the commission. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a The following drafts were submitted to the Committee on European Union Affairs on 17 January. Firstly, a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 1 January 2010 at 4 p.m. Secondly, a draft recommendation from the Council of the European Union on the creation of a Youth Guarantee. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Social Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft recommendation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 1 January 2010 at 4 p.m. I have forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Culture Rein Lang and to Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U8	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! I remember ministers had to answer 21 inquiries on Monday last week (the agenda was so planned), but today there are no requests for information. Why does the Board of the Riigikogu not use its competence or distribute enquiries in a more reasonable way? Why aren't there any ministers today answering questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U9	Thank you very much for this good proposal. But I would also ask the political groups to submit their questions more evenly. If inquiries are submitted in whole packages, they can also be answered in exactly the same way as a whole package. So, ladies and gentlemen, I will put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! (meeting of 65 members of the Riigikogu), 12 votes against and 6 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U10	Since there is no questioning on the agenda today, please register for an appearance in a free microphone after my hammer strike. Oh, that's great! Please! Starts with colleague Yana Toom.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U11	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, It just happened that I had a finger on the button. I want to talk about what I talked about in the media on Friday and this morning. In fact, statistics from Statistics Estonia and the results of the census. We all found out, as a surprise, that more people left Estonia last year than they migrated here. The losses were statistically over 6,000 people. I was rather impressed by the fact that 33% of women who belong to the age group for 15 to 19 years have left Estonia. This means that in the future we will have no baby boom or anything near it. I started thinking about it on Friday when I was asked for a comment. I have to admit that, as Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, I was very concerned on the one hand, but on the other, I realized that there was nothing surprising here. A year and a half ago, we discussed the problem of the lack of family doctors in the country and tried to find some financial means to attract family doctors to the country. Then came the gray-headed doctor Peter Mardna, who said very clearly that no young woman with higher education would go to live anywhere in the woods because, first, she would not be able to marry there; second, there would be no school; third, there would be no post office or cultural house there. That is the result. So, in fact, migration takes place within Estonia, we know that very well. Just last week or the week before, there was some funny news in the media that if you want to get married, you should drive to or into this, because there are a lot more men there than women. What am I saying? Our demographic situation is out of hand, but somehow there is no institution in our country to deal with it. We once had a minister for the population, but then our government does not need this minister or such a policy. The result is what we're all 'Enjoying' right now. People are leaving. This is not perhaps two Estonias anymore, but three, or I don't even know how many Estonias. I have often remembered in recent days how our Prime Minister spoke very strongly in Question Time on Wednesday that Estonia's wealth is growing. But if wealth grows somewhere, it will be completely unclear why the citizens of this country are leaving. Moreover, me and I believe that you also have acquaintances who actually live and work abroad, but this is not reflected in statistics, because it is simply not announced. So you can imagine that the data we read in the media is not adequate and the actual situation is even sadder. I think it is high time to take political responsibility and make certain decisions. One could discuss, for example, that if we have enough money or political will to allocate 2% of GDP to defence expenditure, a certain percentage of GDP could also go to family support. I don't know if it could be 2% or 3%, but in any case not 0.7%, as it is now. Because when women go away, it means we don't have children. This means, however, that we have no certainty. We can talk as much as we want parental benefits to be one of the great things, that's one of the great things, but it doesn't keep the people of Estonia at home. I would not want to feel like a bankrupt company in Estonia, from which young people and talent go away and where only pensioners and children will be present. Unfortunately, the situation is that if we don't think about population policy now, we won't be needed in ten years' time either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U12	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U13	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, who are concerned about Estonia's future! Is there not too much wrong in our lives, in our modern way of life and in government and, worst of all, in the attitude of the ruling statesmen to the people? I am becoming more and more concerned with the feeling that the government and president of the country are communicating with the public as some less-thinking, light-sleeping amorphic mass whose beliefs can be made exactly as needed by the media. The new scandal related to the long story of the VEB Foundation, during which a document signed by Vahur Kraft, the bank manager of his time, was found in the archives of Eesti Pank, which deliberately misrepresents the bank of a neighbouring country, makes us think again about the honesty and sincerity of the Estonian state. In the "State of the state' broadcast, the programme leaders tried to give the VEB Fund the direction that the state bank did more or less correctly, because they tried to outsmart the Russian monetary communities and that is why false information was presented. But let me ask you, ladies and gentlemen, can a serious state bank be deliberately miswritten and posted? In Estonian terms it fits! Where is the guarantee that it was only done once? Radio Kuku's Contemporary Class expressed the view that both Vahur Kraft and Siim Kallas lie when they say that they know nothing about the fate of 32 million dollars. On the basis of Eesti Pank's certificate and documents from the Russian Federation, 32 million dollars were paid to a company owned by a Russian citizen, Aleksandr Matti. Does the current CEO of a commercial bank not remember such an important signature? It is unknown how this amount was distributed, as well as whether and how money was distributed to counterfeiters in Eesti Pank. Can we believe the high-ranking Euro official, Siim Kallas, who, on the national news show, confirmed that the VEB Foundation's story went past him? Hard to believe. After all, Kallas had only run Eesti Pank a few weeks before Kraft. Does it make sense that Kraft signed such an important signature without consulting Kallas? That's unlikely. The VEB Fund was managed by Enn Teimann, a favourite of Siim Kallas in Eesti Pank. During the formation of the Reform Party and the Fatherland government, Siim Kallas traded to Teimmann about the Minister of the Interior. This is written by Kalle Muuli in his book The Back Room of Isamaa. Did Kallas build and man a new fund without knowing about Kraft's letter to Russia? A thoughtless person doesn't believe that. This long list of lies could continue. Last week, journalist Toomas Tenl, who has studied the affair of the VEB Foundation in depth, in Tallinn Television, said a very painful truth about the Estonian state. This thought was as follows, quoting from memory. In two decades, the Heads of State have viewed us, i.e. the people of Estonia, as being morons who, as if, cannot understand or think for themselves. Now, after opening the archives of the State Bank, it turns out that the situation is exactly the opposite. We are led by low - minded false, dishonest, and selfish high officials. That's about what it sounded like on Tallinn Television. Now I have a question for the President of the Republic: where are you? In the case of much smaller scandals, you have come and played live national broadcasting. Where are you now, when the reputation of the Estonian state and of the state bank is seriously threatened? But now Kadriorg is silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U14	Thank you. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U15	Madam President! Good listeners and TV viewers! Today, I'm going to tell you about the benefits of alcohol. When I was in college, the wise professor of pharmacology said that 20 grams of absolute alcohol is useful because it is the cheapest and most harmless sedative, takes off the nervous tension, lowers a little blood pressure and is good for the heart and blood vessels. 20 grams of absolute alcohol is about a lace of vodka. But not more than that! That's what we students believed, went straight to the beer from the pharmacology lecture, and tried it out. The consequences, of course, were terrible. The same mistake is made by the Estonian people all the time, and it is still exaggerated by the vino. This poses major problems for society. Every year, up to 700 people die from alcohol consumption in Estonia. These are deaths directly related to alcohol consumption: alcohol poisonings, severe traumas when drunkenly jumped off somewhere, hit by a train or a car. There are also diseases that are indirectly caused by alcohol. Up to 10,000 people die from them every year. So the war is open in Estonia and there are very many casualties. It's causing quite a lot of problems for society. But I'm still telling you the benefits of alcohol. Alcohol brings in the state, earns income from alcohol, excise duties on alcohol, value added tax, etc. Such a magical figure is known, 12 liters of absolute alcohol per person per year. If consumption is below this level, alcohol can generate some kind of revenue to the State in the form of excise duty, if this figure is 12 or more (so the experts claim worldwide), then there is nothing more to compensate for the damage caused by alcohol. These losses have disappeared in terms of human lives, health care costs, road accidents, direct economic damage, jobs lost, etc. Luckily, we still have less than 11 liters of this consumption. So we have room for improvement, which means that the sale of alcohol will generate some other benefits for society. Alcohol is one of the cheapest organic solvents, the production of which is extremely simple and very cheap. In addition, an excise duty, which represents a large proportion of the price of the alcohol sold, has been introduced. The point of the excise duty is to compensate for the damage that alcohol causes to society. Now we're talking about health care. In our health care system, there is a constant lack of money. People can't heal their teeth, we have huge long lines for doctors. I need more money. For example, when a person goes to an emergency department with sore throats, he doesn't know what his illness is, does he have a problem with it? He wants a consultation from an ear-nose-throat doctor. However, not only will a visit fee be charged for this, but also a fee of EUR 30 to 40. A person has to wait several hours in that department because another drunk driver has been scraped off the pavement and is being patched up by surgeons. In fact, if a drunk drives his car, and the insurance doesn't pay for it, but if he crashes into his skull, it'll somehow be treated at the expense of all of us. In fact, a person who consumes alcohol has paid for it all in advance. He's been paying alcohol duty. This excise duty is not paid at a low level, but at over EUR 300 million per year. If only 20% of it was directed directly to health care, health care would have money, alcohol duty would have found reasonable use, and there would also be a point that if a person bought a bottle of vodka, he would pay for vodka, but he would also pay VAT and excise duty. But as long as this excise goes somewhere in the black hole, away from us and from health care, we're gonna suffer all these consequences, and this alcohol won't do us any good. Let's not drink!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U16	Thank you. Please, Mr Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U17	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, For starters, I'll tell you some good news, which is pretty old today. Nearly three years ago, Elektrirail announced that it declared the winner of the procurement of 18 electric trains and 10 diesel trains by the Swiss company Stadler Bussnang AG. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, then said that new electric trains should be welcomed especially by the residents of Saue, Keila, Paldiski, Pääsküla, Aegviidu, Nõmme and other regions, who will be able to work quickly and safely and travel to school in a few years' time. 'This procurement and new trains are the first considerable step in twenty years, when there has been a greater turn in public transport,' added Parts. A year later, on the website 'European Union grants in Estonia' it was written that Estonia's passenger transport is revolutionary in 2013. Once the buses have gotten more comfortable, the Elektrirail buys 18 new trains at a time and replaces all the old ones. After a while, the news portal for national broadcasting announced that new passenger trains would arrive in Estonia in the coming year. At the end of last year, the first passenger trains arrived in Estonia, FLIRT, made in Stadler. Then suddenly, problems came up that many people who are involved in the railroad are talking about. Wouldn't it have been necessary to upgrade the infrastructure before the new rolling stock was put in service or at least in parallel? It's clear that a lot has been done and is going on, but is that enough? Have European trains been set up to meet the operational requirements of the European Union? Which of them should have been completed before the trains arrived, and what requirements do we have some time to meet? Is the safety of train running ensured? This issue is particularly important in relation to the planned increase in train speed, as the Republic of Estonia has a large number of single level level crossings on its roads, and the number of trains and vehicles collisions is quite high according to statistics. Do the structures involved in train running have all the necessary equipment and personnel needed to maintain, maintain and operate the rolling stock? In the course of discussions on the construction of Rail Baltic, of course, has not the plans for the development of internal Estonian railways shifted to the background, which is no less important? Estonia is an important producer and exporter of electricity, but unfortunately there is no mention of the development of the electric railway. The new trains coming to Estonia are completely different. God forbid that this happens, but if there is an accident, these trains cannot be pushed aside, they need either parallel roads or there must be a road next to the railroad, where a technique can be brought to the side with which derailed wagons can be set aside. These are entirely different trains, and the attitude should also be completely different. The people who are currently working on safety on the Estonian railways on both Electric and South-West Railways are very concerned. They're afraid that if there's an accident, you can't save the situation in a few hours, maybe not in a few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U18	Thank you. Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U19	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's a good idea to catch a previous eater on warm food, to put it metaphorically. As far as rail traffic is concerned, while living in the immediate vicinity of the railway, I have observed in recent months the work of very intensive railway vehicles from the Czech Republic on our railway lines, in particular in the direction of the Vasalemma-Riispere and Keila-Paldiski. This means that the Estonian state has found quite considerable sums of money somewhere in order to reconstruct the railways. True, I remember that some time ago the main problem was that we did not have any money to develop the infrastructure. Right now, somebody must have dug up a gold bag somewhere with the arrival of new trains. It must be acknowledged that it is nice to watch electricity poles be replaced and that today's electric trains are indeed going much faster. However, the previous speaker was certainly right to raise the problems. I wanted to talk about the fact that, being a careful listener to the thoughts of the government coalition, I have realised that the Estonian state is an institution that does not carry out entrepreneurship. It is not reasonable for the state to engage in entrepreneurship, it is said to be the property of private companies. When I get back to the beginning with my mind, I can say that the company, which belongs to the state and is as if owned by the state, is, as if, the whole citizen's. When we talk about how Eesti Energia deals with entrepreneurship, the Lord's sun would go before it was set, until we could pick up all the strangests that make the eyebrows. We all know that one of the most serious messages of recent times that has been sent to society through the Estonian Express is that Eesti Energia has a real risk of losing an investment of 100 million euros made to the United States for oil shale oil production. Well, the funny thing is that it's not like the state doesn't do business, but accidentally, the amount of money invested in entrepreneurship, which now tends to be misinvested, is that the government coalition has not come up with an adequate response as to how such a thing could have happened. Very many oil shale specialists, including our good colleague and former party partner Lembit Kaljuvee, have said that oil shale chemistry is undoubtedly one of the best developed technologies in the world in Estonia. We know a great deal about oil shale, and we would be able to wave with this know-how anywhere in the world. It is incomprehensible how it could have happened that an oil shale state such as we are, where oil shale technology is known, which is what is secreted there, also in the possession of Eesti Energia, is collapsing such a bucket. When we return to the beginning, the question arises again about what is happening on the energy market, which is currently harassing the people of Estonia. We are honest, Estonia's competitiveness is deteriorating because the population needs to ease the purse more. If companies that are still relatively small (Estonian companies have an average of nine employees) have to pay a higher price for electricity than the northern neighbours, then something is disastrously wrong somewhere. Of course, there is something good that must be seen in all bad things. All these startling circumstances in the field of energy have led us to realise that, dear oil shale energy, we are not going to build another furnace. The fact that we can brake at least something at the right time is genuinely pleased. I think the Ministry of Economic Affairs should be broken in two. The Minister of Economic Affairs could choose what suits him and give half to someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U20	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As a member of the Riigikogu elected from Jõgeva- and Tartu County, I always face the question of why the free return of pensions has been abolished since 2009. I recall that the debates were very heated in the Riigikogu at the time. The faction of the Centre Party and the People's Union were the ones who really fought against it. So, the free return of pensions ended. More specifically, the state started to support free home delivery to only a very few pensioners, only in exceptional cases and when a reasoned request had been made to the pension institution. Priority was given to moving the pension home to deep-disabled disability pensioners and permanently disabled old-age pensions whose pension did not exceed the national pension rate. The rest of the elderly had to go to the post office or post office to get their money, of course, if it still existed. At that time, dissatisfaction became so great that the coalition decided to make free home delivery available to the old people living in scattered areas. But this was also a partial solution, because it allowed an additional 18,000 people to return their pension home, all over Estonia. The rest of us kept the problem. If the Social Insurance Board finds that an old person who wishes to receive a pension at home is still too timid, he or she will have to pay for the return himself. Estonian Post decided in its day that it would charge 60 kroons per month for returning home, which made a total of 720 kroons a year. It's still quite a lot of money. Today, prices have risen strongly compared to the first quarter of 2009, from that time until now almost 13%. Prices also increased this year, so that, from 1 January 2013, bringing the pension home started to cost EUR 4.88 instead of the current EUR 4.60. If we look at how small pensions are in our country, they are one of the smallest in the European Union, you can essentially call it a reduction in pensions. At the same time, we know that in many rural areas there are no ATMs, no payment machines, no post offices, no cash collections, and, in order to make transactions, a person has to travel to a large centre. Nor is there a proper public transport connection in the country; scheduled bus traffic is more than poor. Thus, the home delivery of pensions cannot be considered simply a comfort service. Under winter conditions, it may not be possible for an elderly person to move from home. This is primarily a rural problem, but not just a problem. There are many pensioners who are not bedridden, but who somehow cannot walk enough to possibly reach home gate because winter is slippery. They can't handle it. After all, pensioners may not be able to handle ATMs either. But I repeat, the painting is few of these automatics. Of course, it's not safe to go home with a little money. We've heard of a lot of cases of old people being kidnapped. It seems particularly ignorant to suggest that you transfer money to your neighbor's wife or someone else's account. Then who wants to trust their money to the other guy? Unfortunately, many did so because there was no other option. There are over 10,000 of these people. So how much did the state win with this, if that's the way to ask? 34 million kroons at the time, currently around 2.6 million euros. It's a very small victory. It was then justified by the fact that it was a difficult time for cuts to stop returning home free of charge, which is why it is done. But as we can see, it's all gone. That is why I want to hand over this week, on behalf of the Central Party Group, a draft amendment to the law that would restore the former situation in which all pensioners who need free home delivery would also receive it. It's just ugly to watch banks chase an old man's last dime, and our government is so eager to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U22	Thank you. Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U23	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, my speech today concerns too many people in Estonia. Namely, my topic is fast-track loans, including SMS loans, and their enslavement. The Ministry of Justice has developed a draft restricting advertising for financial services by now, but we still have to ask whether this is enough and what we still have to do. In fact, the problems started much earlier, namely during the economic boom and the ensuing crisis. Banks urged people to take consumer loans. The loan race, in turn, was boosted by overpriced real estate objects. Many people who bought an apartment for one million kroons in their own time now have to admit that it is worth several hundred thousand kroons less. At the same time, the Estonian state behaved quite differently and did not take out the loan. This is the case in Estonia, where the debt burden of the state is very low, but the debt burden of the people themselves is very high. Unfortunately, neither did the government take any steps to stop this wild borrowing. Too little was said about over-indebtedness and foresight and the introduction of credit limits. No one suggested considering whether after a year, for example, the builder would receive 30,000 kroons each month in order to repay the mortgage. The loan was taken and the loan was granted, and those who warned against the crisis were insulted. Thus, when a person lost his or her job and salary, he or she had to take a quick loan to preserve his or her home. It was once again the failure of the state. There was little information on the risks of short-term loans and high interest rates. The quick-borrowing companies that profited from people's trouble came up like mushrooms after rain. The rulers didn't even think about limiting their numbers. I am pleased that there is now some basis for curbing the high-speed credit market. The draft prepared by the Ministry of Justice specifies the conditions for granting a loan to the consumer and sets out more precise requirements for the promotion of the loan. The Ministry has found in the draft that advertising for financial services should be further restricted in order to avoid creating emotionally positive links and the temptation to use consumer credit to find a risk-free and simple solution to financial problems. I fully agree with this, but we must certainly also pay attention to the fact that fast-track loans are very easily available online and even in shops. By the way, Estonian Post also issues fast loans through a cooperation partner under the slogan 'If you don't want the bank to find out, it is possible to obtain the loan in cash! ' Whether a public undertaking must be involved in such a service is also a question of ethics. Younger people, who have no experience of self-management and thinking about the future, are particularly affected by fast-track loans. Can an 18-year-old high school student be granted a loan even though he or she does not have a job and depends on his or her parents' income? Many lenders, of course, may, but they put a snowball on it, which ends when parents start saving their young by means of their minimum income. Is it reasonable for the country to allow this? This is once again a matter of ethics and not only of ethics. So we are leaning towards a more radical approach. We are not in favour of restricting the advertising of fast loans, as is required in the draft prepared by the Ministry, but we are in favour of banning the advertising of fast loans. The Centre Party is planning to propose amendments to the draft developed by the Ministry of Justice to ban advertising in financial services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U24	Thank you. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin! Since Mr. Stalnukhin is not present, his report is cancelled. Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U25	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Before taking full action on the actions of the year, it has always been customary to take stock of what has been done last year, to consider the successes and not so well - done, as well as the causes of the misdemeanours. This is done by everyone for themselves, by considering the achievements or omissions of their own company or collective, or even more widely. If not all, quite a few have received pictures of boys smiling at the blue background of their mailbox here in the Riigikogu. I was lucky enough to get one of those letters. Once again, I read about the beautiful promises of many years and, behold, they were even fulfilled. For some reason neither I nor the people who live around us have noticed this happiness, much less felt it. This made me think that I should also try to summarise the greater achievements of our country's life last year. As a member of the Economic Commission, I began to recall what had been achieved in the administration of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. In opposition, this can only be done on the basis of information which has become available to the public. The latest cases, of course, will come to mind. The first thing I remember is EAS. On the one hand, we have heard companies complain that it is difficult to break through EAS bureaucracy in order to get support for their activities somehow. Now it became clear that some will have to pay back the grants because they have been divided in violation of European Union rules. Of course, the Minister does not see any problems of responsibility, but thinks that the makers do. Only limited to the resignation of former Chairman of the Board Ülari Alamets. The big mess is dominated by Eesti Energia. The violation of the Public Procurement Act has been dealt with in the course of inquiries in this Chamber, as well as in the Forum programmes, in the setting of the winner of the construction procurement of new energy blocks. The word 'positioning' is certainly the right word in this case, because it has also become clear from the audit of the National Audit Office that the award of the winner took place with the firm influence of the Minister. Today, references to trade in damages in the Jordan project have already reached the press. Quite actually, the press has already referred to the cloud of concern that has emerged over investments in Eesti Energia in Utah, Utah, America. Reference has been made to the possibility of losing up to $100 million in investment. Käo, the leading board of Eesti Energia, has, of course, rushed to confirm that such an interpretation cannot be accepted; there is no reason to regret this investment at the moment. This has always been the case, however, that if the first signs of failure appear, the persons concerned will hurry not to confirm it and use the expression 'currently all is well'. But it is likely already clear to them that the drum has gone and can't hold the stick for long. It seems that Minister Juhan Parts does not like the Public Procurement Act at all, as the next thing I remember is that the Port of Tallinn also repeatedly violated the Public Procurement Act when building Muuga container terminal and made unjustified expenses for 2.42 million euros. Although the National Audit Office drew attention to violations in its audit, the prosecutor's office did not find the need to initiate a criminal case. They were probably afraid the tooth wouldn't start, but it's easier to deal with 500 euros. Minister Juhan Parts' attitude to the audit of the National Audit Office was, in my opinion, very clear in his reply to the question of the journalist of Äripäev about the investment of new oil shale blocks in Eesti Energia: 'I have read this overview. I don't get it. 'If you still don't understand, you don't. But in that case, is there still a problem with the audit? The luxurious ski trips of the Road Administration's leaders, led by its leader Tamur Tsakko, cannot be left unforgettable. In no way would I like to believe that all of this was done without the Minister's knowledge in the office directly subordinate to the Ministry, all the more so since the Head of the Road Administration had become the party partner of the Minister as a result of the pseudo-competition. You'd rather think if the press hadn't picked it up, the boys would be driving a bus, skis, at the expense of the state and under the name of further training, and still in Switzerland. There is a reason to remind the Road Administration of the latest stories. As it has become known, Väo's traffic junction was designed to be unusable or at least dangerous according to the fingertips of a private company financing it in part. The project has to start over and the construction of a much needed traffic junction will therefore shift several years forward. Unfortunately, due to the lack of time, this list is not complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U26	Thank you. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U27	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I thought I'd share with you my thoughts for the past and just last weekend. Today's 'Morning TV' said that the last full week of January will begin, and then February will come, when the incoming electricity bills will make many eyes big and open their mouths. People are asking what's going on. Then questions arise again as to why our electricity is so expensive and whether the government could have brought this price down. I think that the coalition and the government could have done a lot here and actually could have done it now. The Democrats have submitted a bill to the Riigikogu aimed at mitigating the transition of domestic and other small consumers to an open electricity market. To this end, we proposed to amend the electricity market law in such a way that the cost of financing renewable energy support would be borne by the state instead of the consumer. This directive has been adopted in the European Union. According to this, the Estonian state will also be able to obtain money for allowances if it sells them. The essence of our proposal is that the money from the sale of emission allowances is used to cover renewable energy charges. Many countries in Europe do not charge their customers for renewable energy. These countries are in our neighbourhood as well as in Central and Southern Europe. If we look at the energy policy of this and the previous government and at all the matters of energy, we will see that this has been very aggressive and anti-consumer. The government has spent so-called full amount of money on energy development. The personal question is whether it is a cost that is wise. We build new power plants in our home country, we build something in America, we build something in Jordan, we build new power generation capacities, we build oil production capacities, we build windmills, we build hydropower plants, we build and build cogeneration plants. But it's all money! Where's the money coming from? It comes from the consumer's pocket. In addition, the consumer must maintain two transmission networks. Here, too, we are building and developing, so we have developed the concept of 'golden nets'. If you charge your electricity bill, you'll see that the transmission fees are around 40% of the total bill. There is certainly a lack of rationality with regard to these investments. This situation of industrial users has been going on for several years. This is why the so-called high electricity costs companies have not come more to Estonia after the Estonian Cell, which is working on wound wood. They're not coming anymore. The Finnish woodworker Stora Ensol has nine factories from the Arctic Ocean to Poland, including Estonia. Where is the electricity most expensive? Unfortunately, in Estonia. It is also feared that private consumers will start thinking like entrepreneurs. They look at the electricity bill, then look at their income and go abroad to better hunting grounds. The energy landscape has become nervous due to the rapid rise in electricity prices. Last week the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications of Eesti Energia was transferred to the administration of the Ministry of Finance. We read about the Estonian Express, which is happening in America. So there are many questions in this area. I'm asking you, does the price of electricity become a coffin nail for the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U28	Time's up. We'll get to the coffin nail. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U29	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, One of the hottest news on the weekend was that Estonia's new last partyless country governor's position was partyed. The name of the gentleman who was declared governor of East Viru must have been Noormägi, and he happens to be a member of the IRL. In my opinion, the question is why the position of county governor must be partyised and which balanced development in the county may be pursued in this way by county elders. I think that the IRL and Reform Party have been solidarity-based in the distribution of rural estates, since rural elders are equally from both the IRL and the Reform Party. The only governor who has not yet been partyed and has not been forced to enter the party is Hiiu County Governor, former Chancellor of the Ministry of Social Affairs Mr. Rahuoja. I don't think it's too long before he has to make that choice, too, if he wants to keep working in this job. My clear view is that political parties are secretly funded through the country's heads. As a representative of a party in the county, the county may be the person who is best able to implement the party's policy in the county. This means that he should fight for so-called his own investments and for recruiting local government leaders who have not yet elected a political party to join the party. I read from Pärnu Postimees that the Mayor of Pärnu, Mr. Metsoja, long talked the Chairman of the Sauga Council into becoming a member of Mr. Tidermann's IRL. If the task and function of a county governor is to walk the county and persuade people to join their party, should the taxpayer still pay the county governor for it, or should the money come from the party cashier? But now we have a good system, it is possible to implement party policy in counties with taxpayers' money. The mayor should ensure the balanced development of the county and fight for it. I ask how this is possible now if there is no money left in the counties to achieve this balanced development. The functions of a rural elder have also been cut, and he does not have many of them left. The last cut was that family medicine will be run in the future and doctors will be appointed by the Health Board. There has been a great deal of this loss of functions over the years. There isn't really any money to implement the balanced development of the county. When I read the papers, it seems to me that one of the main functions of a rural elder is to go and congratulate and remember someone with flowers. I read in one of the papers that the mayor and the mayor went to the sewers to show you how much work was done. Is it necessary to keep such highly paid people in the county, or is it the hidden purpose of being able to represent the interests of political parties? The mayor should be a prerequisite for the balanced development of the county, but I can give you an example from Põlvamaa, where everything happened the other way around. When there was a debate on the money of the KOIT scheme, the local government association placed one of the school buildings in the ranking seven. Look at the miracle of a rural management company, which happened to be the same party as the parent of this municipality, this object was moved to another place. It didn't matter what the rest of the county's local government leaders thought or what investment was more appropriate. I was past it. The situation today is that this school house will probably be built by autumn. But the cost of this is that more than EUR 4 million of taxpayers' money has been spent, although only 19 children were born in this municipality last year. So a lot of strength for coalition parties to implement their policies through country elders! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U30	Thank you. Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U31	Ladies and gentlemen, There are many important issues in Estonian foreign policy. All the more so as our resources are not only limited but scarce. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have tried not only to develop these issues through debate and analysis, but also often to raise them. This will be discussed further on 21 February, when another foreign policy debate will take place in this Chamber. Today I want to touch on an important issue for Estonia, which is becoming a problem. We are talking about our aspirations and ambitions in the United Nations. As we know, we have achieved a lot there. Last year Estonia was successful at the UN. Estonia was elected to the Human Rights Council; we fulfilled the duties of the UN Children's Fund and the Vice-President of the United Nations Agency for the Promotion of Women's Rights. The representatives of Estonia were active in the work of the United Nations Development Fund, the UN Population Fund Council and the Expert Group on the Status of Women Commission and the Forum of Indigenous Peoples. It is difficult to overstate Tiina Intelmann's role as President of the Assembly of the Member States of the International Criminal Court. In the beginning, the argument that sounded like a theory takes on more practical meaning, that what is important to the UN is also important to Estonia, and vice versa. Now there is a debate about what is important to Estonia in the future development of the UN and what is less important. We are talking about Estonia's candidacy to a non-permanent place in the UN Security Council. Perhaps the issue would not be so important to us if the arguing parties were not at the prominent national levels and their representatives. Some believe that Estonia must do everything in its power to achieve the position of non-permanent member of the Security Council. A lot has been done for that in a few years. The list of countries that are known to support us is already quite long. Estonia's activity in engaging in key issues in the world has increased. We have increasingly dealt with the rule of law, the concept of protection obligations, the protection of civilians, freedom and liability on the Internet, and the punitive nature of crimes against humanity. We have consistently spoken on the development of women's rights and on humanitarian aid and child protection. We have also provided resources to those in need, with positive visibility in our regional group, the Eastern European group, in particular because, despite difficult economic conditions, Estonia has been able to fulfil its promises and maintain the noble image of the donor. For this reason, we have been able to praise the participation of Estonian officers in the UN peacekeeping mission in Syria. Estonia has made constructive contributions to the UN's excessive administrative costs and has been among those countries that believe that the UN should significantly improve its activities. All of this is necessary, especially in view of the fact that, when acting as a non-permanent member of the Security Council, the country of work is not just Europe or the US, but the whole planet with its concerns, which do not seem to end. Those who doubt the status of a non-permanent member of the Security Council justify the financial appreciation of ambition when human resources are allocated to a project that does not make much sense in the eyes of most of the world's nations, because no one will notice the results and efforts that prove to be too expensive for Estonia. I think (I also proposed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs) that a born debate could be developed at our meetings in order to reach a common understanding, hopefully, whether the status of a non-permanent member of the Security Council and the obligation and responsibility it entails could be a major objective for our coming years to work towards. Or is the time for setting 'big targets' slowly coming to an end, and what is more important than sprinting is the long-distance runner's way of thinking that we should move at a consistent, moderate pace along with other also thinking countries towards shorter-term and pragmatic staged goals? The need for this debate is also underlined by the fact that discussions on the future of the Economic and Social Council ECOSOC have been intensified in order to cover sustainable development in the United Nations bodies. Let us not forget that Estonia is applying for ECOSOC's decision-making powers for the years 2015 to 2017. My personal opinion is more intriguing. Once we are in the United Nations, we must act there, say our thoughts and defend them, and if we can, offer them to other countries and nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U32	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Internet and TV watchers! Today I would like to talk about a bill that has been in the proceedings of the Riigikogu since the first working day of its composition. On 5 April 2011, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party submitted a draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which bears the proud number 1 and the content of which is that it is proposed to increase the school food allowance to EUR 1. Unfortunately, this bill passed its first reading on 7 June 2011, but since it is customary to say in this house, it has been somewhere in the Committee on Culture's drawer. Unfortunately, the Committee on Culture has no longer paid attention to this draft law. Increasing school food support has always been important to us. In fact, it was under the leadership of the Estonian Centre Party that free school food and school food support were introduced in 2002. At first, it was intended for comprehensive school and vocational school pupils, but now we want to extend it to all 1. For class 1 students, and we also want to increase the rate of school food aid from 78 cents to 1 euro. After all, prices have increased during this period, we know that very well. This means, however, that the portions have become smaller. According to one study, students themselves have complained that portions are small, they could be larger. Why is this so important? Why have we been talking about this all the time? Why did we also make this amendment during this year's state budget procedure and make it the first amendment? But because, according to different estimates, nearly 20,000 children live in Estonia, whose parents find it difficult to provide them with daily food. Free school food is important for a large number of students because it can be their only warm food per day. Many parents are unable to give allowance to their children to buy school lunch. The parents of many children work abroad and may not cook themselves warm food every day. Thus, the student's success may deteriorate as the empty stomach paralyzes thinking and inhibits learning. However, all children are equal and have the right to equal treatment. An empty stomach must not become an obstacle to acquiring knowledge and securing related choices. Warm school food is also needed to ensure that young people are in good health. Man's eating habits begin in childhood. Many diseases in adulthood also originate from unbalanced and irregular diets and the resulting childhood prevalence. Warm school lunch, 1.12. class 1 children reduces the body's fatigue and helps schoolchildren to avoid fatigue and stress. School food contributes to the development of the right eating habits and is a good way to protect children from junk food. After all, healthy children are the basis for the survival of the Estonian state. Proper nutrition as a child ensures healthier working people, and in this case public expenditure on disability and other benefits will be reduced in the future. Active workers, however, ensure higher taxes on labour, which in turn helps to balance the state budget. Thus, the provision of free school meals from primary school to upper secondary school is indispensable for both short-term and long-term goals. One of the objectives of the social policy of the Republic of Estonia is to reduce poverty in families with children. By offering hot food at least once a day, we ensure the healthy development of children and the sustainability of the country. I therefore call on the Committee on Culture to find this draft from the bottom of the drawer and send it back to the procedure so that next year the school allowance will rise to EUR 1 or EUR 1. However, it is clear that prices were quite different in 2011 than in 2013 and prices are even higher in 2014. Therefore, this amount should not be raised to EUR 1 but to EUR 1 to 50 cents or even to EUR 2. Let us all think together about how to provide children with warm food every day, and let us get this bill back to business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U34	Thank you. Please, colleague Jüri Ratas! Five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U35	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! I have come here today to the speech chair of the Riigikogu to talk about local government issues in a free microphone. We all see that there is a serious shortage of resources in Estonia. I am thinking of both human and financial resources. The results of the census and the convergence of local elections have made the issue of both administrative reform and the fundamental question of whether our municipalities and cities are sustainable again topical. The Local Government Organisation Act gives municipalities a number of responsible tasks. For example, local governments organise social assistance, care, youth work, housing and utilities, water supply, sewerage, health care, waste management and much more. It is also necessary to organise the maintenance of educational, cultural and sporting institutions owned by municipalities and other local authorities. The capacity of existing municipalities to carry out these tasks cannot be assessed in black and white. There are large and smaller municipalities that can cope with the current regime of self-government, and there are municipalities and cities that need additional help and support from the state. Unfortunately, the policies of the political parties in power and the coalition of government that they have formed have not been very self-governing. The decision-making power of local governments and budget revenue are in vain. The abolition of two local taxes, the reduction of the local government's income base and other activities have certainly reduced the capacity of local authorities. The Law on the Financial Management of a Local Government Entity and the Law on the Organisation of Local Government also decided that the net indebtedness of any municipality should not increase by more than 60% until the end of 2016 at least. The restrictions will be maintained for all municipalities, regardless of their economic capacity and future prospects. This hampers the development of local authorities in various ways, the potential of which would enable the necessary investments to be carried out which would temporarily lead to a debt burden of more than 60%. Government parties constantly make large and long-term decisions alone and do not take the views of local government representatives into account. The basic logic states that it is important to find a compromise that is satisfactory for all parties to the various positions. For example, the share of income tax received by local governments could be increased even gradually to pre-crisis levels, and the maximum permissible debt burden could initially be raised by at least 10 to 20% for economically able municipalities. Unfortunately, our current logic of governance, that only by cutting public finances can be kept in order, is very simplified and wrong. In this context, it is good to recall the recent IMF studies, which show that cutting the state budget may not be the right instrument to get out of the economic crisis. Studies showed that every euro cut from government expenditure costs the country's economy up to 1.7 times more than the amount initially won by cuts in the context of the economic crisis. Unfortunately, the biggest cuts hit the municipalities and the entire Estonian people during the most difficult times of the economic crisis, which is precisely the situation described by the IMF in its studies. Local authorities, in turn, forced the state to reduce their budgets. In its decision of 8 May 2012, the Municipal Council of the Centre Party stated that the reform of local taxes must be carried out in Estonia in order to ensure greater autonomy for local governments in organising local life. The current situation, where local authorities have very little opportunity to improve their budgetary positions and 99% of the right to decide on tax revenues is in the hands of the central authority, is not sustainable in our view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U36	Thank you. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U37	On the weekend, I met an old acquaintance we used to work with in the mine for several years. The first sentences he said to me began with the word 'why'. Why does the price of heat go up so fast, why does the price of electricity go up, etc.? I do not know if it is seen by the members of the government, by our colleagues in the coalition, but housing costs have become a serious problem for quite a number of people. We need to talk loudly about this. The most difficult thing is, of course, for families and pensioners of low-paid people, but the price increase has affected us all. The prices of heating, electricity and food are not a favorite theme for many families, but where you can get to. These are not the last things in our daily lives. During the cold days that were last week, I believe that the heat price problems were perhaps the most acute. I've seen what's happening at these prices in Ida-Virumaa. It stands out that heating prices vary several times in different municipalities. Let me give you some examples. Currently, the highest heat limit price is in Püss, where it is EUR 98,8 per megawatt-hour. The second place is Narva-Jõesuu EUR 96.2, but from February 1, the price goes down to EUR 3, thank God. Behind the hill, which is the richest parish in Estonia, 88.9 euros is paid for a megawatt-hour. In Aseri, EUR 77,2 is paid, EUR 55,5 is paid in Kohtla-Järvel, Ahtmes and Jõhvi, EUR 58 in Avinurmes, EUR 57 in Kiikla and EUR 47 in Sillamäe. The price in Narva for many years is EUR 32.9 per megawatt-hour. I also took a look at our capital. In its decision of 1 February 2012, the Competition Authority set the limit price for heat at EUR 68,8 per megawatt-hour. I was wondering how our neighbors were. I learned via the Internet that the price in Riga is EUR 62.2, in Vilnius EUR 82.5 and in Helsinki EUR 56.1 per megawatt-hour. Now I come back to my favorite subject, Kohtla-Järve. A few months ago, the Estonian Competition Authority and Viru Chemistry Group Tervisa took a completely contradictory view of the date on which a new heating price might apply in Kohtla-Järve. This small war is now over, and we can say that it is on 21 January 2013, i.e. today, that the price has been set. In Kohtla-Järve this price is EUR 55,5 per megawatt-hour, which will result in a 60.5% increase in the Järve district compared to the previous time, while in the Ahtme district and Jõhvi, room temperature will increase by 24%. Now we can be proud that the prices of heat in the city of chemists are the same as in the capital of Finland. Our Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, who recently visited Kohtla-Järve and met local journalists at Jõhvi Cultural Center, did not want to believe that a 60% price increase was possible. Speaking of money, let's just say that the annual costs of Kohtla-Järve urban institutions increase by 128000 euros and heat costs rise by 100000 euros. Of course, the fuel types most affected by the heat limit price are the types from which heat can be produced. But I think it is really difficult for us, the people working here in this Chamber, and the government to answer people why this increase is happening so quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U38	Thank you. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin! But, good colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin, please be in the hall next time you have signed your name!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U39	I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U40	We have different views, and not just on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U41	Sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U42	Ladies and gentlemen, A few years ago, to be precise, six years ago, people began to ask me why things have become so strange, why the Riigikogu increasingly takes decisions that do not take people's interests, wishes and hopes into account. I began to wonder why this was happening in Estonia. Three years ago, I came to a firm conclusion, and in January 2010 I wrote an article on this subject that still exists at least on my blog. In my opinion, the main reason is that we made a very wrong decision in 2004, which led to the separation of local government councils and the Riigikogu. In Riigikogu IX and X, very many practical questions were solved only because I, being in opposition, went to talk to my colleague, who was also the chairman of an Estonian city council, but was a member of the coalition. We discussed an important issue for the municipalities and we agreed because we were representatives of the local authorities. At the time, 98 members of the Riigikogu belonged to the local government authorities according to my memory. Everyone knew that they had direct contact with people in their area, and if they were unthinkingly voting in this Chamber for something that would make the situation worse for the common people, they would be quite and rather bad if they went to the local government. And they have to go if they're members of the council. That is why there was dialogue between the coalition and the opposition, which is why, compared to the current composition, I say to you, the draft laws tabled by the opposition also went through a great deal. It was more useful for the coalition to simply let them pass in silence, so that afterwards no one in the local government council could accuse them of opposing one thing or another. I am very pleased that this issue came up again last weekend. I have great hopes for this idea. For the past six or seven years, I have thought that this situation needs to be corrected as a matter of urgency. At the moment, there is a theoretical, but at the same time quite serious, possibility that this problem will be resolved. Ladies and gentlemen, I speak for myself. There are different opinions, but I am sure that if we take this wise decision, if we allow a member of the Riigikogu to be a member of the local government council, we will have much more cooperation and much less failure in this hall, then we will not adopt laws that will have to be improved a thousand times. I think that those people who have been accustomed to seeing a member of the Riigikogu in their region three or four times in the last eight years, or more, in seven and a half years, are waiting for this decision so that they can see us in the local government every week, every council meeting, and they can tell us about their problems and hopes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U43	I'm sorry, but I don't see any problem with the person who wrote his name marching out and writing his name again.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U44	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U45	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Today is a good day where there is no agenda. Therefore, the opposition's largest party or political group in this Chamber can say, during a free microphone, what bothers him and what makes him have a heartache. We have already heard of the politicisation of the local government leaders, especially the rural elders. It can be said that this is a situation where a rural municipality manager has to sell himself to a political party at a "kilo" price in order to get money to renovate a school building or repair a roof. But at the beginning of the year, I was surprised by the Minister for Agriculture, who took up regional policy. The Prime Minister has apparently spoken for him about all the agricultural issues in Brussels and has returned with certain news. The Minister for Agriculture does not like to go to Brussels, so we have understood. So he started making regional policy. That was quite interesting to hear. The Minister of Regional Affairs is otherwise a very nice person, only he is not involved in regional policy at all. The administrative reform is dragging and stretching, offering options, but the time is running. No real results have been achieved. The villages are becoming increasingly poor, and it is possible that they hope that our esteemed government may have more pennies on some than on others. At once, the Minister of Agriculture proposed to move 13 state institutions out of Tallinn. Tallinn is still the capital. Of course, this removal of institutions also devalues the position of the capital. This is because it is thought that the removal of institutions from Tallinn (e.g. RMK to Pärnu and Eesti Loto Rakverre) will bring more to the site, it must be said that, on the contrary, it will increase the burden on the taxpayer much more, because the costs of moving, the costs of restoring competence, etc. must be taken into account. After all, we all remember the Ministry of Education moving from Tallinn to Tartu, the sums it took. After all, the Ministry of Education still has offices in Tallinn and Tartu, so two offices need to be maintained. Last year, the Minister of Agriculture decided to move the Rural Promotion Foundation to his home area or decided to move it to Viljandi during 2013. We are not talking about how long it will take to create the same competence there. It takes time to move, too. If you do, it turns out that relocations increase costs. Regionally, this puts places in a different position, making the conditions of competition different. For example, if Põlva's person travels to Tallinn to do business, he can combine some things here. He doesn't have to go to Rakverre anymore, or if he has to go there, he'll go there for one reason. However, he must drive at least two buses from his knees, if not three, to Rakverre. Such regional political pseudo-solutions amaze me. No one will bother to see what it all brings, how much money is spent, and also how much inequality exists between small places. We look forward to seeing what other surprises our great government will offer us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U46	Thank you. Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U47	Madam Chairman! Dear four colleagues who have stayed in the Chamber and have time to deal with work during work! Honourable workers, all of whom are here! Honourable followers, no matter what means you follow us, either in the picture or in the word! I was forced to come here to the speaker's desk with some pretty serious concerns about security in our country. I do not want to talk about details, although they are also being discussed, but I am talking more about general processes and trends. These things need to be said all the more because it was precisely at Christmas that the state cheated on 195 police pensioners, respected police veteran, who have contributed well to the building up of the legal order of our democratic state. Why did the state cheat on them? Because political toilets didn't have time to keep up. One promise went out of his mind after the other, until the whole story had gone sour and there were no good solutions. Hey, this isn't a joke! Not smart people run this country, but sometimes I feel like it's bullshit. Not only are these 195 police pensioners cursing after this incident in our country, which they have just served. Wherever I meet the police pensioners, everyone's very worried and disturbed. And not just police pensioners, but all pensioners. Everyone, including the police in the service, says that there is no longer enough resources for the constables for community-centred prevention or other explanation and propaganda. Everything is reduced to a fine. Where, then, can you view Constable as an older, more educated, and even stronger mentor in such a situation? Far from it. You can't open the door to the constable because as soon as you open the door and say hello, you'll be fined. Do you mean that I don't know that the verbatim reports of police meetings are black and white, that the police can no longer use attention control as a warning for minor traffic offences? A penalty must also be imposed when for the first time a person has forgotten, for example, the reflector's home. Where do you think we're going? The inhabitants of the outskirts are literally left to God: neither the pharmacy nor the post office, nor the fire department nor the police now, the medical care is becoming inaccessible. Soon the parishes will join and the parish houses will be more and more distant from the people. Everything's gonna thinn up the country! It doesn't seem to me that it's gonna last that long. But you've got to get to the bottom of it before it rises. Thus, as things continue in the same style of government, things can get even worse. Get ready for this! Spare matches, salt, candles and solids and stay at home. Don't trust strangers, especially during the election. We survived the Northern War, we survived the occupation for over 50 years, we survive this government as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U48	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U49	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express a few thoughts on the issues of the Riigikogu, which began at the end of last year's President's Riigikogu initiative. As of 7 January, the website www.rahvakogu.ee will be able to submit proposals on five topics (in addition to the topic "Varia') how to improve Estonia's life, i.e. a debate on democracy can be held. Personally, I am, and also my home party, the Centre Party, is grateful for this debate for the cooperation of the body that is carrying it. But I want to draw attention to a few bottlenecks and a few more points, not to mention the issue in this process. Firstly, in my opinion, parties involved in this debate must not be treated as evil wolves who should be chained at all costs or, better yet, shot and skinned. Looking at the political picture of last year, people's distrust and loss of confidence in political parties are perfectly understandable. Several scandals, where the law enforcement authorities did not have a role to play, continued use of road roller tactics in the Riigikogu and the arrogany of ministers was frightening and repulsive to the people. Thus, the debateers of the state of democracy in Estonia have the full right to be sceptical about political parties, but it is certainly unwise to hold on to hatred and to encourage parties to limit their activities in all directions. Personally, I am very grateful for the cooperation of the assembly who is carrying out the process because they have treated parties as partners in this process and have invited all four parliamentary parties to participate in this work during the preparatory period. The Centre Party has also been able to participate in this process in my person. For that, we are very grateful to all of us for our cooperation. Another problem that concerns the population is that it should not only be about the way in which politics are made, but also about the content of the policy. Looking at people's daily lives, it is clear that the content of the policy is undoubtedly more important than the way in which it is done. The content of the policy means taxation arrangements, price increases, income levels, emigration issues, increasing poverty, etc. I am quite convinced that tens of thousands of people who migrate from Estonia will not leave Estonia because 19 MPs have received a compensatory mandate in Parliament, or because Silver Meikar at some point brought money together for the Reform Party, but still because they do not have a job in Estonia or because they have a job where too little wages are paid. Once again, we need to talk not only about the form of politics, but also about the content. I very much hope that President Ilves would also like to speak about these issues, or the content of the policy, who, in his turn of the year, stressed the need to pay greater attention to the ability of people to cope outside the capital, especially in the country. In his New Year's speech, Ilves also went on the issue of Estonian emigration quite thoroughly. I want to hope that it wasn't just a one-time theme for him, because nothing will change yet. The President should certainly be consistent on this issue. But the future role of the President in the process of the entire public assembly has become a little incomprehensible to me. At first, it was agreed that all the proposals that would be supported by this representative sample on the day of the people's day, whether consensual or most people's support, would be given to the President, and that the President would bring them to Parliament for discussion. Recently, however, it has been heard that the President has become afraid or cautious. It is said that, in the first stage, the President does not wish to bring to Parliament proposals concerning the amendment of the Constitution, for example, my proposal concerning the direct election of the President. Secondly, there is increasing talk about the President's so-called filtering right. It is as if the President does not bring to Parliament all the proposals that are supported by the people, but only those that are suitable for the President. I think that if the President starts sorting out what proposals are suitable for him and what he will hand over to Parliament, it will not give the public assembly more strength of action, rather it will hold back the will to act. Finally, I am among those who support the proposal that all proposals from the public assembly should go to the debate on the representative election day. They should not be discussed just behind closed doors in front of the panel of experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-21_U50	Thank you. There's no more calls. That means the hearing is closed. Closure of the sitting at 4.39 p.m.
