ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Minister. Let's start the briefing. First, please, let's do the presence check! 32 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 69 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu and Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, since five issues have been previously registered, there are only two issues that can be put forward today for each subject on the spot. Let's get to the first question. Please, colleague Priit Toobal! The question is for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U3	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Next year, the second term of office of Estonian Euro Commissioner Siim Kallas will end and Estonia will have to appoint a new Euro Commissioner. When is the government going to take this decision, and has the government partner been agreed on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U4	Thank you. The decision will be made when the time is right. Until now, we have not been negotiating with a government partner. This issue has not been addressed at government level.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U5	Please, Mr Toobal, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! In Estonia, the Government of the Republic appoints the Euro Commissioner. But perhaps you can give examples from other countries of the European Union. In other countries, is it within the competence of the government, or is this Commissioner appointed by Parliament on some sides, for example, or does Parliament or some committee need coordination? How does this work in other parts of Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U7	Thank you. I knew that you could ask this question, and that is why I have provided myself with information from Finland. A fairly thorough study has been carried out and it has been found that in most Member States of the European Union it is the government's responsibility to appoint a Commissioner for the European Commission. According to the success queen, there is only one country in the European Union where the government's proposal is voted by the full chamber of Parliament. This country is Lithuania. No other country will vote on the candidate for Commissioner of the European Commission in Parliament. There are also countries where this candidate is heard in the Committee on European Union Affairs, but most of the Member States of the European Union have exclusive competence to appoint a Commissioner for the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U8	Please, Mr Toobal, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! You said the government hasn't discussed this issue yet, but there's not much time left to make that decision, just a few months. I ask what your personal position and desire is. Do you want to become an Estonian Euro Commissioner?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U10	Thank you. I have once answered this question very correctly. The answer was that I have not been able to think of this profession as tempting. But I fully understand that whether I think the profession is attractive and offers me enough self-realization or not is not the most important thing. More importantly, the government would call me a candidate if I had that wish. Secondly, the President of the European Commission, who has been authorised to set up the European Commission, may alone reject one or the other nomination. Thirdly, according to the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Parliament is the parliamentary institution that screens the candidates, and it can also reject some nominations. So there are a lot of decision-makers, regardless of whether we're talking about candidate A, B or C. That's why I don't even bother to speculate on all possible scenarios.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U11	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U12	Thank you. Prime Minister! Your candidacy in Europe would hardly be rejected, after all, you have been a representative of Europe's fine child, of the Republic of Estonia, and always received praise for our progress. But can you tell us which parameters are used to make this choice, whether the individual characteristics of a person? Where does the government come from when he decides to choose this, the second or the third man? What kind of person does that have to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U13	Article 17 (3) of the Treaty on European Union states: 'The members of the Commission shall be chosen on the basis of their general expertise and their commitment to European affairs from persons whose independence is beyond doubt. The Commission shall be completely independent in the performance of its duties. Without prejudice to Article 18 (2), the members of the Commission shall neither seek nor receive instructions from any government, institution, body, office or agency. They shall refrain from any action incompatible with their duties or with the performance of their duties. ' This is enshrined in the Treaty. Obviously, a potential candidate must meet these conditions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U14	Please, the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U15	Thank you. The previous questioner asked why the government decided to choose this or another man. The European Commission is aware that it is very important that there are also women among the Commissioners. There are now a third of women among them. On this basis, it can be assumed that if Estonia has been represented for ten years by a male top politician, we are now expected to have a completely different approach. Has there been any message to the government that this time Estonia should send a very competent woman to represent itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U16	Obviously, it is not the government's priority what gender a potential candidate is. What is important is that it meets the conditions laid down in the Treaty, which I read out. Good candidates are always welcome, so it will be much easier for the government to make its decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U18	The next question is my colleague, Marianne Mikkolt, to Mr Reinsalu, Minister for Defence. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister and ministers! This year, 15 years passed from the time a government decree set up the United Educational Institutions of the Defence Forces. This is a fully respectable higher education institution in the Estonian era of independence, the history of which dates back to 1919. Thus, the Defence Forces United Educational Institutions are the only militaryly organised state-defence university of applied sciences located in the area of government of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia and under the authority of the Commander of the Defence Forces. This educational institution is the promoter of military research and development in the Republic of Estonia. Students will receive a decent scholarship and receive uniforms. But why does this university of applied sciences have problems filling places every year? Not all places were filled this year either. Secretary of Defense Reinsalu, why do you think this is the case?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U20	Thank you. Honourable questioner! Defence United Educational Institutions, including the Higher Military School, where officers are trained as well as the Battle School, which provides vocational training, will certainly play a very important role in ensuring the quality of our national defence. It is also very important to clarify that the best possible candidates consider the position of a professional military officer. Young people studying in upper secondary schools should be aware of the opportunities offered, including that the profession of a military officer is stable and provides a solid income. The wage reform carried out in the Defence Forces in the spring of this year is very important in this respect. We saw the impact of this already last year, when it was known that wage reform would come. Then more people came into the military than they left. There was no such positive trend for several years. It is important to us that competition in higher military schools is increased. Greater competition is one indicator that among young people the profession of an officer, the profession of a professional military officer, is more valued. In 2013, 59 young people began to study. 125 young people came to the entrance tests, 122 remaining after the general physical test, 122 candidates after writing the Estonian essay were also 122 and 79 after the qualifying interview. So there is, in fact, an effective sieve, but certainly, in my opinion, competition could be stronger.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U21	Please, Mr Mikko, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U22	If the Republic of Estonia had an officer to be proud and good, there would be a major competition for both the Higher Military School and the Battle School. Unfortunately, no such storm or urge has been observed in Tartu. How can we explain the relative unpopularity of the sub-office and what should we do to ensure that young people come to the United Defence Study Institutions so that there is a valid competition for positions? What can I do?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U23	Thank you. I think that the profession of officer and sub-officer, the profession of professional military officer at all (there are also more occupations and professions) is certainly more than just a paid job. A person chooses this profession for life. The Defence Forces are built on a career system. This means that it is assumed that the Defence Forces will be able to use these people and their experiences long enough. Motivative income, self-realisation opportunities and a clear human resources policy are certainly very important. I stressed that this spring, there was a wage reform in the Defence Forces. With regard to the personnel policy of the Defence Forces, the Commander of the Defence Forces will develop clear guidelines and the military part of the defence development plan established for ten years should give professional defence forces an understanding of the type of defence force we will have in the ten-year term and on the basis of what priorities it will develop. All of this helps young capable people to understand that the position of a Defence Forcesman is stable, provides income for the Defence Forces and their families, and it is possible for the Defence Forces to test themselves both in Estonia and elsewhere. But in addition to this, the ethical, moral dimension is of course important when choosing an officer's profession, the development of which certainly also plays a major role in the practical work of the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U24	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U25	Thank you. There have been times when the surplus of the money of the Defence Forces United Educational Institutions reached even 300 million Estonian kroons at the end of the year. What is the surplus, Mr Minister, in this year, in 2013 and where will these amounts be spent in this few and a half months?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U26	Thank you. When we talk about the general budget of the Defence Forces, it should be 100% as it stands today. There is, of course, a role here for the current management costs, but also for the investment payments that are being made. In this regard, some previous years have shown problems with the implementation of the budget. They have not so much resulted from weak planning as from the fact that there have been problems with individual large-scale procurement. There have been challenges to procurement and problems regarding the failure of the winner of the major procurement contest to meet the deadline and therefore it has not been considered appropriate to pay out the money. As regards the budget and implementation of the Joint Training Institutions of the Defence Forces, this budget, too, is expected to be implemented on an ongoing basis by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U27	Two locally registered questions can now be submitted. Please, my colleague, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U28	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! I'm asking about motivation. I hear military personnel are paying rents in dormitories right now. There wasn't one before. Aren't you afraid there'll be a situation where dorms will be empty?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U29	Thank you. The career of a frame defence officer also means rotation over the course of his career. In order to alleviate the problems, the housing of the frame defence forces has been established, there are official apartments, as well as dorms. My guideline has been that these surfaces should be accessible only to persons who are entitled to use them, i.e. frame defence officers, officers or sub-officers. There is no projected surge in spending here. Therefore, given the current cost of using office housing, which is 32 cents per square metre, it should certainly not be the case that business apartments are not to be used. On the contrary, there's a queue to get a dwelling. These apartments are distributed by the Defence Forces themselves on the basis of a Commission decision. I am sure that this will be done transparently and that only those who have the right to do so will have access to housing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U30	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U31	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I return to the question of how popular this school is among young people. Do you see any role here in the school's national defence education and the idea of some schools to develop it further in the field of in-depth education? What thoughts and ideas do the Department of Defense have on this for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U32	Thank you. That is an important question. These issues are certainly linked. I've met the cadets myself and asked them how they had the idea of going to a higher military school. A lot of them have responded to me that they got this idea from their national defense teacher as part of their upper secondary school course, some have said they were just coming to see. There are those to whom this has been a highly aware professional choice, and there are also those who have chosen between several civil professions and the military profession. I will not show modesty about learning conditions. The economic conditions in this school are certainly very good: scholarship, free living environment, etc. If, over the next four years, we are able to implement the national defence education programme currently being developed by the Ministry of Defence in such a way that all students in all general education schools receive this education, it would certainly improve significantly, I have no doubt, the motivation of young people to consider, among other things, the profession of a professional defence officer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U33	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of Defense. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U34	The next question is Mr Andrus Ansip, my colleague, Mr Ester Tuksoo, to Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Prime Minister! Yesterday's Eesti Päevaleht read that the Ministry of the Interior has given the management of the waiting area of the Koidula border crossing point to the offshore company Paldiski Sadamate AS. The offshore area is mostly used for non-payment of taxes for domestic business. My colleague Sõerd has also condemned this. What kind of signal does the government give to society with this step?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U36	Thank you. I also read this article on the Estonian Päevaleht. Maybe I'm wrong now, but I didn't count it as an offshore company. In my opinion, this was a company registered in Estonia, owned by an offshore company. There is a significant difference between whether the service is provided by an offshore company or is the owner, shareholder, shareholder, offshore company of the service company. The state has announced a procurement, a transparent open competition. Offers have been submitted to the open competition and the best one has won. I'm not familiar with their particular procurement circumstances, I guess I don't have to be. However, I think that simply because the owner is an offshore company, the company registered in Estonia does not have to assume any maliciousness immediately. I would approach the question in good faith.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U37	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U38	Thank you, Madam President. Sometimes you have to approach in good faith. In the middle of last year, however, Chancellor Teder took the view that if a person has previously booked and paid for the vehicle in the queue on the Internet, the fee for using the waiting area may not be charged if the vehicle is immediately diverted from the waiting area to the border crossing point. Teder sent a proposal to the Minister for the Interior to eliminate the unlawfulness of charging for the use of waiting areas at the border crossing points in Koidula and Luhamaa. Why has the Minister of the Interior in your government not yet fulfilled the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U39	Thank you. The waiting list system for border crossings consists of two components: the electronic reservation fee for border crossings and the fee for the specific services provided in the waiting area. On this point, I share the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice. If this waiting area is not actually used, it is not appropriate to charge for it. The actual circumstances led to why we created an electronic queue for border crossings and a parking complex for residential services. There was a screaming need for it. There was a time when the border line was 50 kilometres long and the border had to be waited for a week, for example, in the direction of Narva. It was never possible for a simple person to cross the border. Traffic-dangerous situations arose, as cars took the lane, nature was polluted, etc. This was not only an Estonian question, but it has been exactly the same in other countries. In Valalimaa, the order of the border was sometimes as long as 130 kilometres long, and a 65 - mile [65 km] long queue was quite common. The border order created a traffic hazard and there was also a death. I remember that Matti Vanhanen's government allocated EUR 25 million to build a parking lot in Valimaa to ensure road safety. Our situation was perfectly comparable to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U40	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Prime Minister! By decision of 29 October, the Administrative Court upheld the complaint against the Police and Border Guard Board and declared it unlawful to refer the crossing to an unjustified waiting area before border control operations were carried out. The Court found that it was unlawful to charge a waiting period for border crossings from those who had previously closed the place in waiting order and did not use the waiting area services. The judgment has not been enough, and the situation is still, as you have heard, unnatural and uncomfortable for a border crossing. How do you think the situation at the border crossing points will return to normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U42	Thank you. In order of order, the situation has now returned to normal. We no longer have extremely long border queues. I know the Ministry of the Interior is going to challenge the decision of the administrative court. What ends the litigation is very difficult for me to predict. The reservation fee is obviously necessary because the management of the queue requires costs. Our current system is built on the principle that whoever receives the service must also pay for it. The alternative would be for anonymous taxpayers who do not receive the service to pay for the entire service through the state budget. However, it is probably more reasonable to charge a fee to those who use a particular service. If someone has registered in the electronic order of the border crossing and paid for it, when they arrive at the border, I will remind you of the question you asked here before in the Riigikogu, and my opinion is that the registration fee is not to ask him again for any right. In Estonia, you should not charge twice for a service provided only once. The question is whether a charge may be charged for a particular household service or parking space if the border is exceeded. I will answer the following question, and then I will answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U43	Two locally registered questions can now be submitted. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! It's getting weird. I think somebody's very personal interest is at stake here, somebody wants to keep this time from changing, and the waiting period will continue. The Chancellor of Justice has drawn attention to this, the Tartu Administrative Court has made a decision, but the state is trying to keep this dispute with the citizen. It is as if the State would support the legitimate nature of the deferred payment. How do you feel about this situation, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U45	Thank you for giving me the opportunity to continue to answer the question of Esther Tuiksoo! If the place is closed in the electronic system, the car arrives at the border and there is no queue at the border, virtual or physical, then charging the border crossingr for some non-service provision is out of my question. However, if electronic registration has not taken place, no place has been taken in the queue, and although there is no queue at the time of arrival at the border, I believe that it is appropriate to register the queue for border crossings and also to charge the parking fee. Otherwise, there would be long queues on the roads before the border for those who do not want to use parking services and who ultimately create a dangerous traffic situation and pollute nature. That would cause a lot of problems. Yes, it is somewhat uncomfortable and, in some ways, difficult to understand why those who have not previously registered the border crossing in the electronic system and have not closed the border in order have to do so at the border even if there is no real queue. The thing is, in a virtual environment, in an electronic system, this order exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U46	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You rightly said that the idea of creating such a system was that it was necessary to abolish the very long border queues that once existed. For a certain time, the system worked correctly. I made an extract of the border queues in Koidula this morning. The statistics of recent days show that border crossings have been very thin. From 12:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m., only 14 passenger cars have crossed the border. Are you really saying that these 14 passenger cars are obliged to go through the waiting area and pay some kind of waiting fee? There's no line. It even raises the question of whether they even have to pay the booking fee. Do you agree with me that the system is not working and that it needs to be reviewed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U48	You probably didn't listen to me very carefully. In answering the question of Esther Tuiksoo, I specifically said that those people who have arrived on the border queue and who have previously registered in the queue system should not have to pay this waiting fee. I have not said that these persons should go through the waiting area and also pay for services they have not received from it. According to the Ministry of the Interior, border management services include keeping the queue for border crossings, which means in particular the creation of software (including hardware is necessary for this purpose), parking in the vehicle waiting area while waiting for border crossings, placing the vehicle at the border crossing point and receiving it at the road border crossing point. Access to the Internet, lighting and surveillance of the waiting area, including video surveillance, and access to the collection and use of municipal waste in the waiting area, are considered as a service. If the crossing is not using these municipal services, I do not think it is appropriate to charge for those services that are not provided.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U49	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue because, when we discuss the next issue, this debate will probably go on.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U50	The next question is put by my colleague, Mr Luigas, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Let me give you a few examples that illustrate the current situation. There have been situations when a person has booked border crossings, but he has reached the waiting area 15 minutes earlier and has then been held under compulsion, the barriers have not been raised and the person has not been able to cross the border before. This does not mean that a person uses a waiting area, but is forced into a waiting area and is forced to wait, even though no car has been registered for border crossings. There have also been cases where the car has travelled directly to the border and the border guard has told the driver that the waiting period has not been paid, and this car has been returned, only in order to be able to pay some kind of fee to a private company. Is such conduct at the border natural and logical?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U52	Thank you. This question has already been asked today, and I have also answered it. In my opinion, it is not appropriate to include a waiting period if no services are actually provided.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U53	Please, Mr Luigas, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U54	Thank you, Prime Minister. We have been talking about this in the Riigikogu for a year and a half. My colleague, Ester Tuiksoo, read to you the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice and the proposal to the Minister for the Interior that the infringement should be brought to an end. Yet it has not been done to this day. We have repeatedly held meetings on this subject and have made enquiries in the Riigikogu. What prevents the Minister of the Interior from amending the law on the state border and coming to the Riigikogu so that we can make these changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U55	Thank you. It's a matter of belief or disbelief. For some reason, I do not believe that double-cassing is a mass or standard practice for placing a place in the electronic border queue. You're nodding and saying it's common practice. I can't believe it. If the place is closed electronically and arrives at the border just as the queue arrives, what can be done for the second time? The case you described in your previous question, when the border crossing arrived 15 minutes earlier at the border, was, in my opinion, exactly the time to reach the border. All rules must be humane in particular and, in 15 minutes' time, once again, to be registered in an electronic queue system is, in my opinion, inhumane. That shouldn't be done. I don't blame the law here. I think the law is correct. But when the cases you have referred to have actually taken place, I would argue that they are treated as violations of the law, not as proof that the law is somehow flawed. All vehicles are charged for placing the place in the electronic border queue, the vehicle being a motorbike or a heavy-duty vehicle, EUR 1 and 30 cents. I think it's appropriate to cash that fee. The only alternative would be to cover the costs of keeping records from the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U56	Please, Mr Luigas, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U57	I'm glad to hear that you've realized, too, that you shouldn't take double fees. Once the driver has booked a border crossing, he should actually no longer have to pay for the same service for the second time. However, the Minister of the Interior constantly confirms that it is a complex service and that all drivers will have to pay for it. We have proposed to him that a change be made to the state border law which would prohibit such a breach of law. It is right now, because we are dealing with the state budget, and before the third reading, the political groups and the committees have the right to make proposals on the state budget. Would you and your party support this amendment to the State Border Act if it were made in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U58	Thank you. Unfortunately, I did not understand what you specifically wanted to change in the law. I have a statement from the Ministry of the Interior. I do not read in any sentence of this statement the idea of confirming your claim as if double registration of the border crossing order fee under the current law was in any way lawful or permissible. On the contrary, from this statement by the Ministry of the Interior, I understand that a border crossing has the right to charge a queue registration fee only once.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U59	A question registered on the spot, Mr Toobal, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U60	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! First of all, I have a suggestion for you. I strongly recommend that you look into the background of those entrepreneurs who take the waiting period and who are involved with them. But you have repeatedly stressed that you agree with the Chancellor of Justice. You also said that the Ministry of the Interior had planned to appeal the decision of the Tartu Administrative Court. Doesn't the Home Office share the government's position? In fact, what will the Ministry of the Interior appeal if your position is clear and you support this judgment and the position of the Chancellor of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U61	Thank you. It is not the case in Estonia that there is one prime minister who uses telephone law and is above the courts or legislator. Absolutely not. If there are differences of opinion in the interpretation of the law, it is reasonable to find out in particular what these differences are about, who interprets the law correctly and who is mistaken, and when clarity has arrived, it is possible to amend the law. When clarity arrives without the assistance of the court, it is the preferred solution from the point of view of the taxpayer's wallet. I very much wish that the differences that have sounded in this Chamber and which the speakers attribute to the Ministry of the Interior could be resolved without the assistance of the Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U62	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Kaljuvee, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U63	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I'm coming to help Inara Luigas. You didn't quite understand what the amendment that Inara was talking about was all about. Inara's proposal is that if the company that provides border crossings with these services under the management contract is not able to reach its "contract capacity," the missing amount would be paid from the state budget. At the moment, the border guard knows that this company is experiencing economic difficulties and is forcing people to pay. Then the system would start to operate in such a way that the company has a contract of this size and its costs are such. If the border crossingrs don't...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U64	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U65	... use these services, then pay the state. Would you agree with such a proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U66	Thank you. Without knowing to the least the content of the management contract, without knowing what the country's obligations to the company managing the border order are, it is impossible for me to give any clear answer as to whether or not I would support compensating for any loss of revenue from the state budget. In order to make such substantial financial decisions, it would be necessary to first examine the content of the management contract and only then be possible to take decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U67	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will also stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U68	The last issue registered is from my colleague, Tõnis Kõiv, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U69	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Last week, the National Audit Office presented an overview of the use and disposal of state assets 2012. In 2001 and Alar Karis, the Auditor General, introduced this overview here. Part of this overview is entitled 'Estonian challenges for sustainable development' and deals with the pension system. Of course, it is to be welcomed that the National Audit Office is concerned about the pension system, and the sustainability of the Estonian state, including the pension system, is really important, but the more it is necessary to consider what proposals to make and what not to do. On page 42 of the National Audit Office's review, the colourful letter highlights that pension insurance can be balanced if the average old-age pension is reduced to 200 euros or the social tax is increased by 10%. Although the National Audit Office acknowledges that these proposals are obviously not acceptable to society, they have nevertheless submitted them. What has the government done to ensure that our pension system is sustainable and that pensioners of today and tomorrow should not be afraid of such changes to the proposals of the National Audit Office?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U70	Thank you. I would not like to speak very much about this review of the National Audit Office, because the discussion that has emerged from the content of the headlines published on online media has filled the whole media space. It seems to me that what is important in this review has not created any social resonance, there is no debate about it. I dare say even more: it is unlikely that those who have now been discussing the subject at the top of the headlines have ever been familiar with this material. Perhaps it is not even fruitful to try to start this debate again here right now. After all, a good questioner knows that pensions have been paid out in Estonia under the law, we have indexed the pensions. In order to pay pensions, it is not enough to pay the part of the social tax pensions, but to take the additional budget from other revenue. So far, the government has been able to find these additional resources from other revenue to pay pensions. Therefore, there is no basis for frightening pensioners. The National Audit Office has tried to claim that they have not said that pensions must be reduced to 200 euros or that they must increase social tax by 10%. I don't have the guts to consider this to be mine either. I read in exactly the same way about this overview of the sidebar or side letter of the National Audit Office precisely what it says: 'Pension insurance can be balanced if the average old-age pension is reduced to 200 euros or the social tax is increased by 10%. '
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U71	Please, Mr Kõiv, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U72	Thank you. The topic concerning the purchasing power of Estonians is also related to the overview of the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office has concluded that the welfare of the Estonian people has not improved. To illustrate this conclusion, he has set out the figures on our purchasing power on the basis of which we are even below the Lithuanians and have not been able to exceed the pre-crisis level. At the same time, it has already been mentioned in point 35 of the overview that the purchasing power of Estonian people is only 69% of the European Union average, but in addition to point 36, it has been pointed out in colour that it is only 68% of the European Union average. This mistake has also gone through the media. It seems that the National Audit Office is not enough to admit an error, as this conclusion is probably so desirable. The question is, how much does it make sense to compare these data with the tip of the boom time? But what is your comment on the purchasing power of an Estonian person? How will Estonia's development be affected if we constantly disparage our situation, even at the cost of making mistakes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U73	We're going down the path of absolutization again. No, it is not quite the case that we constantly denigrate the situation and, like in this review by the National Audit Office, it would only appear to be derogatory. If you read this account carefully, you can find even a word about the public finance address at the beginning of it. There is a great deal of good here at the address of the Estonian state and government. I find it unfair to have a derogatory role in this review. I wouldn't want to discuss the purchasing power of Estonians any more. It is embarrassing, of course, that the National Audit Office has not acknowledged its mistake and is talking about the enormous complexity of getting the latest data from Eurostat. There is nothing complicated there, just to go to Eurostat's website. You see, this website is in my way right now. Here are popular databases 'GDP per capita in PSP' and others. This is exactly what you said that the argument that the purchasing power of Estonians would not have reached pre-crisis levels is not true. This is confirmed by Eurostat. However, this untrue statement has been mentioned not only in one but even in two points of this review, in contrast to the two adjacent pages, once 69% of the European Union average, once 68%. The mistakes made should be recognised.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U74	Please, Mr Kõiv, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U75	In this sense, I agree with you that I, too, would certainly like to acknowledge the sincere concern of Auditor General Alar Karis for the future of the Estonian state and encourage him to think further in this direction. However, progress is still driven by a debate based on adequate soil, or facts, and on this day as well as on the memory of a recent or more distant past. After all, the Government of the Republic is working on the future of our country. When I think about sustainable development, I remember first and foremost the negotiations on the next budgetary perspective of the European Union, which ended very successfully in Estonia. This result should, in my view, have a very clear impact on our sustainable development over the next seven years, until 2020. But maybe I'm wrong. How do you think the next budgetary perspective will affect the sustainable development of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U76	It's good. All the rumors that European Union funds will be lost and there will be no more money for investment are unfounded. But if your question was due to this review, I can assure you that this review has not tried to say at all. The budget negotiations were indeed successful for Estonia. We will have EUR 5.89 billion over the next seven years. This will probably be complemented by Rail Baltic funds from the Connecting Europe Facility, which is intended to implement energy projects. So there will be no reduction in resources, but there may be, and probably there will be, a problem with the implementation of certain European Union funds and therefore there will be fewer of these European Union funds. However, we know that, together with the European Union's resources, Estonia's investment in GDP is among the first in the European Union or also the first in the first place. If all the European Union's resources were to be taken away from investments, Estonia's investment would also serve as an example for a very, very large number of other European Union Member States. This is not because of our special investment, but because of our vital needs. If other countries have been able to make investments in a consistent and high quality manner over a hundred years or more, then we have only invested seriously for the last 20 years. Therefore, the need for greater investment in our country is greater than in Western Europe. I would not complain about the lack of investment compared to other Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U77	A question registered on the ground, Mr Gräzin, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U78	Prime Minister! In this same control report, there have been reports of horror stories in quite a number of places that will happen in 50, 60, or 70 years' time. To give an example, the following sentence: 'Prognoses suggest that in 2060 only 1.3 employees will be required to support one pensioner. ' I ask if it's good or bad. 50 years ago, there were kerosene lamps in Estonia, riding a horse cart, calculating Felix and the billboard and plowing with a tape tractor. That was 50 years ago. The National Audit Office works ahead for the next 50 years and says that 1.3 employees are few to support one pensioner. Do you think such pushkin philosophical-poetry predictions can be made in advance for 50 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U79	I'm sure it's okay. If forecasts are made, they must be made on the basis of certain assumptions. I believe that the prerequisites for such a forecast are the currently known increase in life expectancy, retirement age and employment rate. The question is, how exactly can we predict these parameters in such a distant time? Yes, the Auditor General's review condemns us to undecided decisions about the retirement age, but I argue that it was only in 2009 that we decided to increase the retirement age to 65 by 2026. Then we also had the opportunity to raise the retirement age by 2035 on a proposal from scientists to 67, but once again, on a proposal from scientists, we decided to make the next pension age decisions in 2019, because during that period, until 2019, we will receive much more credible forecasts of employment and life expectancy in 2035. The question is not that we have not dared or wanted to decide, but that the decision we would have made for 2035 would have been emotional, intuitive and not so much argued. I am quite convinced that in 2019 we will be able to make decisions in a reasoned manner and consider different mechanisms, whether to increase the retirement age, individual pension schemes or something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U80	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U81	Now I think we can only ask one question. Please, colleague Sven Mikser! Tell me who the question is meant for.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U82	Thank you. The question is for the Prime Minister. We know that a deficit of EUR 24 million has arisen on the revenue side of the budget as a result of the withdrawal of the change to the regime for the taxation of public cars. Today, your party partner, the former Minister of Finance, Mr Sõerd, has offered that some of this, namely 5.1 million, could be compensated by delaying or delaying the interest refund to Greece. I would ask for your position on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U83	Thank you. I do not have an unambiguous position on this issue. I believe that if the countries have agreed on something, the agreements must be respected. However, the content of this agreement has been that the national central banks receive funds because the European Central Bank has made very high profits on Greek government bonds, and the national central banks transfer these funds to governments that return the high interest income earned by Greeks to Greece. At the moment, in Estonia, our central bank has received funds from the Greeks, the income has been well earned, but our central bank board has decided to hand over to the government the usual 25% of the annual income, and the extra income from Greek bonds has not been transferred to the government. In some ways, it is a place of measurement between the bank and the Riigikogu or between the bank and the government. But the state as a whole should respect the agreements, and yet return to them the extreme profits that the Greeks have earned.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U84	A very brief question, please, Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The question is for the Prime Minister, and it relates to the first question of this Question Time. In 2009, Foreign Minister Paet said that the sooner we call our Euro Commissioner, the better the hope of a good position in the future Commission. That's why I'm trying to force you to do something about this. Have you, or, as you know, your coalition partner, been approached by, for example, President Toomas Hendrik Ilves?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U86	Not that I know of. I don't think that speculation makes any sense either. After all, it makes no sense for the Member States to present these candidates at a very early stage. A reasonable time comes when there is already some kind of vision of who, as President of the European Commission, could have the power to set up the European Commission. As I said in reply to the first question, the President of the European Commission, who has been given the power to set up the Commission, may reject the Commissioners-designate proposed by the Member States. Without knowing this person and his attitude toward one, another, third, or thirteenth candidate, it would seem pretty premature to start presenting candidates just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U87	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Thank you very much, colleagues, for asking questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister and Members of the Government, for answering questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U88	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the eighth working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Before that, I ask you all to sit down!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U89	Attention, honourable Riigikogu, please. Jüri Morozov is an alternate member of the Riigikogu due to the resignation of the member of the Riigikogu Jaanus Marrand. Let's hear Jüri Morozov's oath. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U90	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to be loyal to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U91	Now, ladies and gentlemen, there is an opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U92	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I have an inquiry to the Social Minister, Taavi Rõivas. The inquiry concerns health insurance for conscripts. We know that health insurance is guaranteed to all Estonian residents for whom social tax is paid. This is also guaranteed for conscripts. The service lasts eight or eleven months. The eight-month service usually starts in October and the eleven-month service usually starts in July. The civil servant's insurance cover ends one month after the state's obligation to pay social tax ends, i.e. one month after the termination of military service. As a general rule, it takes up service after completion of secondary education or at the time of the completion of the first level of higher education. The conscripts themselves estimate that the best time for military service is immediately after graduating from upper secondary school. Before entering military service...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U93	Colleagues, please keep it down!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U94	... entrance examinations are taken at higher education institutions and, in the event of entry, it is possible to go on academic leave because of the conscription. But the problem is that after serving in the armed forces, academic leave is not over. Then there will be a situation where a young man released from military service will remain without health insurance for two months. In this regard, we have three questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U95	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If an inquiry complies with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act, I shall forward it to the addressee immediately. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the pharmaceutical law, initiated on 11 November, of which the commission is the Committee on Social Affairs. Secondly, the draft law amending the Income Tax Act and § 3 of the Social Tax Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, whose commission is the Finance Commission. Thirdly, a draft of the Riigikogu decision "Construction of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Institutions' submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the leading committee of which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Fourthly, the Riigikogu Committee on Monetary Affairs. The appointment of the "Auditor" of the decision of the Riigikogu, submitted on 12 November 2013, presented by the Riigikogu. In order to monitor the activities carried out in 2006', a draft, the commission of which is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U96	We are going to address today's agenda items. The first and probably the most important item on today's agenda is the second reading of Draft State Budget Act 2014 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like the Chair of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester, to present the report. Please, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U97	I have a procedural question, if I may. Draft 490 which we are going to discuss, the list of amendments to be tabled, which cannot be there on the basis of the law in force. I would like to mention, for example, the proposal No 358, which triples the increase in child allowances, with a change of EUR 50 million. It has been shown as a source of coverage by an increase in income tax of EUR 48 million under Amendment 243, but not by the 2014 budget, but by the 2015 budget. That means there's no source of cover. If we follow the Home and Working Procedures Act in conjunction with the State Budget Act, this proposal cannot be included in the list of amendments. Unfortunately, the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not remove it from the list. I would like to know if we can now remove this proposal from this list.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U98	Ladies and gentlemen, The Bureau shall not make such proposals. That was the decision of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the Committee on Monetary Affairs brought the amendments to this Chamber. We can express our opinion in the vote. We have had such a debate once before. If amendments are made without a source of cover (they were also in the past), the large hall will decide whether to accept them. Please be very precise when you decide! Listing amendments is a matter for the Commission and we are not going to discuss it now. Please start your presentation, Mr Sester, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Who has a procedural question? Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U99	Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said that it is the Committee on Monetary Affairs who has brought these amendments into the big room. The next procedural question is on the esteemed Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U100	Thank you, good manager. Could you ensure that member of the Monetary Commission, Aivar Sõerd, who had the opportunity to draft a normal state budget law, does not interfere with the work of the Riigikogu plenary?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U101	I said, let's get started. Sven Sester's on the speaker's desk. Please, Mr Sven Sester, tell us what work you have done in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Then your committee members will also know why you did so. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U102	Thank you. What are we dragging around here? Let's do it!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U103	Madam President! Before I begin to take stock of the work carried out in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I would like to ask scrupulously, if possible, to give me ten more minutes, because it is very likely that my report will be longer than it is intended. I've reported it to you before.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U104	Okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U105	Ladies and gentlemen, It's nice to see that there are so many questions before I get to the presentation. But let's get right to the point. I'll give you an overview of the bill bearing the number 490. This is the second reading of the draft State Budget Act 2014. The Government of the Republic has initiated the draft State Budget Act 2014, the first reading of which took place in the Riigikogu's plenary session. a on 23 October 2004. The first reading of the draft was closed, the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5 p.m. on 30 October. The Commission discussed the draft on 4 and 5 November. During the state budget procedure, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has listened to all the ministers in the field in order to get a detailed overview of the budgets in the areas of government. Between the first and second readings, Urmas Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Helir-Valdor Seeder, Minister of Agriculture, attended the meeting of the Commission on 4 November. On the same day a meeting took place with representatives of Eesti Pank, led by Ardo Hansson, the President of the Bank. As I have said, there were meetings with the rest of the ministers before the first reading. Now I am talking about the topics and questions that were discussed at the meeting with the representatives of Eesti Pank. The Governor of Eesti Pank gave an overview of the outlook of the world, European and Estonian economies and the state of public finances. The euro area's longest economic downturn ended in the second quarter and confidence has grown strongly. The budget deficit is falling in Europe and in other regions as well. Low inflation in the euro area will last for at least a year and monetary policy interest rates will be record low. The bank manager stated that an active monetary policy has been effective. We talked about what is happening in the Estonian economy. However, nominal growth has largely come from price increases. Wage growth has increased and labour cost growth is already felt in prices. Inflation, however, is the lowest in the last three years. Regarding the current situation, it was pointed out that the risk of weakening export demand and the rapid increase in labour costs could also jeopardise Estonia's competitiveness. The overview of public finances and fiscal policy Through the eyes of Eesti Pank, it can be summarised as follows: strong and sustainable fiscal policies, small size and openness require constant preparedness and reserves, and the European Union's structural funds will start to decrease in the future. Eesti Pank will carry out the tasks of the fiscal council provided for in the two-pack and fiscal agreement. Estonia needs a fiscal policy aimed at creating a surplus, and the new state budget supports the achievement of this goal. The overall recommendation is to quickly achieve the objectives of the budgetary strategy and to monitor both structural and nominal indicators. I will now mention some of the questions that were put to the representatives of Eesti Pank in the Commission. They asked about the forecast for next year. The Bank confirmed that their latest forecast is close to 4%. An assessment of tax receipts was also requested. Eesti Pank said that it coincides with the assessment made by the Ministry of Finance. Productivity growth and wage growth were mainly seen as an increase in wages in lower decidals. Foreign Minister Urmas Paet, who went to the Commission on the same day on 4 November, pointed out the following keywords. Wage growth in the ministry is 5% in the middle, which is characteristic of all ministries. There will be high-level conferences in Tallinn next year and Estonia will take the lead in several projects, such as the Baltic Sea Ministerial Meeting, the Baltic Assembly Presidency, etc. Talked about visa. More labour is needed in the representations of the countries to the east of us, and there is also a need to invest in embassies in London and Moscow. Our embassy in Brazil is completely new, it will be dealt with, and embassy buildings in India and China are either completed or are about to be completed. A separate issue was the effectiveness of development aid. Aid must go in the overall picture to combat poverty. There was talk about how to better ensure that help reaches the right goal and how to measure it. These were rules, formulas and internal control in the context of development aid. Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder said that the total budget of the Ministry was EUR 332.4 million, with external aid and co-financing amounting to EUR 283 million. External grants are mainly divided into direct payments and all other international investments. He is concerned that the top-up of additional national support may no longer be paid in 2014. The European Commission has decided that it may be paid by the countries that joined it in 2004 for the next budget period. We don't have that money in the budget. Other national subsidies, such as breeding and development subsidies, are also decreasing, however. The new period of structural resources is certainly difficult for the PRIA. I shall now turn to the amendments. By the deadline for tabling amendments, i.e. By 30 October 2008, 403 amendments were tabled to the draft, two of which were subsequently withdrawn. The Committee on Finance drew up one proposal, which largely consists of technical changes and clarification of the sections within the areas of government of the ministries. With this proposal, § 17 was included in the draft. This proposal has been drawn up on the basis of additional information from ministries and specific clarifications have been added to each amendment. Explanations of the amendments are also included in the list of amendments. Each year, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has encountered difficulties in properly presenting proposals when examining amendments. The amendments to the state budget must comply with the requirements of § 116 of the Constitution, § 20 of the State Budget Act and § 99.102 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures and § 106 of the Riigikogu Act. Now a word of these paragraphs. The Constitution and the State Budget Act state that a proposal to amend the draft State Budget Act, which implies a reduction in revenue, an increase in expenditure or a redistribution of expenditure provided for in the draft law, must be accompanied by financial calculations showing the sources of revenue needed to cover the costs. The State Budget Act adds that the Riigikogu must not delete or reduce expenses arising from foreign contracts provided for by other laws in the draft state budget or ratified by the Riigikogu. The proposal to amend the draft state budget shall not lead to a deficit, an increase or a reduction in the surplus of the state budget. Pursuant to § 100 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, only amendments which meet the requirements of § 99 (3) of the Act are examined by the Commission. Under this provision, the amendment must include a reference to the part of the draft to be amended and the exact wording of the proposed amendment. Non-compliant amendments may not be included in the list of amendments by the commission. In addition, § 102 (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act obliges the commission to include amendments which are the same as the author and which are essentially related to each other in the list of amendments as a single amendment. In the light of the above provisions, the Commission must decide whether the amendment is compatible with the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu and the State Budget Act, or whether the proposal may not be discussed and listed in substance on the basis of § 100 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. When making a decision, the Commission must assess the compliance of the source of cover with the conditions laid down in the law, while ensuring that the fundamental rights of members of the Riigikogu are not violated, and be convinced that if the amendments are supported by the Riigikogu, they can be included in the text of the draft. All of this should be borne in mind when proposing amendments, and proposals that comply with the above requirements should be put forward. The Socialist Party Group submitted proposals for a second reading of the draft State Budget Act 2014, including an increase in costs, to which the necessary sources of revenue had been presented as separate amendments, but also reflected in each proposal in a consolidated volume (amendment Nos 3 and 295-301). At its meeting on 5 November, the Finance Committee found that such amendments, which were 45, did not comply with § 99 (3) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu or § 20 (1) of the State Budget Act, decided to consider the proposals to be essentially related and to be included in the list of amendments as a single proposal on the basis of § 102 (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. The related proposals refer, in particular, to proposals such as those to be taken into account or voted in plenary, which inevitably require that other proposals be taken into account or voted in order to avoid inconsistencies. At its meeting on 11 November, the Commission reviewed the above substantively related amendments on the basis of the arguments of existing laws on the contentiousness of the source for the separate submission of proposals. The Commission made a decision to include these proposals in the list of amendments as separate proposals together with the decision of the leading committee, but referring to the need to amend the specifications and regulation of the annual state budget law in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. The Committee on Finance also examined all other amendments received and listed them. At the same time, the Commission points out that the Centre Party has once again tabled amendments whose compliance with the so-called basic law of the state budget as regards the sources of cover is debatable due to the lack or inaccuracies of financial accounts. Amendments to the draft State Budget Act are regulated by the State Budget Act and the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. According to them, the initiator of a proposal to amend the draft state budget law, which implies a reduction in revenue, an increase in expenditure or a redistribution of expenditure, must include financial estimates indicating the sources of revenue needed to cover the costs. The sources of cover provided for in the proposal must be both acceptable and possible. It is permissible to refer to the Riigikogu's pending drafts on this subject or to add an amendment to the tax law to the proposal, as well as to include appropriate discussions on a different forecast of revenue from the state budget. The committee ignored the amendments received from the political groups and members of the Riigikogu, with the exception of one partly supported proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of the main reasons for not taking account of this. Firstly, it was intended to reduce the tax gap as a source of cover. The Tax and Customs Board is constantly stepping up its work and is striving to reduce the tax gap, including VAT. One measure reducing the VAT hole is the introduction of an electronic annex to the VAT return planned by the draft Act amending the VAT Act 493. With the effect of reducing the VAT gap, there are also planned restructurings under the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act and the Amendment to the Liquid Fuel Act Act 491. The increase in VAT receipts resulting from these changes has already been taken into account in budget planning, and an even greater reduction in the VAT gap over a year is unlikely to occur. In addition, we ask that specific measures be planned to achieve this objective, but also to present some other sources of cover. At present, opposition parties have not proposed any concrete measures in their amendments to combat tax fraud by the Tax and Customs Board. Secondly, a government reserve is provided as a source of cover. The total cost of the 2013 reserve, together with the surplus from 2012, is EUR 30.38 million. The planned volume for 2014 is EUR 10.09 million, including non-fixed costs of approximately EUR 1.88 million, plus a possible surplus from the previous year. The fixed costs reflect possible costs, reimbursements by the European Commission, by the way, also the purchase of ladder cars to the Ministry of the Interior, as it is not certain whether this cost requirement will be incurred as early as 2014. The reserve of the Government of the Republic has now been used as a cover for a total amount of 6.5 million euros, which is too much. Third, the sale of the land has been offered as a source of cover. Several amendments are covered by the sale of land. In four years, land sales have decreased by an average of 16% per year. The revenue from the sale of land is one-off, and raising the cost level through such revenue will certainly exacerbate the financing problems. The draft budget for 2014 provides for a revenue of EUR 10 million from the sale of land. The reduction compared to last year is 5 million, or 33%. Fourthly, it has also been proposed to reduce the purchase of land as a source of cover for the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, The State is obliged to purchase land of natural value that is intended to be sold to the State. Due to the number of sales applications and the lack of opportunities available to the State, the queue has already stretched to over six years. The draft 2014 is set at EUR 5 million for the purchase of land. Growth, by the way, is 3.5 million compared to last year, i.e. in percentage terms, quite decent. Fifthly, the sums intended to be used for the construction of the presidential castle border garden were also intended as a source of cover. The budget provides for EUR 403000 for the construction of the border garden of the administrative building of the Office of the President. This is a coercion. The investment must be carried out on the basis of § 2 (1) of Decree No 33 of the Government of the Republic of 19 April 2012 entitled "Personal protection measures for object at high risk of attack'. Sixthly, an increase in income tax is also foreseen as a source of cover. In the case of one of the sources of cover, the Social Democrats proposed a relatively sudden increase in this tax. In essence, it was desirable to apply a 26% tax rate to Estonian citizens earning more than 1100 euros a month. This was expected to generate additional 48 million euros from Estonian workers. As the higher rate of income tax was set by the proposers for the annual salary and did not provide for monthly income tax payments on real wages or so-called advance wages, potential additional income would only arise in 2015, when taxpayers declare their income and it becomes clear whose annual salary exceeds this threshold and should be charged with additional burdens. In 2014, there would be no additional revenue in the state budget, even if this amendment had been accepted. The programme of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and the Estonian Reform Party Government Association provides for the continuation of a simple, business-friendly uniform personal income tax and excludes the introduction of progressive income tax. If you look at our tax policy as a whole, the principle of Estonia's long-term tax policy is to tax less on earning and more on consumption, which is a tax policy trend in the OECD and also in most EU Member States. This option will have a less negative impact on the interest in working and earning and will also have a lower negative impact on economic growth. In the same way, excise increases have been put on the table among the amendments as a source of cover. The authors of the amendments would like to increase excise duty rates by an average of 20% per year for the next four years in a row. Since there has been no debate on excise rates lately neither in the committee nor in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, and there are different views in political groups, including coalition parties, on the harmonisation of excise rates for strong and thin alcoholic beverages, I will pass on the opinion of the Ministry of Finance as the initiator of the draft, in the interests of regularity. The Ministry of Finance thought that an increase in alcohol duty of 5% per year was already planned for the next three years. According to the Ministry, the exponential increase in excise duty rates does not bring the expected additional revenue to the budget, but may even reduce revenue as a result of the high growth in the secret market. Compared to other European countries, Estonia is already among the relatively high taxing countries of alcohol. But once again, the political groups clearly have different opinions here. The dividends are also intended as a source of cover. The planning of dividend income takes account of the company's real economic performance and solvency, which is why decisions to increase dividends should certainly be discussed with the general meeting, the supervisory board and the management board and the strategic options of the company monitored. Unfortunately, this has not been done when presenting the sources of the amendments. Now I'm talking about an increase in costs. The budget for school lunches is EUR 14.3 million for municipal schools and EUR 2.2 million for vocational schools. Before increasing the school lunch allowance and extending it to upper secondary school, it is certainly worth holding a political debate on how to do this and whether this support should be universal or needs-based. If we chose a needs-based option, it would allow more efficient use of resources and guarantee free school lunch for students who have problems and who are in need. The proposals were to increase the support fund (educational expenditure). It has been agreed with the Alliance of Educational Workers that part of the salary increases must come through a review of the school organisation. Education expenditure is supported by an increase in municipal school expenditure of EUR 9.5 million, and additional resources can be obtained from other education expenditure lines in order to raise wages. School support systems were proposed. Financing the work of logos and psychologists has always been the responsibility of local authorities; they have done so from their own revenues. In 2011, the obligation to provide social pedagogy services was added, the financing of which was provided by the State to local authorities in 2011, 2012 and 2013. The Ministry of Education and Research has considered it more reasonable to develop a system of regional reference centres in the future in order to ensure the availability of this service. It is not appropriate to provide a separate service in every small home school, as there is not enough staff or consumers of the service to do so. The support specialists received 3.4 million euros from the state budget in 2013. The debate led to the financing of recreational education. The 2014 state budget allocates EUR 15.6 million for recreational education and youth work. I mention this sub-section: support for youth education projects, risky children's programme, open youth centres, youth sport programme. The minimum wage for cultural workers was similarly set out separately in the amendments. In addition to the 5.1% increase in the payroll fund, the Ministry of Culture was allocated an additional amount for the 1.5% increase in the payroll fund. Now I'm talking about child benefits. The aim of the current family policy is to increase the necessity of the family benefit system. First and foremost, those who really need it must receive help. In terms of limited resources, we are using taxpayers' money inefficiently by multiplying them. In 2014, the budget for family allowances will be EUR 101,2 million. For information, I also mention the opinion of the Ministry of Social Affairs on this amendment (i.e. the position on the amendment of the State Family Benefits Act): 'The draft provides that the first and second children will receive six times the monthly child benefit, i.e. the child benefit of the first and second children will be increased from EUR 19,18 to EUR 57,45. According to the explanatory memorandum, tripled support for the first and second children would increase the cost of the state budget by EUR 106 million per year. No sources of coverage of the costs necessary to implement the amendment have been proposed. (At least not correctly. (S. S.) The necessary additional resources have not been taken into account in the country's budgetary strategy for the years 2014 to 2017. The effects of the draft have not been analysed. The explanatory memorandum only mentions the fact that 160,000 Estonian families are affected by the amendment. The explanatory memorandum does not include an impact assessment of the reduction in the risk of poverty in families with children and the impact of the draft on specific groups, such as children with one parent, families with children and other families at greater risk of poverty. The cost effectiveness of the measures has also not been analysed. The government plans to carry out an analysis of the family benefit scheme by 2014 and to draw up a concept of benefits and services for families with children. ' When it comes to the death grant, it has to be said that there is no substantive justification why the State should re-pay the funeral allowance to all applicants, without taking into account the economic opportunities of the deceased. Social benefits are more need-based in nature. The amendment would increase not only direct costs but also indirect costs (staff costs, administrative costs, document processing costs, etc.) as the number of grants simply increases. For information, I refer to the opinion of the Ministry of Social Affairs on this amendment (i.e. the position on the draft law amending the State Death Allowance Act): 'The explanatory memorandum to the draft requires the restoration of the payment of public funeral allowance in the form in force before 1 July 2009 for all families whose families are affected by a sad event. The draft therefore provides for the payment of support to all residents irrespective of the person's financial situation. There is no substantive justification in the draft for the State to pay the funeral allowance to all applicants regardless of their economic potential. The Government of the Republic takes the view that social benefits must be more targeted at people who are in need and who would face difficulties without support. It cannot therefore be considered justified to grant funeral allowances to all, without taking into account the economic opportunities of the deceased. ' Public roads of local governments. Taking the proposal into account would make it difficult for a country to fulfil its obligations in the design of a national road network. The state will be able to ensure that its roads are maintained and the necessary investments will only be made in the state budget out of the funds planned. Local authorities have own resources as the main source of road maintenance costs, complemented by state budget support. As a result, the share of support from local authorities cannot increase sharply. The local authorities' own revenue base has grown rapidly in recent years. Only income tax receipts will increase by 1.34 times by 2014, compared to 2010, by 200 million euros, which has also increased the ability of local authorities to deal with road maintenance costs, among other things. Now I am talking about direct payments. The European Union's 2014/20. In the planning of the 2000 programming period, Member States have been given the opportunity to compensate farmers for the reduction in direct payments from additional rural development funds, i.e. external payments. Direct payments to farmers in the 2013 budget amount to a total of EUR 123.6 million, including transitional national aid of EUR 22.4 million, and EUR 110 million in the draft 2014 budget, i.e. the single area payment. Financing of political parties from the state budget is planned to ensure clear, transparent and coherent funding for political parties. The alternative would be to fund them only through private donations. The funding of political parties has not increased in the last four years. Now I'm talking about questions and issues related to volunteer saviors. In 2014, EUR 0.76 million is planned for this activity. In 2012, 1238 people belonged to the voluntary rescue company, and 1122 volunteers with a certificate were rescued. A total of EUR 170000 has been signed with volunteer commandos, with an average of EUR 350 per command. In 2013, the total number of voluntary rescue commandos is 103. In addition to contracts, fixed technical charges, car repair funds, the costs of vaccinating volunteers, etc., must be taken into account. Speaking of student loans, it remains unclear why there is a need for an increase of EUR 8.64 million in student loans, as proposed by the amendment. Growth in the 2014 budget is more than 100% of EUR 4.13 million. In addition, indirect costs (more student creditors, higher interest costs, etc.) would increase, which in 2009, before the legislative amendment, cost approximately EUR 7 million. This is a benefit for civil servants and public sector employees, i.e. essentially a wage supplement, leading to unequal treatment. Now I'm talking about increasing the fine-tuning fund. Municipal tax revenues, revenues from environmental charges and from the Equalisation Fund are expected to reach EUR 945 million in 2014, i.e. 4.9% of GDP. This is 5% more than in 2008. In terms of GDP, collection is higher than before the peak of the boom in 2003-2007. A number of proposals were made concerning the sites of local governments. The proposals to allocate funds to the cultural, educational, environmental and social interests of local authorities must take into account that the financing of local authorities' investments is generally based on an ex ante analysis of actual needs and the capacity of the beneficiary to invest. A quick overview of smaller, so-called local changes. There was a proposal for a division of the operating costs of the Ministry of the Environment. The aim is to reduce the labour and management costs of the Ministry of the Environment by 15% and to channel this money to three sub-offices with an average increase of 6%. A reduction in the Ministry's budget to this extent would undermine the planned actions and objectives. The draft State Budget Act 2014 has a budget of 42.3 million euros (an increase of 18%) for labour and management expenditure in the area of government. Growth is linked to the restructuring of institutions and the 5.1% increase in wages. There is one amendment to the development of Haapsalu Castle. In order to renovate the castle, the government has submitted a proposal to the European Commission to fund it from the European Union's 2014+ resources. The construction of the Bishop Castle should be financed by looking at the castle as a whole, with renovation and development. There is an amendment to the old Võrumaa. Old Võrumaa has been allocated EUR 125279 in 2014, an increase of 10% compared to this year, just over EUR 11000. In the Commission, the question arose as to why this need for growth came from. A proposal has been made for the restoration of sacred houses. By handing out dedicated support to the temples, one could first turn to the National Heritage Board to clarify whether one or the other of the temples is capable of carrying out the work that is primarily necessary, who does the work and who has not already financed the church for the same purpose from the program of restoration of the temples. In the case of the National Heritage Board, it is unclear who will receive the support. The explanation says to the National Heritage Board. In such a case, the amendment is incorrect as it is a public authority. The National Heritage Board itself shares support for the owners of the sites (EUR 600000 in 2014, an increase of EUR 25000 in 2014). In order to distribute money to theatres, the Ministry of Culture has set up a committee to advise the Minister. Ilmaris's support will increase next year, but it will not solve the real problems and problems of the theatre, which are more generally related to the professional theatre in Narva. The local authorities' section of the road can be financed by actions of the European Union in 2014+ (a measure to develop competition in county centres) if this area is a priority for local government. In addition, 10% of all road maintenance costs can be used from the state budget. There was also an amendment to the port of Sviby. Its reconstruction can also be financed from structural funds for the period 2014+ if necessary (first phase was funded in 2007-2013). There were also proposals on animal protection. The draft budget for 2014 for the Ministry of Agriculture envisages allocating EUR 0.98 million for other ad hoc grants. The explanatory memorandum explains that the tools are also provided for information, advice and training activities for the Animal Protection Society and the Animal Protection Union. Within the limits of the funds allocated for support, the Minister for Agriculture will be able to decide which areas need more funding. The renovation and renovation of Pilistvere Church should be financed through the Ministry of Culture, which has set up a separate programme for this purpose. Various other non-profit organisations mentioned in the amendments will be allocated EUR 380000 in 2014 through several ministries, such as the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The funding will be implemented through open calls for proposals. When it comes to joining the second higher education institution of the Maritime Academy, it has to be said that it does not have to lead to an increase in costs but, in the long term, to cost savings. Finally, after discussing all these amendments, we took the following decisions. We decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 13 November, today (this decision was consensual), to propose that the second reading be stopped (by 6, 2 against, 2 abstentions) and to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 21 November 2013 (this decision was also consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U106	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U107	Dear waitress, The Minister of Education spoke in the Committee on Culture about the fact that between the two readings of the draft state budget law, there is still hope of getting more money for municipal education support. To this end, local governments will be deprived of some responsibilities, such as prison training, hospital training, Estonian language training for Russian-speaking schools, which the state will fund so-called directly, the money released can be used to cover the promise to raise teachers' salaries. To my amazement, while we have indeed received some commitments from the municipalities in the current Amendment No 1 (4), a total of EUR 2.7 million, this money has not been left to raise teachers' salaries, but it has been targeted. Municipal education support has therefore been further reduced by EUR 2.7 million. Thus, in the new year, only 3.3% of local government education support is planned to increase, which makes it quite fairytale to increase wages by 11%. Can you explain how this is possible? Why did you not leave this money to local governments to raise teachers' salaries by simply reducing the other educational responsibilities of the municipalities, and did not the Minister of Education really request this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U108	Thank you, my good colleague. The Minister of Education seeks to raise the salary of Estonian teachers and will do everything in his power to ensure that this happens. He sees three components in the raise. Firstly, additional funding from the state budget in line with the economic opportunities and the increase in tax revenue. Secondly, aligning the performance of the class with that of our closest neighbours, such as Finland, and the ratio between teachers and students. The third component is structural reform, which we will have to do sometime. We need to review the cost of schools and channel more money into teachers' salaries. We have to deal with this third component now, tomorrow and in the coming years. The first component depends on tax revenues and on the growth of the economy. What do you see from the budget? You can see that the budget of the Ministry of Education is much more focused than other ministries. I'll give you an example. The Ministry's budget will be increased by 5.1% in the medium term for wage growth, while the Minister of Education has said that this increase will be nearly 12%.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U109	Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U110	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! The preparation of the country's annual budget is a lasting process for months. It is clear that this draft state budget law, which we are working on today, has been drawn up on the basis of far more rosy forecasts than the current forecasts. Estonia's economic growth has slowed down, given the still error rate, it can be said that it has almost stopped. Compared to Finland, our situation is not very bad, but there is nothing to praise compared to Latvia. Are you sure that this bill we are working on today is consistent with a changed forecast that doesn't make the situation much better? Is this budget realistic? Perhaps you might even ask whether this budget is adequate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U111	Thank you, good questioner! This is a very appropriate question, which is very specifically incorporated into the procedure of the draft state budget law. This is particularly relevant given the figures for the last, third quarter. In the third quarter, economic growth was 0.4% compared to the previous period. I guess that's the way it is. I'd say there's nothing to worry about. I'm gonna start from a distance and try to explain why I don't think there's a reason. If we look at the second quarter, you could say that the third quarter was actually even better than that. If we look at Europe as a whole, we can see that Europe had a recession for six quarters in a row, and now, in the end, there was economic growth. We are a small and dynamic country. Our exports, looking at our potential, are great. We are therefore dependent on our closest partners and on the countries of export destination. Today, our economic growth, especially in the last quarter, has been supported by domestic consumption. I contacted the Ministry of Finance and was interested in macro-economic indicators to see if we should make any changes. I understand that the European Commission is giving us a relatively green path and says that, in fact, the growth of 3.5% will still be real next year. So it's not just us. In this light, I do not think that we need to take drastic measures at this point in time to deal with the draft budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U112	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U113	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Amendment 1, point 5, area of government of the Ministry of Education and Research. Point 2 of this explanation states: "The targeted grants granted to teachers in Ida-Virumaa will increase by 30% in relation to the minimum wage for teachers in Ida-Virumaa, as compared to other teachers, with an increase of 12% in the teachers' minimum wage, or EUR 800, the wage fund for teachers in Ida-Virumaa will increase by EUR 31390. ' I'm not asking about the flawed grammatical structure of this sentence, but I'm asking who are the 31 teachers who get 12% pay. Simple calculations show that for an amount such as EUR 31390 it is possible to add 12% to the salary of only 31 teachers. Whose salary will be increased?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U114	Thank you, my good colleague. I recall an analogous case when the Auditor General was in this Chamber. I myself asked the Auditor General (I will get back to your question right away) that since the management of the state forest is so important, can he then tell me what the volume of forest masses owned by the Estonian state is and how it should be revalued? He answered me very correctly that he was unable to immediately take out one, two, and three details in order to answer such an individual question. I think that on such a specific subject, which is the 12 people, we can make a beautiful inquiry to the Minister for Education and Science. But I'm a good questioner, I agree that it's just a little misspelled in the explanatory memorandum. It's not a pure arithmetical equation that everyone gets 30% more. This is understood by the questioner and understood by all the parties present in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U115	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U116	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! In the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, public transport support for OÜ Väinamere Lines will decrease by EUR 474000. At first reading, Minister Ligi said that he lived in the knowledge that public transport was not decreasing. He said he'd check it out. However, this amount is still in force. What scenario do islanders expect, either an increase in fares or a decrease in the number of trips? I'm not counting the third chance out of here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U117	I don't have any more information than what the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications has told us. At least on the basis of the information currently available to me, there is no indication of an increase in fares. We can certainly clarify this so that there are no differences of understanding or misunderstandings. I would remind you that last year, when we were dealing with the state budget, there were amendments between second and third readings, which increased the subsidies. The national budget will be adopted in December, that is the final budget that we will actually approve. It will then be very clear what the actual rate of aiding the islands will be.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U118	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U119	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Growth in the third quarter of 2013 was 0.4%, with growth of around the same magnitude expected in the fourth quarter. It is known that the construction sector will fall by around 10% next year. We all know that the labour force is leaving the country. On what basis did you forecast growth to be 3.6% next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U120	Thank you. The growth forecast is based on quite a number of sources, from domestic consumption to export volumes. There are quite a few other features between them. Looking at them and at the forecasts of growth for our immediate neighbours, as well as for the whole of Europe, we are still on this path and do not see why we should change this course.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U121	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U122	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! At first reading, I asked Minister Ligi why, at a time when it is necessary to fight tax holes more effectively, the staff costs of the Tax and Customs Board will be reduced by EUR 17000. This is essentially the only public authority where staff costs are reduced. I now see that there is an amendment to increase the expenditure of the Tax and Customs Board by EUR 1.3 million. Did the Committee on Monetary Affairs say whether this amendment applies only to personnel costs or whether it also covers other management costs of the Tax and Customs Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U123	Thank you. There was no mention of this in isolation. I was looking at Homeland Security. The additional funding for all ministries in the field, including the Ministry of the Interior, is 5,1%. Its 5,1% is a certain amount. This amendment actually shows how much of it will be directed to a particular subsidiary. But you are interested in how this money is distributed between people in a sub-office, it must be said that it is already at the suggestion and request of the head of the sub-office.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U124	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U125	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I listened with interest to how nicely you gave me an overview of the administration of the Ministry of Agriculture. But I am interested if not to all our favourite, then at least the favourite of the support group of the Riigikogu Kohvikandi, or the funding of the movement Kodukant next year. So far, this support has also come through the Ministry of Agriculture with the help of the Riigikogu. But the Minister of Agriculture said with a very clever face that this time the money is on the regional minister's line. I'll be honest with you, I don't see this line here. So where's the money hidden? How much is there, and does he even exist in this budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U126	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof! He's not here. Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U127	Thank you. I have no reason to believe that the Minister for Agriculture is wrong. We can unblock the budget alone, and then we will see exactly what line that amount is in the regional minister's budget. I see no reason to doubt the statements of the Minister for Agriculture. I think it's worth believing in the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U128	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Looking at the general government budgetary position in the European Union, we can see that Spain is at the top of the table with its 10,6% deficit, Greece follows with a deficit of almost 10%. Unfortunately, every day Estonian taxpayers' money flows to them from the European aid package. That is our international obligation, that is understandable. But as much as it flows to them, we'll have less. Have there been any positive developments in these countries that could please our taxpayers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U129	Thank you, good questioner! I will dwell on two issues in answering this question. I am talking about the impact on our budget and whether these financial allocations have a real positive output and feedback. First of all, I'll talk about the financial allocations. When we dealt with the EFSF, but also with the ESM draft, several times it was said that we should channel this money to specific financial institutions, perhaps somewhere else, such as teachers' salaries, road maintenance or some other third purpose. We've been over this before, and I'm going to go over it again. Those are two different things. When we are talking about roads or other investments, mainly on the cost side of investments, it is in the sense of the state budget, accounting for a clean cost. If we give money to EFSF or ESM, it is a financial investment at that point. This is not reflected as expenditure in the terms of the state budget. We have also been able to make interim funding for the ESM at the expense of our reserves. Many countries only have access to credit. The second half of the question was whether there are any positive signs in those countries that have had this financial need and have been given money. Yes, it is. By the way, Latvia also received money from the IMF years ago, and today it has paid back the money. When we look at Portugal or Greece (Greece is a model in this logic of giving money and is always given as an example), the decisions they made were not easy. These decisions also caused people to come to the street. After all, they were used to a slightly different life. Now we can say that these decisions were correct in fiscal policy, because the situation has returned to normal or is returning to normal. A year ago, or even two years ago, skeptical people said that the euro area would collapse. The measures taken provide an opportunity to say that the euro area will not collapse. Rather, we see these countries returning to a normal market sooner or later. The logic of the EFSF and the ESM has been to provide financial relief in difficult times when countries are unable to obtain capital from the credit market. If these countries return to a normal financial market, they will, of course, start to take on capital markets the leverage available on the free market at real interest rates and pay back this syndicated loan. I'm positive, and my positivity is based purely on the data that the Troika has passed on over the last few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U130	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U131	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! If coalition politicians consider that free school lunch should only be guaranteed on an ad hoc basis, the question arises as to whether the 78-cent school lunch allowance is sufficient or whether it should be increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U132	Thank you. I think that all issues that are more or less related to the use of state budget resources must be on the table at all times. We can't contrast one thing with another, say we're doing one thing and we're not doing another. We need to look at the whole picture. When we talk about a school lunch, there is a certain amount of money available in the state budget for this measure. We have a number of options: whether we are taking extra money from somewhere, but there is a question of where we are taking it from, continuing on the basis of the available money with the same target group or increasing the target group on the basis of the available money. Those are the odds. It's a discussion place. Today, one of these options has been realised in the budget: this support is paid to the same target group on a universal basis, regardless of whether the child really needs this support, i.e. whether the child's parents would be able to pay for school food themselves. This question is not currently being asked. The question of whether this support should be extended to upper secondary school is a forum for discussion. We should think about what we can do that for. If we offer to take this money from employees' wages, for example, by raising personal income tax to 26%, where the real source of financial income is generated and where this money can be channelled into school food support, then this must be decided by society. Society has to decide whether we will with one hand take the revenues from the working people, so that we can have financial resources and the opportunity to increase, for example, the segment that could get free school food. Similar stories are set aside to support EUR 0.78 or an even larger amount instead of EUR 0.78. I think these are discussion places. I think it would be more appropriate to hold a discussion not during the state budget procedure, but in the intervening period, in the specialised committees. This should be done in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, as such a change will in any case have a specific impact on the area of residence. It shouldn't be done, notionally speaking, a month before the New Year's Eve. There should be a proper debate, a review of all the possibilities we have, and calculations on the table, because there are also options.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U133	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U134	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In Estonia, consumption taxes account for a relatively large proportion of tax revenue. The explanatory memorandum to the state budget for the following year states that this is a targeted direction, as consumption taxes are considered to be less detrimental to economic growth than labour or capital taxes. However, the share of consumption taxes in the European Union is 29%, while in Estonia it is 41%. If consumption taxes are so good for economic growth, why have other Member States of the European Union not chosen Estonia's path? Or maybe they're not that good.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U135	Thank you, good questioner! I believe you are wrong to ask why other European countries have not chosen this path. The OECD countries, as well as many others, are on the verge that a tax on income, a tax on work, is regarded as the most unfair tax. Our direction has been that labour-related taxes should and should be reduced. Since we want a neutral tax policy, then we must increase the tax burden somewhere else, otherwise the state will have no sources of revenue. The conclusion is that if you want to lower direct taxes, you have to increase indirect taxes. This is the place of political decision. You think differently, as I understand your question. The voters have to decide which choice they make. The choice of this coalition is clear: taxes on work must fall.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U136	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Point 10 of the amendment tabled by the Committee on Finance increases the operational costs of the Defence Forces by EUR 163000 for the costs of acquiring Microsoft licences. As we learned a few days ago, quite a number of schools will need money next year to continue using Microsoft's programs. For example, instead of €3756, the schools of Tartu will have to spend €38,000 and the schools of Pärnu will have to pay almost €200,000 extra for using Microsoft's programmes. Is there a solution to this problem in next year's state budget, or do municipalities have to deal with this problem once again? Or should this problem also be interpreted differently at national level and rather move towards free resources in order not to encourage piracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U138	Thank you. Good question. I could quickly say that this issue was not discussed in the Commission. I would not lie to you if I said so, because it was not really discussed in committee. But you raised the question of how you should behave in the future, given that software licenses are getting more expensive. There's a logic to why they're expensive. In fact, there's a lot of people out there working on some kind of program. I am not a big specialist in this area, but I understand that there are always some differences between licensed tax programmes and non-exclusive programmes. If there were no such differences, everyone would use free resources and this problem would have been solved. Consequently, there must be some benefit from using paid software, whether the software is safer or if it has any additional facilities. I read in the press a few days ago that the licence fees for software for schools have also risen. It's a question of resources. If, in the coming financial year, the price of one item of expenditure increases sharply, a decision must be made whether to move to the free market or to take additional money to cover that cost. But if you take it, where is it? I'm not the person who says what's right. If the level of computer use available at school is sufficient, why not? Rather, the question arises as to why you should buy paid software at all. But once again, I am certainly not the person who says how it is right to act in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U139	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U140	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! There has been a long process in relation to the budget. There have also been legislative changes that should generate revenue, but the implementation of which is quite questionable, such as the amendment of the VAT Act and the Income Tax Act. Coalition parties The Reform Party and the IRL have decided that, for the time being, certain legislative changes that should generate benefits, abandon and continue to deal with them in the future or eliminate them at all. As a result, there will be a hole in the state budget of some EUR 24 million, which is covered by coalition parties, without any analysis, offering an asset sale and an increase in dividends. How do you, as chairman of the committee, view such sources of cover?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U141	Thank you. There were some mistakes in your question. I'll fix them. First of all, today we are processing the State Budget Act, not the Income Tax Act or the VAT Act. But since these two are related to the draft law on the state budget, I will come back to your question nicely. Your second mistake was that this amendment will not be really discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs until next week. How can you say today that the moment the amendment is put on the table, there is no analysis behind it? Don't take that right. If we start discussing this proposal and you see that there are no analyses in it, then come out again with constructive criticism.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U142	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. My question concerns maritime affairs, namely maritime education. As we know, there are only four cargo ships currently flying the flag of Estonia, and there were 12 more of them a while ago. There are 60 circa pallets for the operation of Estonian shipowners, which, unfortunately, sail under the flag of a foreign country. My question is about Estonia as a maritime state and about a country providing marine education. It is known that TUT and Estonian Maritime Academy are currently negotiating accession. I understand that the budget is set at EUR 900000 for next year, but I also know the TUT's statement that if they make a merger decision in December, they will need an additional EUR 8 million for investments. Have you discussed this in the Commission and why this money is not in the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U144	Thank you. No, we haven't discussed it. I can't tell you the date, but I think the Marine Support Group of the Riigikogu only recently had an appointment with companies working in this sector. Unfortunately, I couldn't be there myself, but I had an invitation. In any case, this group of interested marine groups has not had to make a concrete proposal to increase the amount in the budget exponentially. If this need exists and this proposal is justified or justified, then the Ministry of Labour should definitely go to this end. In any case, the Maritime Support Group has still not signalled this to the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U145	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question concerns the sale of state land as a source of the amendments. As we know, the sale of state land has been done for more than 20 years and, in my opinion, quite successfully. The current government coalition also has a desire to put an end to the land reform as soon as possible. One part of this reform is the sale of state land. Was there a debate within the Commission on the pace at which we can conclude the land reform or why it was not discussed to increase the revenue from the sale of state land, which could be the source of several amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U147	Thank you. In answer to your question, there was no debate in the Commission. Everything I'm saying now is based on my own knowledge and reflects my understanding. I can say that over the years, revenue from the sale of state land in the state budget has been steadily declining. I also pointed out in my speech that the average reduction in four years was 16% per year. Next year, this revenue will be EUR 10 million, but this year, for example, EUR 15 million. When it comes to the decisions on which plots of land are put up for sale by the State, it must be borne in mind that a number of plots are also transferred to local authorities, so-called free-of-charge, on the basis of applications. But we are, of course, talking specifically about the sale now, because it affects the state budget. In deciding which plots will be sold and at what price, the Land Board will decide. The eternal question of the state and local authorities is that if you sell your property, you have to decide what to do with this money afterwards, either reinvest it or leave it for running costs. I guess every owner has to take a prudent decision. It would be very easy to sell all the property and buy in after some services, in essence there is no office space, but it is rented from someone. The owner of the property, in our example, the state, must decide for himself whether it needs any land and whether it deserves it before it is sold. It may also be that the state is deserving, setting up whatever plans are in the country and selling the land after it has been deduced. There may be a number of reasons and we can talk to the Ministry of the Environment separately on this subject. He's the one who, if my memory doesn't fool me, mostly deals with it. But yes, so far there has been a tendency that this sale has rather decreased. It's a one-off income. Decisions on disposable incomes, however, are a little risky, because at some point this revenue will disappear and you will no longer have that asset. Rather, we should look at larger tax policy decisions that generate lasting revenue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U148	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague Sester! The Supervisory Board of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund proposed that the Government of the Republic impose the unemployment insurance rate of 2.1% next year, including 1.4% for employees and 0.7% for employers. Employers and employees have been talking for a long time about the possibility of lowering the unemployment insurance rate. But in any case, the government also gave a negative answer to the proposal this time. The government is government, but there are smart people in the Commission together. Did you discuss a reduction in the unemployment insurance rate in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U150	Thank you. Once again, I will not go the easy way of resisting by simply telling you that this was not discussed in the Commission. If I said that, I wouldn't lie, but since you brought it up, let's open it up. The rate was 4.2%, at the beginning of this year it was reduced to 3%. Let's look at the summer forecasts for the unemployment fund. The income of the Unemployment Insurance Fund is 180 million euros and costs almost 120 million, namely 119 million euros. The total amount of assets, taking into account all provisions and the total amount of assets, is EUR 588 million. Growth is 11%. But there are always pros and cons on every subject. In favour of the proposal on your question, it is certainly clear that the assets of the unemployment fund have grown on an ongoing basis. This is already 2.5 times larger than in 2009 at the height of the crisis. Forecasts indicate that the volume will continue to grow. These were the arguments in favour of taking this decision or, for example, stating that we should discuss the issue of a further reduction of the unemployment contribution rate, even though we have already reduced it once from 4.2% to 3%. But there are arguments against it. In fact, we still lack an in-depth analysis of the long-term cyclical functioning of the unemployment fund. I am ignoring the fact that, from a legal point of view, it is also important to bear in mind that we may be able to increase and lower the rate of payment, but someone has to pay that payment. It is very difficult to deal with day-to-day planning in the event of a variable payment rate. It must also be taken into account that in 2015 there will be a reform of working capacity. Then, in fact, the nature of the unemployment fund's work will change to some extent, the number of users of the service will actually increase, the services provided will change, more will come. Let us not forget, too, that in 2021, the financing of employment services from structural instruments will cease at all, and this whole system will have to be reviewed. Maybe everything always has pros and cons. The percentage has fallen and, in fact, has fallen strongly, from 4.2% to 3%. In my opinion, this percentage will continue to fall in the future, but I do not think it will happen next year. Rather, perhaps it would be possible to collect some fat at the expense of future measures in a good way and then really go down the road. That is my opinion, the Commission did not discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U151	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U152	Thank you. My question is about what happened yesterday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi came here, who said that he has taken into account that the new regulation of VAT on company cars will increase the budget revenue for the coming year, but now that the Group of the IRL and Reform Party has decided not to proceed with this change quickly, there will be a hole of EUR 24 million in the budget and he will not accept the other revenues offered. He said we'd have to cut costs. I wonder if this analysis, according to which the new VAT regulation for company cars would certainly cost EUR 24 million to the budget next year, is competent. Do we have to take into account the fact that a hole of EUR 24 million is now coming into the budget, or could this analysis be reviewed? Maybe the Ministry of Finance was overreacting with the expected return.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U153	Thank you. Firstly, I have no reason to question the accounts of the officials of the Ministry of Finance. They must still have been very clear on the basis of the number of cars, the value of transactions, etc. I think that the underlying documents and the underlying material to calculate what is either the cost or the income of one or the other measure are very clearly determined in the Ministry of Finance. I'm not a member of that working group myself. In fact, there are thousands of such expenditure and revenue figures in the budget, not hundreds. I have no reason to believe that this figure is wrong. There is, however, another aspect of the question. If such a change is to come, and I do not see why it should not come, then a hole of EUR 24 million, if we call it that, will arise if the entry into force is fully postponed from next year to either 2015 or later. If this change were to take effect earlier than this, for example in the middle of the year, after nine months or at any other time of the year, it would be arithmetically possible to calculate what the tax hole is in that case. That's the other part of the question. Thirdly, we need to talk about different sources of coverage. Whether this change comes into force in the middle of the year or next year, or, let's say, not enforce this year, there will in any case be a tax hole, it will be EUR 12 or EUR 24 million. It is clear that no amendment can be made unless you really see where you can find a cover for it. I think that, at the beginning of next week, we will have real amendments on the table in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It cannot be the case that criticism is made against the other authors of the amendments, saying that how, in the procedure of the draft law on the state budget, sources of cover, for which there are no analyses, can be presented, and then in the same way. Certainly the amendment has been formulated by the beginning of the week and it will then be very clear what it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U154	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U155	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'll still be back for school food. Over the last few years, many families have suffered a marked deterioration in their livelihoods. As a result, school lunch is the only warm meal a day for many children. Unfortunately, upper secondary school students have been deprived of the school lunch allowance. Why did the Committee on Monetary Affairs not support the amendment aimed at providing school lunch support for upper secondary school pupils as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U156	First of all, welcome! We've never spoken to each other before. I thought you read the question down nicely on the paper. But there's no problem! We will come back to this issue again. I answered this question fairly thoroughly, at least I tried to answer it, and I will try to answer it again. We are faced with the question of whether to increase the support that is currently 78 eurocents or to increase the target group that could receive free school food. Both options really cost the state budget. We need to decide which sources of cover this money comes from and whether such a measure would be necessary at all. These are actually the decision-making places. We may have different opinions on this, of course, but I will tell you how I personally feel about it. I must admit to you that there are quite a number of questions that have been put in this Chamber today, and I think that the questions that are still being asked have not been discussed in the Commission because they were not specifically raised or pointed out by the authors of the amendments. But when I talk about my personal opinion, I think that in the case of grants, including school food support, the state must become more needs-based. This is a fundamental change in the system of grants, not only for school food support, but also for all other subsidies. I think this will give the country the opportunity to focus the money more specifically on those who actually need it. Let us not forget that the amount of money is limited. I believe and think that we could bring this matter up and hold a separate discussion, why not discuss it as a crucial national issue in the context of various support measures. Why not discuss it? The voters can also make a decision in the elections that they support. I've given up my opinion. I think the system should become needs-based. If we had enough money in our hands so that we could do whatever we wanted, we could start thinking differently. But right now, our wallet isn't big enough to allow everyone to have it all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U157	Mart Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U158	Thank you. I'm gonna go back to school for lunch. In fact, the sectoral committees have been working on this for years, and the Committee on Culture has also considered different options. I am not even talking about increasing or reducing the target group, but just that the current estimated cost of school lunch is 78 cents. An important partner of the state The Cooperation Council of the Municipalities came up with a very modest proposal to raise this estimated cost to 86 cents in order to slightly compensate for inflation in previous years. This issue was probably also discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This was discussed in the negotiations between the municipalities and the state, but this very modest proposal was also rejected. The cost of this proposal is estimated by me to be around EUR 1.3 million. In any case, this would have helped local authorities to offer free school lunch. How did the Commission discuss this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U159	Thank you. I must say that you have never spoken about the sources of cover on this issue. Let us also return to this, let us return to what you plan to do one, two, or three. You have to look at these things together. The amendment is on this table. While we were talking earlier about possible need-based subsidies, one problem was the real sources of cover. For several sources of cover, a majority of the Commission considered that they could not be supported. The reasons were different. On the one hand, they relate to what Aivar Sõerd said that such a source of cover as had been proposed should not be dealt with at all. For some of the amendments, the reasons were purely political. If you offer to increase one or the other support or anticipate a new type of cost, you must always think about where we will take the money. Only then can we actually assess whether it makes sense to do what we lose or what burden we impose on the taxpayer. Let me give you a simple example. Who of us would not want to be built into Tallinn in a short time, for example in a year and made more secure? That's what we all want. However, it is a question of our financial opportunities. So we've been building this road by a mile for ten years, but we're finally gonna get it done. The goal is to complete the road.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U160	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U161	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U162	My question, too, is about the sources of cover, when the chairman of the committee has already decided to exchange views on this issue. In fact, it is not the sources of cover, it is the choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U163	I'm asking why this is the choice. The triple of child benefits costs approximately EUR 110 million. Why would a government union prefer to reduce the rate of income tax rather than increase child benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U164	Thank you. Look how interestingly you put together a new paradigm on your question! I do not agree with the basic principle of the question; I would not prefer one to another. If we look at earning income, it is very right that the government has been on the road for years to leave as much income as possible in the employee's pocket. However, I do not agree with the argument that child benefits are not dealt with. You know that child benefits rose this year and that they will rise again in 2015. If you repeat as a mantra that for ten years nothing has been done with child benefits, I do not agree with that. You're saying child support has to be tripled. It can be said that since the third child, the state has already quadrupled the child benefit. I don't agree with you putting everything together and saying pick one or the other. The country has done both.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U165	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U166	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I ask about the amendments. We now have 402 amendments, one of which has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, consisting of 38 points. Of these 402, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has supported one and it has supported one in part, while the rest of the proposals have been bullshit in the opinion of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The authors of the amendments include the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Social Democrats, the Centre Party, Juku-Kalle Raid, Andres Herkel, Neeme Suur, Kalvi Tõik, Kalev Kotkas. There are no proposals from any coalition groups here. Why is that? Is it because coalition groups are not in a position to table their proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U167	Thank you, good manager. Good questioner! If you're gonna jerk off the budget that's come from the Government of the Republic, then... Good questioner, can you hear me? Thank you. If you take this budget and take a look at it, you'll see that it comes from the coalition agreement of coalition parties. You can't look at these things apart. Not only politicians, but also experts, analysts and others have taken part in drawing up the budget. Actually, it's the final document that's on your desk. It is up to you to decide whether this document is good or bad. I believe that changes will be made during the procedure. As you yourself have noted, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, made quite a number of changes to this draft. I do not rule out any further changes to be made before the adoption of the budget at third reading. But the general direction in which the country should move is that in the overall picture of the budget there is a coalition, their political groups and the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U168	Good waitress! Before you start answering, I say that, as far as I know, the two architects who designed the Riigikogu building wanted these triangular elements in this building to mean that a member of the Riigikogu must be sharp and precise. I have, good colleagues, a request to keep such accuracy and sharpness in my questions and in addressing people. Please, good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U169	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U170	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, first of all, thank you very much for your very thorough answers. Be nice, dispel my suspicions! I did not realise that I had to check whether the laws adopted in the summer were all financially reflected in the 2014 budget. Dispel my doubts and say that the law that we have adopted together and on the basis of which the study loan for parents of children with deep disabilities is deleted is covered by the 2014 budget, which is where the money is. From 1 January 2014, this law will enter into force, but I did not see that money in the budget. Do you nevertheless confirm that this money exists?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U171	Thank you. The Chairman of the Monetary Commission has now been put in a role where he needs to know all the thousands of pages by heart. I have a feeling, however, that the question you asked me is a little familiar. The same issue has been raised in the Commission and it is to be proposed separately. You don't expect me to be able to take it out of a thousand sub-sections really quickly and say, for example, this is sub-section 37/1. I dispel your doubts by saying that all adopted laws, which will apply in the financial year and which have a positive or negative impact on the state budget, must be reflected in the state budget, whether on the revenue side or on the expenditure side. If, as a member of your Riigikogu, you have discovered a law whose expenditure is not provided for in the budget, you will report it operationally. The third reading is still ahead and it is certainly very interesting to ask the Ministry of Finance, who has put together the draft, but also the ministries of the sector, who have been in contact with the Ministry of Finance on this matter. I assure you that it certainly cannot happen that some cost that is prescribed by law will not be reflected for some reason. I am not a member of the Committee on Culture, but I have heard from the Chairman of the Committee on Culture that one type of expenditure is being dealt with and is coming to the Committee on Monetary Affairs before the third reading to make this change. I cannot say that this was the example you gave me, but in any case, the chairman of the Committee on Culture has given me such an identity.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U172	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U173	Dear waitress, You can continue on the same subject. The Social Democrats and the Centre Party have shown that several of their proposals for improvement are covered by EUR 403000, which is currently planned for the construction of a fence in the President's Office. Please explain why you did not consider this source of cover. Indeed, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, it became clear that the budget was not planned to compensate parents of children with a deep disability for a student loan under the law. This amount must now be found somewhere between second and third readings. Would you accept the failure to build this fence in order to meet such a need, or would the fence of President Ilves be a top priority, even though President Meri and President Rüütel did great without this fence?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U174	Thank you. You read the question on the computer so quickly that in the meantime the words were partly lost, but it's okay, I was able to sort of track what you asked for. You had at least a couple or three questions pressed in this minute. But let's try to start over. First, the fence of the president's office. Do we need an investment of EUR 403000 when we process the 2014 budget? At the beginning of the procedure for the draft act, I said that EUR 403000 has been earmarked for this fence and that it is a forced investment. This obligation stems from the previously adopted regulation 'Personal protection measures for an object at high risk of attack'. We can discuss whether or not this object is at great risk of attack, but in the context of next year's budget, we will actually comply with a regulation adopted earlier. Secondly, you wanted to put an equal sign between the fence in the President's Office and some kind of support measure. I don't agree with you. Don't put that equal sign, it's arbitrary. I do not agree, of course, with such an arrangement. Since it is not right to put an equal sign between them, it is very difficult to comment on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U175	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I looked closely at the amendments to the state budget for next year. The first is your Commission's co-arming amendment, which consists of 38 proposals. A few years ago, there was a great deal of talk in this very hall about the fact that cluster billing is not the right way. The governing board of the Riigikogu also condemned the cluster drafts. Why, then, has the Committee on Monetary Affairs now whistled to the admonitions of the Riigikogu's board and brought a cluster proposal to the table?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U177	Thank you. That's a good question. If you look at the full content of this amendment, you will see that it is, first of all, very technical in nature and, secondly, very much envisages a change in salaries in the administrative areas of the Estonian Ministry of Industry. The majority of this amendment is relatively clear and with a common focus, which did not cause any problems in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. There were no such perilous amendments this time, for which our competence would have been inadequate. I will give an example of the draft law on artificial insemination and embryo protection, which was pending a few years ago, where we would certainly also need the assistance of the Social Affairs Committee to see whether such measures are necessary or not in the state budget for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U178	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U179	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! One of the objectives of the field policy of the Ministry of Education and Research is to organise the school network. However, the audit "Education Investment Management" just completed by the National Audit Office reveals that the state does not really know exactly how many schools are needed in Estonia. I am asking why budgetary resources are being directed towards an area for which there is no clear national vision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U180	Thank you. I think that visions arise in cooperation between schoolteachers, local authorities and the state. The activity as such works, the schools are up, there are running costs, not only teachers' salaries, but also electricity, and there are other administrative costs. I think that structural reform in the future is inevitable. After all, we are saying, looking back over the last ten years, I think it is not a question of whether there is opposition or coalition, that students have been reduced by about a third. It's a reality. We're burning up a lot of physical space, so-called concrete, even though the money could actually be paid to the teachers. The Minister of Education has pointed out the ratio between the cost of teachers' salaries and the money given to the entire sector compared, for example, to this relationship right here in our vicinity in Finland. We're going to have a very small share of all the money for wages. But I'll come back to the schools. I understand there's an economic side here on the one hand, but an emotional side on the other. Many local authorities say that if the school disappears, life will stop and that there will be other problems. But it is such a longer process, local authorities as schoolkeepers, and the state must negotiate. Local authorities also have a great deal to do in this work. However, this certainly does not mean that until there is a final plan of what the optimal number of schools could be in Estonia, let us not put financial support on it. I'm sure it wouldn't be that conceivable.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U181	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U182	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! While last year's draft state budget law was the main issue of electricity prices, this year's main issue is children. I understand that the coalition has nothing against supporting children either, but the sources of cover offered by the opposition simply do not fit. If the coalition wants to improve the situation of children in Estonia, why does it not submit good proposals with a suitable source of cover for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U183	Thank you. But the coalition has submitted. If you look at next year's activities relating to children, you will see that there are different support measures, but also a number of other measures. It cannot be said that the state does not deal with what is related to children. We have not talked about this subject, but I think it may be appropriate to mention it now, too, that it is possible to have a tax refund in Estonia from the second child. That's a pretty good amount a year, over 300 euros. Don't forget it. I was just looking at the calculations. In fact, the state gives a clear signal to society that there is a need to increase the number of births. It is also a big deal that 30 euros per month, starting from the second child, will be returned by the state at the end of the year when the tax return for the following year is completed. It cannot be said that the state is not dealing with the issue of children.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U184	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U185	Thank you very much. The 2014 state budget includes funds to combat poverty in the world. I am in favour of pursuing a value-based foreign policy and I am in favour of giving the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the money for this, although I would, of course, like to know exactly where and what it is going for. But my question is not about foreign countries, but about our country. How exactly does the reduction of poverty take place in the Republic of Estonia, i.e. what amounts relate to the reduction of poverty in Estonia, which affects 63000 children or even one fifth person according to the annual report of the National Audit Office?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U186	Thank you. There are a number of measures to this end. Some of the measures relate to the labour market, they create opportunities for new jobs, and there are measures relating to the income generated and the majority of it left in the hands of the person. These measures need to be viewed in a complex way. For example, in 2012, one in six Estonian children lived in relative poverty and one in eleven children basically lived in deep material deprivation. On the one hand, we are talking about the measures to be taken, on the other hand, the grant programme is here. Here, too, the ruling coalition has gone this way and keeps this line that only those who need it really must receive help. It cannot and does not have to be universal aid. I think these measures will be dealt with. There must always be some reference data. On the basis of the information I have, I can say that we have basically the same indicators as in other countries of the European Union as in the case of child poverty. We're not happy about that, of course, but there's always some kind of background system. If we come back to labour market issues, we need to remember the old, well-known question of fish or fin. It should be possible to use the fishing line instead. When a person comes back to the labour market, he or she should feel that he or she is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U187	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U188	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, After your answer to my first question, I really have no desire to develop a dialogue with you in this Chamber. But I made a promise to the Special Committee on State Budget Control that I would ask you the next question. This occurred after we went to the booth of confiscated contraband at the departure hearing and it turned out that these warehouses are a rather difficult situation across Estonia. In almost all parts of Amendment 1, point 34, certain resources are transferred to the ICAS. What do you think? Do you see the possibility that these funds could also be used by the RKAS to manage these confiscated smugglers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U189	Thank you. This is a very specific question which is very difficult to answer. As a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you know that this issue was not at issue in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I think we should discuss this with the Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of the Interior. I don't have one answer for you today, should I do exactly that? I don't have any information to send a clear signal to one side or the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U190	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U191	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I am asking you about responsible monetary policy. As we know, the state budget is either in deficit for the fourth or fifth year. It doesn't really matter. However, according to the draft State Budget Act, the deficit will increase by 24 million euros due to the cancellation of the change in the value added tax (VAT) of cars. As Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you have offered to cover the sale of state assets and the withdrawal of dividends from state companies. Is this a responsible monetary policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U192	Thank you. Yes, I think it is a responsible monetary policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U193	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U194	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! I wanted to ask you about child benefits, but I'm going back to my first question, which you basically didn't answer. In my opinion, the task of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was to prepare for the second reading of the draft to deal with this issue. First of all, the Tax and Customs Board is not in the realm of the Ministry of the Interior, we are talking about the Ministry of Finance. In the first-reading draft, the staff costs of the Tax and Customs Board decreased. We are talking here about the need to deal with tax holes. If the draft sent to second reading added certain amounts to the Tax and Customs Board, do they also provide for an increase in staff costs? There's not a word in the explanatory memorandum. For example, in the case of the PBA, there has been talk of an increase in staff costs, and there is no mention of this in the case of the Tax and Customs Board. I am concerned about whether we will soon be more able to fight tax holes if we reduce staff costs in this organisation for several years in a row.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U195	Thank you. We're worried about the same thing, about a reduction in the tax gap. I can tell you that next year there will be an increase of at least 5.1% in this sector, the Ministry of Finance. I do not rule out that this percentage may be higher in the Tax and Customs Board, it is up to the Minister for Industry to decide. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in the last year that we have begun to pay more attention to the tax gap. I think that makes sense. True, this hole is over 400 million euros and VAT accounts for more than 50% of it. I think that the drafts that have been or are coming to the Riigikogu in the near future will help to reduce the tax gap. This reduction is not only dependent on personnel costs; the laws must allow existing staff, whatever the level of salary in the institution, to carry out their work. I would like to give you an example of the fact that the Committee on Monetary Affairs is dealing with a draft which gives the Tax and Customs Board the opportunity to take certain consideration decisions. For example, fraud has recently increased in the fuel sector. In the case of such fraud, it is not thousands but hundreds of thousands, if not millions of euros. I am not going to be very specific, but this bill gives the Tax and Customs Board the power to detain specific goods (this option was not previously available) and to carry out certain operations in this regard. So we're also using the law to reduce the tax gap. I would also like to give you an example of the much-needed cross-border trade on which the law has now been passed. We had a hell of a debate about that, too. The purpose of this bill was to improve the collection of taxes into the budget. Analysts showed that this trade was actually a source of livelihood for many people near the border. I want to say that dealing with the tax hole must be our priority not only today, but also in the future. Its success depends not only on staff but also on possible changes to the law. I come back to your first question. Yes, this sector, the Ministry of Finance, received 5.1% extra money. The way in which people's wages are raised there is already the responsibility of the Ministry and from there on the administration. I know that the Head of the Tax and Customs Board has said in his presentation in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that he found last year and has also found funds to raise the salaries of his employees this year. This was possible through restructuring. Duplication of work has been reduced. So there are a number of activities planned to deal with the tax hole. If you wanted to know if it was being dealt with and if the money was being allocated, then I say yes, it is being dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U196	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U197	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, thank you very much for your comprehensive answers. I have a question for you too. In other countries, agriculture ministries are very active in educating consumers. We have had problems with the realisation of our produce for several years, for example, problems with beef. At the same time, there is a complaining lack of lamb, and less and less black bread is eaten. All these problems are covered by the "Estonian Food" programme. Have you talked to the Minister for Agriculture about taking urgent action? The budget currently provides very little funding for 'Estonian food'. Can there be more funding for the 'Estonian Food' programme in the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U198	Thank you. It is good that members of the Riigikogu who pay attention to different sectors are sincere and I say this to the members of the Riigikogu with different interests. That was a very specific question you had. The Minister of Agriculture has given an overview of the top-ups, where the subsidies go, but he did not specifically stop at promoting Estonian food and increasing its consumer population. That doesn't mean we shouldn't be discussing this. If you want to know if it is possible to make further changes to the state budget, then yes, it is. It is also possible for the group to propose amendments to the third reading. But it would be good to negotiate with the Minister for Agriculture what this could be done, and if there are good sources of cover, you should know what the expected final result is. If these things are clear, I believe that no one will object if the sprat and other products produced in Estonia, which are very specific to us, but actually all the other products produced in Estonia, would be competitive and would find the largest consumer community possible. I think this is something that needs to be dealt with. For example, EAS provides marketing support to companies and trade fairs support, but what are these grants really meant for? After all, they are designed to ensure that Estonian companies, Estonian producers, are found. I think this action is very sensible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U199	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U200	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I will continue with Kalev Eagle's question of ferry traffic. You commented on it in such a way that there was nothing wrong, as a result of political debates last year, EUR 600000 was added to the increase in shipping traffic. I'll tell you enough information that this extra money has not been received to this day, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is of the opinion that there is no need to order an extra trip. The question arises as to whether it makes any sense for us to discuss the budget here if the officials know and decide how it should be, and so it does. Or do you have a different opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U201	Thank you. No, I don't have a different opinion. My opinion is very clear that we are giving here a political guideline, which we are formulating in the budget, and executive power, or ministers, must comply with this guideline, both they themselves and their authorities. If we consider that, for some reason, the budget has not been met, then the Minister must be asked why this has happened. I am absolutely convinced that the people have chosen us here to play this role in order to give clear guidance on how we will see the state's financial opportunities next year in terms of revenue and expenditure. I will say so much more about subsidies that all types of public transport supported by the state will increase. While the total amount of subsidies in 2013 is EUR 62.5 million, in 2014 EUR 65,5 million. There's a clear slope here. It has also been pointed out that there will be an increase in train traffic in relation to new trains, the construction of new passenger ships to connect to the smaller islands, etc. Compared to this year, there will be an increase in subsidies next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U202	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U203	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Because of your comment on what you did to one of the previous questioners, I apologize in advance for writing the question on the tablet and reading it now. Much has been said about the transparency of the state budget and, unfortunately, it is constantly decreasing. If, years ago, we were able to see how much money would be allocated to, for example, the IRL's strongly linked owners' central union, then now we need to look for these figures in the documentation register of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Why does the transparency of the state budget decrease every year? Is it really purposeful to make sure no one knows where the money is going?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U204	Thank you. I understand you don't want any comments from me. You only want me to comment on the question at the end of the speech, and I will give it to you. I think the links in the first part of your question were arbitrary. If a member of a political party belongs to an organisation, does that mean that it is politically biased? In my opinion, this is an arbitrary conclusion. But I now come to the essence of your question, which was about the transparency of the state budget. I must say I agree with you. I agree with you that it is difficult to monitor the state budget. The National Audit Office also pointed out that one thing is at the moment of the adoption of the State Budget Act, but then it is necessary to look backwards at the actual costs, because in the course of the year some expenditure was not paid, perhaps there were some minor changes. A subsequent activity report is also important. The state or the Ministry of Finance has taken a course to increase this transparency, and I believe that these are not just words. There has been this criticism before. In this information technology age, I think that there could be more and more links in the texts, under which graphs and analyses would be opened. Of course, it is always a question of how thorough the budget must be. It is a permanent question of what level we must go to. To give you an example, if one ministry says that it wants to tender for this and this amount next year, should we then be able to reach this level of accuracy in order to determine how many procurements and when it will do, and what are its expected limits? If we decide that this level of detail is necessary, it is our decision. But I agree with the criticism that it is difficult to monitor the budget until the letter that has been used there is such that some people need to put on glasses to read such finely written text. I think the Ministry of Finance will definitely have work to do with this in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U205	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U206	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! The website of the Riigikogu shows that several and several organisations have sent a request to the Committee on Monetary Affairs that their activities be supported. Did you review these requests in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and what position did you reach?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U207	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U208	Thank you. Good question. Today, it is normal for information systems and publicity to see all the proposals. In future, the Committee on Monetary Affairs will certainly only vote on specific amendments from political groups, members of the Riigikogu or the Committee on Monetary Affairs itself. But in answer to your question, there really came a lot of suggestions from many organisations, the Broken Ryeflower Society, to organisations associated with the President of the Republic, I don't even remember them all. We have decided that we will come back to these proposals before the third reading, then we will review our options and the real content of these proposals. At second reading, we are simply stating the fact that such amendments have arrived for us, but we have not yet taken into account their content.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U209	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question concerns the pay gap between women and men. As you know, this gap is 30%, the largest in the European Union. Will next year's budget help us reduce the pay gap? Have you spoken in your committee about the measures that will contribute to resolving this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U210	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U211	Thank you. The subject is topical. We have not specifically spoken about this in the Commission, but this topic is topical in Estonian society. I do not have any materials on this issue here, but I have read about improving me if I am wrong that there is no wage gap in the public sector at the moment with similar work, as is the case in the private sector. In the public sector, we cannot talk about the pay gap that otherwise exists in society. This is, of course, a forum for discussion about the levers the country has in order to get involved in this problem in the private sector. I think that there are not many of these levers, there is only an explanatory and compelling position. I might be wrong, maybe there are some levers. I don't know how to say it so fast. But I remember that in the public sector, there is no difference as you said.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U212	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good chairman of the committee! You said at the end of last month's national broadcasting programme, 'The Forum', that there are no families in your community who are unable to provide their children with an education of interest. As your elected representative from Tallinn, you may not really know such people, but I know several such people in Viljandi and Järvamaa. In addition, there are 63000 children living in poverty in Estonia and 45,000 children living in absolute poverty. These are very large numbers. Your coalition partner promised to support the education of interest, but that was also cancelled. Where should the parents of these 63,000 children find the means to provide their children with an education of interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U213	Thank you. Let's start from the beginning, as usual. First of all, your claim must be dismissed. This Forum show definitely needs to be reviewed, but I don't want to believe that I would have claimed that there are no people in my community who need no help in this context. This idea certainly needs to be improved. My point has been, I repeat, that this is not about someone's circle of acquaintances, but about the need for grants to be determined on an ad hoc basis. This has been our opinion on child benefits; the same could be said about school food support in the future. This is the case with the system of state subsidies, I think, only possible, because the country does not have such financial resources to share 'forever and ever' to everyone. Is that necessary? I am still of the opinion that for people who do not have a high income, this money is certainly much more necessary, even though one family and the other are paid exactly the same amount. That is the logic of necessity. What are the national measures that will enable families to emerge from poverty, we have already stopped today. On the one hand, there is the fish we talked about earlier, that is, real support for buying groceries, etc., and on the other hand there is a line, or action that favours wage growth and job creation. Often the problem is that there is no job. Although unemployment has fallen over time, it remains a problem. These are the measures that the state can take. There are, in fact, many of the measures that a country can take to bring people back to the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U214	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U215	Thank you. First of all, I would like to support the good chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I don't remember the claim you were given on this Forum, either, but I do remember that there was talk of a possible need-based conversion of school food into future food. But my question relates to my previous question, to which you answered part of the question. You specifically asked me where I take it that the Coalition has proposed to increase the sale of property or dividends in order to cover the tax gap caused by the amendment of the VAT and income tax law. That is what I take from the press, where such claims have been attributed to you. In fact, there is another point going through the press: this could be compensated, for example, by not returning the dividend income from Greek bonds to Greece. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U216	Thank you. I'm having a hard time commenting on that right now. I read this proposal by Aivar Sõerd that appeared today in Delfi, let's say, half-whistle. I do not have a position on this at the moment. At an earlier meeting in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we discussed European repayments specifically in the case of Greece (this was not related to any source of cover, but we discussed it simply in substance). At the time, the Ministry of Finance said that we have received revenue, that an agreement has been made and that money should be paid. If we start putting it off, for example, in 2015 or later, we will not lose our obligation to pay, this obligation will not go away. I really don't know how to comment anymore. There can certainly be an interesting discussion on this issue, perhaps we will develop it further in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Perhaps further decisions can be made and new sources of cover can be found if the Commission considers this right and the initiator of the draft proposal supports it. The initiator of the bill must agree with this in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U217	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U218	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! To clarify so much, the Social Democrats have proposed to allocate EUR 900000 to the TUT in order to be able to better conduct their accession to the Maritime Academy, unfortunately this proposal has not been taken into account. My second question, however, is about yesterday's debate on raising the state fee for the registration of trailers and cars. On the agenda of this week, we also have an increase in the state fee for archive notifications from domestic to €10 and from non-national to €25. Is this 5% increase and the EUR 650000 that is being raised so important from the point of view of the state budget that it is necessary to make people's lives more difficult and financially difficult?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U219	It makes it easier for me to talk about archive communications, as this has been a debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I've come to realize that these fees are out of date, they're out of date. The costs associated with this whole process have increased. I have not been at the centres that have been held over the registration fees for trailers, because they were held in another Commission. I can only rely on what the initiator of the bill said to change the fees. I don't have any new information to show that we should behave differently. If the initiator, or ministry, has said that these fees should be such and have justified it, then I have no reason not to believe it and to take different decisions. This decision is based on an analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U220	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U221	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Sven! I've already asked you if you're ashamed, and I'm gonna ask you again today. If the Social Democrats make an amendment and say that the source of cover is, for example, money from the sale of property, or if we make an amendment and say that as a source of cover we see greater dividends from public companies, these sources of cover are not suitable. But if you have a budget gap and you are forced to make corrections, you can elegantly take exactly the same sources of cover that are not suitable for the opposition, but in your case, it is as good as it is now that the VAT change for cars has fallen off. Sven, aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U222	Thank you, good Aivar! No, I'm not ashamed. I'll explain why I'm not ashamed. As regards dividends, I pointed out, for example, that the planning of dividend income must take account of the specific economic performance of companies, their future prospects for development and their solvency. Such dividend decisions must generally be negotiated with the general meeting and the supervisory board, and I do not exclude that the management board too. Speaking to the general meeting, he can give signals to the board and board of directors, he can give feedback, monitor the strategic options of the company. These amendments, which have come to the Riigikogu from the Government of the Republic, are not based on a hypothetical amount, such as 10, 20 or 30 million, which should be taken from Estonian business, Estonian state companies. These proposals are based on specific companies. It is not possible to take dividends from a company, either because it does not generate such profits or because it is planned to reinvest profits in any object or increase its turnover in any of the following years. In this case, no income can be taken out of this company. Once again, if anyone wants to use extra revenue, it has to be indicated where it can be taken from, and there has to be some information about why he thinks it is possible. If coalition groups also come to the Committee on Monetary Affairs and say that they believe that additional revenue will be needed to make tax changes next year, they will have to show where this revenue comes from. It can't be that we're just using extra revenue. I think we will be discussing this in the Commission at the beginning of the week. The rules must be the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U223	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U224	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When you introduced the procedure to the draft, you said that the ministries, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Culture have made various amendments, but they did not find support in the Commission. As we know, this year the accounts of different ministries have a wide range of cost items. We can see that similar cost units have now emerged, such as the computer class of one school or another, one or the other swing field in one municipality or another, etc. Are you sure there will be no such objects in the state budget next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U225	No, I'm not sure about that. The budget is still in the process. We are not adopting the budget today; we have about a month to deal with this. If the discussion between all members of the Riigikogu comes to the conclusion that one or the other local government object should be supported, then at third reading we will be able to do so. The budget is a living document and we can make changes to the budget until the third reading, which will take place in mid-December. After that, the budget is really locked. Then he is already a guide to the enforcement bodies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U226	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U227	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! My question is driven by the question of Mr Riisalu. If a tax hole occurred, you did an analysis within one night, not one day, but one night, and found that you were taking the money. I'm curious which state enterprise you're taking it from.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U228	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U229	Thank you. It wasn't a night at all. I have made comments to journalists today that work is actually ongoing to cover a possible tax hole, work is being done with coalition groups and ministries. At the beginning of next week, we will come back to this issue and see what opportunities are. At least the preliminary information suggests that certain additional dividends can be withdrawn even without harming the companies. Dividends are also subject to income tax on them. At the beginning of the week, we can discuss whether this is necessary or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U230	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! Last year, 765 euros per person was spent in the Estonian health care system, while 3,500 euros were spent in Germany at the same time. If you like the percentages more, then I say that 6.1% of GDP was spent on health care in Estonia and 11% of GDP in Germany. This percentage of GDP that goes to health expenditure is an important indicator that is taken into account everywhere. Can you tell us how we're doing next year? How could this amount change and how could this percentage change? The point is that Germany is undoubtedly among the five richest European countries. Knowing this change, we could figure out how many years it will take us to get to their level.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U231	Thank you. In the social field as a whole, the financial resources will increase next year, which is positive. We can always discuss whether these resources are sufficient and whether it would have been possible to channel additional resources into this area. I think these are discussion places. If you ask what the situation in Estonia will be next year, then next year the subsidies that we have talked about today will increase, but also pensions, for example. Let us not forget that wage increases and unemployment reductions have been faster than expected. This has given us the opportunity to raise pensions next year. If wage levels are higher and there are more people on the labour market, this means that more social tax will also be paid to the state budget. Compared to this year, revenue will increase next year. I think that Germany, which you are talking about, is a very good example of where we should strive. We have taken a great deal of our thinking from Germany, and many German ideas have also been taken over in our judicial system. I believe that we have much to learn from German accuracy on the one hand and from the overall logic of the whole system on the other. Germany is a good example.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U232	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U233	Thank you. I'll continue with my last question. Yesterday, Minister for Finance Jürgen Ligi came to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who said that the two political groups, the IRL and the Reform Party, have misunderstood what some state companies could still take additional dividends. You confirm that you have carried out an in-depth analysis and you know which company you can take dividends from. Was the Minister of Finance wrong when he thought that there were no more companies in Estonia from which additional dividends could be taken? Was he wrong when he said he'd been looking for sources of cover for the budget for months, but he hasn't found such sources? Two factions have found it now. Please enlighten us on the state company from which you can take dividends that the Minister of Finance had not noticed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U234	Thank you. I can't tell if the Minister of Finance was wrong or not. The current information, based on monitoring, indicates that further dividends can be taken. But maybe the analyses finally show that the Minister of Finance is right, and it turns out that there is nowhere to take dividends. Then you have to look for other sources of cover. We need to see why we're even looking for sources of cover right now. We are doing this because we want to withdraw the drafts relating to a change in the value added tax (VAT) of cars from the procedure. We find that these drafts arrived here a little hasty, but we believe that the processing of these drafts will be necessary in the future, because there are tax holes in Estonian society. We note that, in fact, some points of the Income Tax Act have also remained in the way of time, and not only on the revenue side of the state, but perhaps rather in the sense that we are also creating additional costs for the state here. I will give you an example of using your own car for business trips. If we encourage people to buy more personal cars, it cannot be ruled out that they are also going to use these cars more for business trips. Maybe we'll have to increase the tax-free share here. We need to see what we are making some changes for. We are of the opinion that the changes that have now been brought to the table have reached here a little too hasty. They should be discussed more with interest groups. Once we've figured that out, we need to start looking at the potential place to take the money to get rid of this tax hole. Let us not forget that concrete amendments are not yet on the table today. However, the political groups have signalled what they would like to do in the future. On Monday or Tuesday, when this issue is being discussed in the Commission, it will be much clearer what our real opportunities are. It is very good that we have started to talk more and more about the sources of cover and the cost-benefits of the state budget. In previous years, there was not so much talk about these matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U235	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U236	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Our daily rhetoric is a major priority for research and development. However, this expression does not go through the State Budget Act unfortunately. It is true, however, that it exists in a few places in the draft explanatory memorandum, but specific figures are not included. The State Budget Act itself sets out the management costs for research institutions in different areas of government, but there are no costs for substantive activities. They are hidden under all kinds of dedicated appropriations or economic costs, as in the Ministry of Agriculture. Do you consider this format, structure and degree of generalisation of the State Budget Act reasonable and sufficiently informative?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U237	Thank you. We talked about this to some extent earlier when we spoke about transparency. Then the question arose as to what the degree of generalisation could be. I am certainly not the person who says that on this point we should not go to further details or should not go to further details or that this is too much information that burden us when we take a decision. I think all the information that gives us the opportunity to make a decision is good. For example, if the members of the Riigikogu sense how in a sector, such as the education sector, the costs are accurately distributed and what activities are planned, then the Minister of Industry must be clearly required to state it separately in the budget. This level of generalisation still arises over time. I will also give you an example of getting barges for small islands. The budget provides for some kind of expected money and shows for which islands they want to get roasts. The Minister, when asked, is immediately ready to respond in the Commission, both in the Committee on Industry, in the Committee on Economic Affairs for this example, and in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But should we point out in the budget that we have planned more than EUR 4 million for small island barges, that we are planning so much in the first half of the year and in the second half of the year? That's the point of the question. I do not yet feel where one or the other degree of generalisation is justified. It may be expected that we will have to develop this practice ourselves. We can always ask the Minister for each figure what it means, why this figure has been put on our table and how it is planned to be achieved.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U238	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U239	I think there is the knowledge in the Riigikogu that the changes to the VAT law that the government brought here do not actually generate revenue in this form and in this way of writing. The work that the government is doing today is not due to a deficit, but is looking for real sources of cover for these costs. Would it not be reasonable for the government to withdraw the state budget at all and discuss it with one another? However, EUR 24 million is an effective amount. Ultimately, nothing will happen if the state budget is only adopted in January.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U240	Thank you. That's a good question. In short, I will certainly say no to you. In the longer answer, I can tell you that all the activities that are taking place today in the Riigikogu, for example, in the context of a possible delay in the procedure for the draft state budget law, are not correct in my opinion. I think that because of this EUR 24 million too, the decision to withdraw the draft should not be taken. Possible stretching procedures give a clear signal that there is no real desire for decisions to be taken on grants, wage increases, etc. from 1 January next year. I am certainly of the opinion that there is no reason today to decide to withdraw the draft state budget law. There is no point in doing so in the context on which your question came, or in the context on which it was asked earlier. They wondered whether there were doubts that, for example, economic forecasts, which are actually very important, were not correct and the decisions were already wrong in terms of their basis. I can assure you that we do not have this fear at the moment when we are dealing with the draft state budget law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U241	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U242	Thank you! Dear waitress, As we know, the Riigikogu has decided to reduce the personal income tax rate from 21% to 20% as of 1 January 2015. I am not going to make an assessment of who will benefit from this, whether those who receive a minimum wage or a higher salary, but it is certainly not a necessity-based decision. This decision will have a partial impact on the 2014 budget, precisely on possible sources of coverage, because the 2014 budget is a responsible budget, as you have said many times. What is the price of the 1% in euro?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U243	Thank you. However, this decision has no impact on the 2014 budget; it will have an impact on future financial years. But the price is 70 million euros. We must take into account that this depends on the number of people on the labour market at that time and the level of pay. There are quite a few components here, but this sum could be in this order of magnitude. I guess I didn't miss that number. When I come to the introduction to your question, I will say: yes, this is the forum for discussion on what future activities will be in the years to come. I believe that the income from pay should be kept as much as possible in man's hands. I still don't think I'm gonna change my mind. There's no reason for that now. But when it comes to raising the tax-free minimum, i.e. tax-free income, I think these discussions will certainly be ahead of us in the coming years. This year, given the current budgetary possibilities, we can increase the tax-free income of pensioners by ensuring that the average pension is not taxable. As we know, the average pension will increase by around 20 euros per month next year. The Government of the Republic also decided that this increase would not be taxed on income tax. The entire exemption measure is very expensive. The measure for pensioners alone costs millions and millions of euros, almost 10 million, a little less. It is very expensive to remember, but I am of the opinion that the issue of tax-free income should not go under, and its first target group, the pensioners, has been correctly chosen. If we have any financial opportunities, we must do so because these are people who have worked for a long time and paid taxes to the Estonian state. If we raise their pension with one hand, but with the other we take away 21% now or 20% in the future, that is not right. This measure was decided upon during the discussions of the Cabinet. I think that in the coming years there will be a debate on what measures should be taken to ensure that as much money as possible is left to man from the income he earns. Tax-free income is one of these measures. The debate on these measures, I think, lies mainly ahead of political parties before the 2015 elections. I very much hope that political parties will come up with an understanding of what they would like to do with one thing, another thing or a third. Often, our problem is that we are talking about one measure or another, but we are not looking at it with a broader perspective. Perhaps we should look more broadly at the fiscal policy measures that are expected to be implemented in the future in the political parties' programmes. This gives voters the opportunity to make their own decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U244	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U245	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague Sven, I congratulate you on your desire to provide substantive and comprehensive answers. If you hadn't, we'd be surprised the way you'd be surprised if I didn't ask about volunteer saviors. The Committee on Monetary Affairs is likely to find these EUR 136000 for the voluntary bailout organisation before the third reading. But my question is about the equipment and technology of the volunteers' rescuers. On average, one volunteer rescue team receives EUR 500 per year for technical maintenance costs. For example, you can buy 1.2 car tires. There are 16 tires under the Rõuge commando cars. I know you discussed this subject a little bit in the Commission. Is it possible that this amount will increase in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U246	Thank you. The Minister of the Interior, of course, is fighting for this sector, and it would be strange if he didn't. I think every minister fights for his own field, the Minister of Education fights for teachers' salaries, etc. Let's look at the data on the volunteers' rescuers, we can use the figures for 2013. I may have slipped over it before, because it's a very specific subject. However, since the question was asked, we will review the actual situation in 2013. I have the data. I said earlier that the rescue commanders who signed the contract were 103 in 2013 and the number of people in voluntary rescue companies was just over 1,100. That's the ten months of this year. They will receive €0.76 million next year. But this year, 2013, the money will be distributed as follows: These commandos are paid a standby fee for the time they've been on duty. This amounts to EUR 177000, an average of EUR 1800 per command, depending on the level of preparedness. Agreements with volunteer commandos have been signed for EUR 170000 per year, EUR 350 per command. The fixed fee for technology is set at EUR 54000, which represents an average of EUR 155 per car. The EUR 40000 car repair fund shall be allocated on an ad hoc basis. Vaccinating volunteers will cost EUR 10000. In addition, a fixed fee of EUR 40 per year for the voluntary rescuers, with one certificate per savior, will be granted to the command to cover the costs of the rescuers, such as transport costs. In cooperation with Riigi Kinnisvara AS, the condition of the property occupied by the volunteer rescuers' commandos is assessed. By the way, it's now explaining the technical condition of the car park. I understand the Ministry is working on it. It may be expected that this analysis will certainly be better and more competent to talk about the Minister for Industry. As I have said before, our resources are limited. This is a question that is always preferred, either by grants, by saviors or by teachers, or by something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U247	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U248	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I want to ask you about possible revenues. When we were talking about the sale of land, there was also talk about the purchase of land, the purchase of land with a nature reserve. For the previous financial year, EUR 1.5 million was earmarked for this purpose, with EUR 5 million in this budget. The increase is therefore EUR 3.5 million, which is significant. At the beginning of this year, we also changed the procedure for the buy-back of land with a conservation restriction, which was another change in the long series of changes. We talked at length about when and when there is justified expectation. Then it seemed that we were not very concerned about legitimate expectations. What happened in the meantime? Why was it necessary to increase the amount of land to be bought back several times?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U249	Thank you. I'm gonna talk about this percentage game first. You always have questions when you add up a percentage of something. If the amount has been relatively small, as in this example, when the sum increased from 1.5 million to 5 million, then the percentage seems to be very high, but it may not be that high in number. I would say, in comparison, that 0.5% of high-developed Luxembourg economic growth means that some other countries do not know how many percentages of economic growth. But that's it. I, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, have such information that these queues have been dragged down for a long time. How do these queues come about? They come under the law. The State has been asked to compensate. In previous years, there was an opportunity to change lands. I understand it's gotten into a lot of trouble. Now changes have been made and land is only bought and sold. Leaving the background aside and looking at how many applications have been submitted to the state, arithmetic shows that these queues have stretched for longer than six years. It's a very long time. As far as I understand the Minister's story, the percentage of the increase seems to be large, but we are actually talking about EUR 5 million, which is still a rather small part of the total volume. Applicants who, by law, have been entitled to submit an application will have to wait for years until the State has found the financial means to grant the application. But at least a step has been taken to shorten the queues.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U250	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U251	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, Several organisations, including the Society of Estonian Medical Students, the Estonian Youth Association, the Estonian Parents' Association, have submitted a joint visit to members of the Riigikogu. They find the round money to be very important, and they have even proposed a source of cover for it. Was this appeal discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and, if not, why was it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U252	Thank you. This appeal, which I think all members of the Riigikogu received, was not discussed in the context of second reading. Only those amendments that have come from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or ministries will be discussed at second reading. This is, in itself, the right thing to do. I think that the political groups should also discuss this issue. My home group has already held a conference on this issue to look at where they want to put the money, but also at where they want to take the money. In this sense, the proposals that make the proposal clearly show where this money can be taken from are grateful. What have these organizations offered by looking at the source? They have offered to harmonise the excise duty on lean and strong alcohol for a certain period of time. Here are the opinions from the wall to the wall. The fact is, the difference between lean and strong excise duty is 2.6 times. If the country increases the excise duty by 5% each year, it will do so at these levels. In short, 5% of 100 is one number, but 5% of 260, for example, is another number. In both cases, they are 5%, but they are different amounts. There are quite a number of arguments in favour and counter-arguments as to why this should be done or why it should not be done, why harmonisation should be approved or not. Actually, there hasn't been a proper debate about this. All members of the Riigikogu only now received a longer address on this subject, where a completely real new source of cover was brought out to the state. I know that the Social Democrats have made this proposal very correctly. If there was any other proposal that could be questioned as to whether it was correct or not, there is a very concrete proposal here, but it has not received political support. I have said that I personally would rather be in favour of harmonising excise rates and moving in this direction. There is always a problem that this issue will come up in the course of the state budget procedure, if there is a month or a month and a half to the beginning of the financial year. If this amendment were to pass, it would mean not a 5% increase in excise duty currently foreseen by the country, but, even if spread over four years, it would still mean a exponential increase of 20% to 30%, which is announced in advance by months to one and a half, or even less. In the middle of December, we will accept the state budget. If only two weeks are told that excise duty is rising exponentially, 20 to 30%, then this is not normal. I do think that we should start a discussion and move towards harmonisation, but we should not make this change just two weeks before the beginning of the financial year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U253	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U254	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Now I'm gonna use the computer and the paper at once, make notes in the meantime, no offense. I have a question about the joint company Rail Baltic. It is known that EUR 650000 will be paid next year. Is this money provided for in the state budget? Do we know where that line is? I couldn't find it. What is Estonia's participation in this joint company?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U255	Thank you. Based on the data provided by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, it must indeed be said that the first instalment of EUR 0.65 million is foreseen in 2014. If you ask me what particular chapter is the money in, this is a very specific question to which I owe the answer. However, the Minister confirmed that he had foreseen this within the total amount of public transport for the financial year. I told you earlier that next year this amount will be EUR 65,5 million. It is very clear what money, a total of 65,5 million, is and how much money is planned for. I repeat to you the words of the Minister for Economic Affairs that this money is included in the 2014 budget. If you're interested in more precisely what kind of account it is in, we can definitely find out. It is not a problem if this amount does not stand out at the very first moment, but it will certainly be included in the 2014 budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U256	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U257	Thank you very much, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please provide concrete examples of how the 2014 state budget will reduce the gender pay gap. As we know, the gender pay gap in Estonia is the deepest in the European Union, while the educational level of an Estonian woman is considerably higher than the educational level of an Estonian man, which is rare throughout the world. So if the state budget does not express a reduction in the gender pay gap, my question as a social democrat is why it is not there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U258	Thank you. As I have already said, today it can be said that there is no gender pay gap in the public sector, at least not in this size, as stated in several analytical documents. I have reason to believe that in the light of information from the ministries. If you have different information, if you can, for example, show that the same ministry's two head of department's salary varies by 3% because one is a man and the other is a woman, then be sure to bring it out. I don't have that kind of information. The other part of the question is how and what the state should do to reduce the pay gap not only in the public sector, but in society as a whole. I think it's a thinking place. We did not stop at this in the Committee on Finance, which is why it is difficult for me to convey to you the Commission's position. Given your competence on this subject, I would rather listen to your understanding after this debate. I am not saying that I would shape mine from this point of view, because we have different opinions on a number of things, but knowing that you have really devoted a great deal of time to this subject, I would like to hear your opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U259	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U260	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I'll come back to the school food issue, and I'll base your answer on the debate you were talking about. I would remind you that there will be debate and debate on this issue once a year in the Committee on Culture, at least once a year in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and this will also take place in this Chamber, for example today, when questions are asked about it and speeches are held on it. This has been the case for many years. What should be the format with which you, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and also the representative of the coalition, would be satisfied?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U261	Thank you. I'm sure it doesn't matter what I do here. I'm just a part of this system that has the right to have a say as you do. My voice is just as weak or strong as your voice. I'm sure there's no difference between us here. You asked how you could and should do. I'm not the right person to say it either. You're asking for my personal opinion, and I'm trying to tell you that. How would I see that? I think I would like to make a draft, I do not exclude that I would also hold a debate on a matter of national importance, if this issue is important to society. But I will say once again that we are not specifically talking about one example, but about how to bring important issues to the Riigikogu and from there to create a debate in society, so as not to have one or another debate behind the so-called state budget. I think that issues could be taken up in the financial year by presenting a draft. Since the political groups are also entitled to bring important national questions to the Riigikogu, this way, I imagine, could actually be a debate. The political decisions we make in this Chamber, both in terms of the budget, but also in terms of the drafts, are being shaped in the political groups. The political groups will discuss the matter among themselves and shape the understandings that will be finalised in negotiations and voting. There is nothing strange about it if some proposal that has gone through all these procedures is finally not supported. There are always arguments against this; there are arguments for any proposal. We talked about the unemployment fund earlier. Here, too, there are pros and cons in terms of both lowering and maintaining the rate. In fact, you have to look at the total amount and all the effects that arise in Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U262	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U263	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The Social Democrats have proposed a triple of child support for the state budget from 1 July next year. The Minister of Finance Ligi, who presented his best state budget of all time to the Riigikogu, said that children have not missed anything, children are counted at every step of the way, they are covered by both the health insurance fund and the education budget, and children are part of the entire social system, because the state does not take children away from their parents. Do you similarly believe that our country does not have to do anything for families with children and that it is enough for children to be insured at the health insurance fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U264	Thank you. I reserve the right to question the point raised at the beginning of your question. I don't think the Minister of Finance has said that. But I cannot rely on anything other than my own religion in such a statement, but we can then look at the verbatim as to whether the Minister of Finance has said so or not. That was an introduction. Now answer the question. No, of course not. I believe that dealing with children and child benefits is one of the major priorities. Let us remember the decisions that came into force in the middle of this year and the decisions that will enter into force in 2015. I think you are misleading society when you say that child benefits have not been dealt with in ten years. This isn't right. In fact, the amount of child benefits has been changed, a need-based family allowance has been added. It cannot be said that this issue has not been dealt with. The question is how to proceed. The multiplication of child benefits, in a way that is universally paid to everyone and at all times, cannot be an effective model. Within the limits of the resources that society has, it is important to look at the need-based. I think that principle works. We're directing the money we have to the right place. But once again, that's my opinion. Returning to the question again, I say that I believe that we have to deal with this issue and we have also dealt with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U265	Thank you very much. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U266	We'll stay within one minute of asking the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U267	Thank you. rapporteur for the Commission, I thank you very much for being prepared to answer questions from members of the Riigikogu in substance. It's very positive. For years, however, it has been pointed out that pollution response capabilities are not sufficient. Several risk assessments have said that if large-scale marine pollution occurs and we cannot react quickly enough, it could turn into a major coastal pollution. The risk analyses also point out that this will certainly happen once every ten years. Perhaps the question is not whether this is happening, but when it will happen. We do not have enough resources to prevent pollution, prevent or eliminate pollution. The Ministry of the Interior has made efforts to use Estonian taxpayers' money and some of the Structural Funds of the European Union. But very many countries use the 'polluter pays' principle and also include money elsewhere. Why has the government not taken this opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U268	It seems to me that the government has used it. Of course, there is always the question of the extent to which this will be done and how future risks will be assessed. We can always say that risk assessments say something different when we add any amount. Decisions made on the basis of the Ministry, which ultimately find their output in the state budget, are not made on the basis that one person or another has thought that there could be such an amount. They're still based on analysis. You also said that there might be some kind of natural disaster or pollution sooner or later. I think that the proposals on the budget have also been made on the basis of these analyses. I have no reason to doubt them. I guess, within the limits of the available financial resources, it has been found that such a contribution could be possible. I have not been in office sessions, but I do not rule out the fact that the ministers in the field have asked for more money, giving some justification. But then there have not been any sources of cover that we have talked about very much today. I am indebted to the answer because I have not been in all the debates in my office. I think that if the government has brought such an amount on the table today, then, according to their understanding, it will therefore work.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U269	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U270	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In your introductory speech, you accused the Social Democrats that we lack an analysis of the impact of the proposal to triple universal child support. That, of course, is not true. But you also said that you would rather support needs-based support aimed precisely at bringing families with the least insured out of poverty. That's a good goal! Since I realized that the coalition has all the impact analyses carried out, I specifically ask: how many families do you think will be taken out of poverty by means of the need-based support planned for the budget over the next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U271	Thank you. Since I am based today mainly on the amendments that have been in the Riigikogu during the state budget procedure, I reserve the opportunity to come back later as a member of the political group and party and to give you an overview of what I consider to be the pillars of our party in the context of one measure or another, why I think so and what we want to achieve.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U272	Thank you. Please, Mart Meri, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U273	Thank you. I just want to talk a little bit more about revenue and expenses. I believe that in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the main issue now is how to cope with a situation where "free money" is becoming increasingly scarce in the budget, where new sources of cover can be found to accomplish something, independently of the European Union's support money. One way would probably really be to harmonise the excise duty on lean alcohol with the excise duty on spirits, which would give a little room for manoeuvre. But the question is how much the Committee on Monetary Affairs has been looking for innovative solutions to find additional sources of cover, not just for next year, but for the coming years at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U274	Thank you. I certainly need to clarify the powers of executive power and the powers of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As a general rule, the Committee on Monetary Affairs does not need to have the direct objective of increasing potential sources of coverage. The Commission shall examine and evaluate the amendments received. This will be done in cooperation with the initiator of the draft, to see if the sources of cover are correct in nature and, if so, to see if they can also be supported politically. But I share the concern that this issue is motivated by. It is our joy and concern that we are increasingly and more approaching this 'European average' position. It is, of course, a joy to get closer to the average. After all, our aim is to move beyond this average and to be among those European countries that are economically capable and have a higher standard of living than the European average. But the problem is, the closer we get to the average, the smaller our subsidies will be. True, we must take into account that at some point the subsidies will end. I do not rule out that we will ever become a net payer from a net beneficiary. We are actually working to make sure that we are once net contributors. It is clear that in Estonia, a very large part of the cost has been set out by law and indexations. The state must look at its revenue side in order to bring money to the state budget as effectively as possible within the limits of the available resources. Here you can give an example of the same tax hole. This is the work that people who work for the implementation of the state budget and the functioning of the state at all must do every day. The problem, if there is one, and I think it has to be dealt with. Your group has suggested that we raise income tax. You want people who earn over EUR 1100, namely EUR 1150 per month, to pay more income tax on it, 26%. On the one hand, this is a perfectly correct observation, because it will generate additional resources for the country. But on the other hand, the question arises as to where these additional resources come from. They're coming from the employees. This is the part of the discussion about whether we have to approach it this way. I am sure that voters also have their say in what tax methodology they would like to have. You gave an example of a strong and lean excise duty. I think that the reason why this has not progressed so far is because no agreement has been reached. People have different opinions and, as long as there is no meeting on the central floor, there is no way forward. These are the questions that arise here. There are also and more examples that should be looked at carefully. I'm not gonna speculate any more here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U275	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U276	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, My question is about the budget for culture. As we know, the budget in this area will increase by 22.8% next year. This represents an additional EUR 35.5 million. I am very grateful if you answer my specific question fairly briefly. How much of this EUR 35.5 million will be paid into the pocket or wallet of the workers in this area, and how much will it take for concrete?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U277	Thank you. You want a specific answer. To that end, I should, frankly, open up this whole package in the state budget and run through it. You have a specific question with particular emphasis. Just to save time, I'll find an answer to that later. I will give you the answer, even as soon as the debate is over, the advisers of the Committee on Monetary Affairs will also assist me. I do not have the opportunity to take this answer, but it exists in the context of the budget. Your question settled by itself, so I understood, led to the thought that there might be some anomalies. This issue was also discussed during our current debate, but we can certainly take this answer out and send it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U278	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U279	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You have even recognised the opposition in this Chamber today, who has thought not only of expenditure but also of revenue. Today, Professor Dago Antov of the Transport Planning Chair of Tallinn University of Technology has been reflected in the media that the state of Estonia pays to think about road user fees. It exists in other European countries, not in Estonia. I will give you an example that on Sunday, when I drove from Tartu to Tallinn, 42 cars hit me within 2.5 hours, carrying cars to the border to move from there to Russia. They are not filling in Estonia, they are in Russia, so they are not paying excise duty, and there is nothing there for tea storage. How do you think we could think about this tax in the future? It would increase our revenues, and then there would be more to share.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U280	Thank you. You simply want to know my opinion as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You have even realised that such an amendment has never existed before, and we have not discussed it in the Commission either. There's no point in asking for money just to ask for it. Why do I say that? Let me give you an example, because it is always easier to talk with examples. If, for example, a bridge project between the mainland and Saaremaa is ever to be carried out, I think this is the point of discussion. If the state involves a private financial investor who puts his money in it, then the state will not put some money in it and it will be able to divert it somewhere else. However, it is clear that a private company wants its investments back. In this example, there is, first, the possibility that the crossing of the bridge is taxed and, second, the possibility that the State itself will pay the bridge tax from the budget in order for the private operator to obtain its agreed return. In the case of existing roads, such as the Tallinn road, a guard post should be placed at both ends of the road in the case of taxation, so that it is not possible to travel on the road if the tax has not been paid. It is a matter of discussion, but I am not very sure that this would be sensible. I am not only talking about the cost of collecting the tax. Secondly, it would really be a type of taxation, but I am not sure that it would be the right type. That should be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U281	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U282	Thank you. Dear waitress, The strike of medical staff was important in the context of the state budget procedure last year. It was agreed that the salaries of medical staff would rise and that unemployment benefit would be reduced from 50% of the minimum wage to 35% of the minimum wage in order to fill this unexpected budget gap. The rhetoric was that the salaries of medical staff needed to be increased, but the money was not planned. On the basis of the draft proposed by the two political groups, this support was reduced and Mr Aidma told the public that unemployment benefits would be increased by the government next year, when the budget included both an increase in unemployment benefit and higher salaries for medical staff. Unfortunately, we will not find this money in the budget next year. Did the Committee on Monetary Affairs seriously discuss this issue, but did not find a way to increase this support, or did Mr Aidma just lie to the public, and raising the support was not your aim?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U283	Thank you. Several times today, there has been a statement that someone has lied, that Jürgen Ligi has been lying somewhere, or that someone else has. Don't look so schizophrenic! I guess people don't lie. I have no reason to believe that all previous speakers have lied here. We'd rather go over the numbers. You asked whether there was a debate in the Commission. This is again a specific question. There was no debate, there wasn't. I can't give you an operational answer. The figures should be taken into account as to the financial side of the aid rates, etc. Often, the question is that something seems very unfair to someone. I think this example is rather not unfair. If we are going to discuss the issues of unemployment and unemployment at all, what are the measures and whether we should contribute more to the increase in subsidies or to other measures, for example, re-training, it must be said that these issues definitely need to be discussed. But I don't think anyone's lied. However, if you need specific figures, we will take them out, there is no question at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U284	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U285	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I come back to the trucks, which here offend the sense of justice of some Estonian people. Let's put Estonian carriers aside. What would still prevent the state budget from collecting taxes from truckers who enter the territory of the Estonian state via the Tallinn Port and travel here to Riga in such a way that they do not buy fuel or food from Estonia, but leave our roads in asphalt roofs every time they get deeper? If other members of the European Union have largely taxed these trucks, why is Estonia so kind and not taking advantage of this opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U286	Thank you. It's a discussion place. If you noticed, a little while ago, they asked why the fees for trailers were higher so that these fees could be reduced. Well, that's the point of discussion, is the cost of these trailers high or low, should you charge a separate tax for such journeys as you described, and if there is a tax, what should it be like? We must certainly not create a situation where Estonia is not attractive to its partners. As a transit country, I think our country is attractive. I dare doubt whether, for example, in the case of transport by road, the truck will pass through here and its driver will leave no cents in Estonia. The creation of a transit corridor and its promotion in other countries are in themselves correct. I believe that any action to ensure that consignments pass through Estonia, whether by cars or by trains or by other means of transport, is in any case beneficial to us in the long run. However, in the case of possible taxes, the question is that where this is the right place, we must not create a situation where there are no more companies that would like to use Estonia as a transit corridor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U287	Thank you. Just in case, I'm gonna ask you a procedural question. The waitress has been on the stand for over three hours. Can you guys keep going, there's still a lot of questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U288	It's okay! The waitress has drunk a few bottles of water, so let's go.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U289	Okay, then let's move on. Please, Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U290	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! On page 17 of the 2014 Draft explanatory memorandum, we can find the following sentence: 'The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will allocate 28 million euros to local road storage, which has increased by 65% compared to 2012. " However, we do know that money for local roads has been reduced compared to 2013. Is this some kind of new approach when drawing up the state budget that if last year's data are not suitable for comparison, then data from the year before or the century ago will be taken? Does the Committee on Monetary Affairs approve of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U291	The Committee on Finance approves of all good things, and if it is possible to channel money somewhere in such a way that there is also a place where this money comes from, we will always approve. If we look at road-housing costs, I don't have this page in front of what you said and talk about content, then the road-housing costs next year will be 288.1 million and the reduction will be 12.5 million. That's a fact. For information, the cost of road maintenance 280 million comes from two sources, one is fuel excise and the other is structural subsidies. Next year, the proportions are such that there will be EUR 220 million in excise duties on fuel and EUR 60 million in structural subsidies. Looking at the year this year, when the costs are EUR 12.5 million higher, we can see that the fuel excise tax came from 199 million and from the structural subsidies 94 million. I read it to you because it gives us a whole new identity. This gives an indication that financing from excise duties on fuel will increase and that structural support funds will decrease. This is also one of the issues that we discussed earlier in the context of one question, i.e. funding from future structural support, as such at all. I think it's an important indication. In fact, in the context of this reduction in the budget, we have to say, by the way, that it also coincides with the principles of excise financing, that more and more of this money comes from the excise duty on fuel itself. That's a fact. So the road maintenance costs are 280.1 million and this money will be available next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U292	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U293	Thank you, Madam President. Good performer! In your presentation, you said that social democrats do not have studies on the need to increase child benefits. Have you read the development plan for children and families up to 2020 completed two years ago in the Ministry of Social Affairs, which presents a great deal of material and research to confirm that the increase in universal child support is essential for increasing family confidence and combating poverty? If you haven't read it, would you be willing to look at it and maybe change your views? It has been said, among other things, that European studies confirm that child poverty is lower in countries with universal family benefits. Studies have also found that there is more spending on children in poorer families in increasing family benefits, while in wealthier families the likelihood of children being born increases.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U294	Thank you, my good colleague. There were several questions, I'm trying to answer everyone. The first question was whether I have read a specific survey. No, it's not. Question number two: am I ready to meet? I'm ready to meet you. The third question: what do you think about child support at all? Dear colleague, studies also show that families with three or more children are in the most difficult economic situation. And even in a situation where both parents work. Even if both parents are working, this segment is the most likely to fall below the poverty line. If you look at the measures that the coalition has decided to take and which have already entered into force in the law, you will see that universal child support has not been taken anywhere. I remember that when there was a bill on need-based support in the proceedings, someone tried again to give the impression that, see, now children's benefits are disappearing. What we are seeing now is that universal child support did not disappear, but special attention was paid to families with three or more children. Of course, this issue is important and the message you have been trying to communicate to society that for ten years no child support has been done is wrong. I'm saying it's wrong, and it's not just a sentence, but it's really the case. You can look at what income tax refunds have been, the drafts that have been adopted and turned into laws in 2000, 2006. A person receives his or her income tax back because he or she has a child in his or her family. You can look at the drafts that have turned into laws in the middle of this year and with which children's benefits grew, the drafts that will turn into laws in 2015. I don't agree with you, but you're right to say that red is black, I can't take that right away from you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U295	Please, Kalvi Tough, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U296	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Sven! In your introductory speech, you said that all ministers attended the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Some of them were more concerned than the other, and one of the most concerned ministers, of course, was also the Minister of Agriculture. His concern is that there will be no additional direct payments in the next budget period, and he has reason to be concerned about that. Yes, the European Commission has provided additional resources and has also provided EUR 50 million in the second pillar, but we know that the payment of support for nature conservation or Natura and semi-natural communities is targeted at the rural development agenda. Therefore, we cannot move this 50 million from the second pillar to the first, and we should still put extra money in top-up from the state budget. What message did the Committee on Monetary Affairs give to the Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U297	Thank you. We're more of a listener for the Minister. Let us hear what the Minister has to say about how he defends his budget, what investments and subsidies he has foreseen and what they are based on. We have given the Minister a message that everything he has done over the last few years for the benefit of Estonian farmers has been done in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U298	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U299	Thank you. I would like to thank the Committee on Monetary Affairs because, among the numerous proposals of the opposition, I have found one proposal that has been made on my initiative and which has been partially taken into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. So talk about the coalition's strong roller coaster isn't always true. This proposal concerns, in particular, the area of administration of the Ministry of the Environment, where the salary in the various departments is significantly lower than the average salary in this area. Within the budgetary process, how many differences in salaries between departments of different ministries are analysed in order to harmonise salaries in similar areas and to prevent people from being commuted from one agency to another?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U300	Thank you. That's a good question. There has been little discussion of this at the level of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This is also somewhat understandable, because the whole public sector focuses on ministries and they actually put together the budget. But as far as I have the information, I can tell you that this issue is topical. I know that ministries are currently actively analysing wage levels by sector and by ministry. The question may always arise here, for example, in comparison with a policeman and a military officer, and such examples can be found in an IT person in one ministry and an IT person in another ministry, etc. In fact, an analysis has been carried out on a sectoral and ministerial basis, and I have realised that there are heated discussions in the government office about what teachers' salaries are and at the same time what the salaries of cultural workers are. These analyses and debates also allow some truth to be reached, which will eventually be reflected in the budget. If you answer the question of whether a sector-specific analysis is being carried out, yes, according to my information, the ministries are working on it. This has not been the case, and I do not think it will be the Commission's line in the future. It's still more of a subsidiary issue, and that's where they deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U301	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U302	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! In your speech, I really liked the sentence that the Committee on Monetary Affairs supports all the good proposals. This leads to the conclusion that those that are not supported are not good enough. I'll be back to school lunch. I have one table in mind: in 2005, the school lunch allowance was 75 cents, in 2013 78 cents, which is three cents in nine years. I understand from your speeches that you would rather be in favour of need-based support for school lunch. Has this been discussed and will you ever do it? I don't like it, but maybe it'd be more honest than putting three cents on a finger like that in nine years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U303	Thank you, good questioner! We will then come back to this again, there is nothing strange about it, to repeat it rather than not to repeat it. In the first half of the question, you said that it is good to hear that the Committee on Monetary Affairs supports all good proposals. I would add that, in the case of these good proposals, it is always the question that they must be grounded and covered with something. I cannot say that all the opposition proposals that have come to the Committee on Monetary Affairs are bad. Some of them I don't support, but that doesn't mean they're bad, somebody definitely supports them. Some of the proposals are those which I support intrinsically, but whose sources of cover do not suffer criticism. All the proposals that increase people's well-being and give Estonia the opportunity to develop, as a result of which people also develop, are always good proposals. That's one side. The other part of the question was about school food. I guess that's the subject we're gonna have to put on the table. I think that the political groups will have to form a clear position during the financial year. You say that maybe need-based support is one direction. As you mentioned, it may not be supported, but it would at least be a step forward, really support on a need-based basis and looking at a much larger group. Why not start a discussion on this and make sure that we have additional resources and, if not, how to use the available resources even more effectively? I'm ready for this debate. I understand that, by its very nature, it seems to go away from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but I think that all the political groups could and should be prepared for such debates. Raise this issue completely separately, not just in the state budget procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U304	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U305	Thank you. Honourable waitress! To comment on your answer to the question of Urve Palo, I say that the 2005-2020 development plan for children and families, which you kindly promised to read in the future, says that the least cost-effective measures to reduce poverty are parental benefits, which do not have a purpose in this regard, and secondly, income tax refunds based on the number of children. But I have to come back to my first question, which you so elegantly ignored. We know that a study on the impact of "need-based family support" made a colossal mistake for the government, because the expected 30,000 applicants have been between 3000 and 4000 for months instead of the expected 30,000 applicants. It also gives rise to some doubt as to how precisely you have predicted the effects of reducing poverty. I am asking about the budget for next year: how much do you anticipate applicants for need-based family support and how many of these families will be removed from poverty or from the risk of poverty?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U306	I'm gonna start from a distance, and then we're gonna get to the question. When we talk about the child benefit paid until the child reaches the age of 16, or if the child continues to study until the child reaches the age of 19, the first and second child benefit is 19.18. Since the third child, it was EUR 57.54, rising to 76.72 on 1 July and increasing to EUR 95.9 in 2015. We're already talking about five times the support if I'm not mistaken, not another triple. Now the question is that the estimate was to be 30,000 applicants, but there were 3 000 to 4 000 applicants. I don't know what your claims are based on. Those who analyse and make forecasts on the basis of macro indicators and are based on Estonia's poverty line are based on the data on which decisions are based. I owe you an answer on why there have not been 30,000 applicants. I am also not sure that your argument is correct. I think we can clarify that. However, I can say that the decisions that have recently been taken have been the focus of increasing child benefits, leaving universal support. A new measure in the form of needs-based family support has been introduced and funding has been allocated from the state budget under this measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U307	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U308	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I understand you're not very excited about commenting on children's benefits. We all understand that children's benefits are actually small in Estonia, and this has also been addressed by several institutions. The Chancellor of Justice pointed out in his analysis that there are 45,000 children in Estonia who are at risk of poverty. This year, the National Audit Office pointed out that local authorities are obliged to do a lot of work for the protection and care of children, but the local authorities themselves are also on the famine pile and do not have enough money to do so. Doesn't it seem to you that we have secured, through the state budget, some sort of secondary items of expenditure, but at the same time left the children, somehow unscathed our future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U309	Thank you, good questioner! I do not agree with the beginning of your question. You started by saying that I'm kind of uncomfortable talking, and I don't even want to talk. On the contrary, I want to talk about it. I want to tell you that the rumors that child support has not increased in ten years are wrong. Decisions have been taken and they have entered into force as a law. But I'll tell you again that any person can say anything. I rely on the laws and measures in force in my statements. If we look at measures other than child support, I would like to give you an example that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in 2012, provided additional state budget support for children's rich families of 2.22 million, to which KredEx added another EUR 2.4 million of home-support contracts for 2008-2009, in total. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications received support from 300 child-rich families, which, by the way, have a total of 1500 children. In 2013, under the same measure, I did not talk about needs-based subsidies; this is a completely separate measure from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, EUR 1.4 million, to which KredEx added further. A total of 1.5 million were given to 194 families, with a total of 843 children. There are many measures aimed at supporting children. To say that it is uncomfortable to talk about it is not uncomfortable to talk about it, on the contrary, we need to talk about it. The question is how to talk about it, what amounts of money and what extent. I have a different opinion here than you do. I think that we should focus our existing financial capacity on the needs of those who need help. Here, me and you clearly have a different opinion, I don't deny that there is a difference. I don't think everyone has to get child support. I think we need to set a border and give support to those people who need it. If, for example, this border is a poverty line, then it is clear, so these people need support, they need it more than anyone else. If resources are limited, we have to take money from somewhere. But I assure you that no one will be involved in universal support next year or the year after, in any case the message that universal support will be withdrawn will not go out of here. In the future, however, we should still think focusedly about who needs support.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U310	Thank you. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U311	Thank you. Dear waitress, It's a pleasure to see you brighten up on the subject of children's benefits. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, despite various measures, nearly 60,000 children still live in poverty or at risk of poverty in Estonia, which means that government policy in the context of supporting families has completely failed. My question concerns another subject. The government, in cooperation with the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, has been preparing for the conclusion and enforcement of the Estonian-Russian border agreement for a long time, which could take place at the beginning of next year. You've met the Minister of the Interior. As we know, after the entry into force of the border agreement, Estonia needs to make an investment of millions of euros to build the border infrastructure. This should start right next year, because it is also the European Union, not just the Estonian border. Are millions required to build the infrastructure of the southeast border of Estonia into this budget or not? I couldn't find it in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U312	Thank you. It's always a clever trick when a background is created in an introduction to a question. Since I do not agree with this background, I take the right to explain why I do not agree before answering the question. You said that Estonia was exceptional in its situation, you made it clear that Estonia was about to go somewhere to the left, I think it is wrong to say, I believe it is going to the right, falling into a worse position. Once again, what I have said before, if you compare with something, the question is, of course, what does this comparison mean, then I can confirm that, in terms of the same indicators, we are in the middle of other European countries. It doesn't cheer us up, but let's just be an indication. This does not mean that we do not have to deal with this problem. As you can see, this problem has been dealt with. The second part of your question concerned the border agreement and the related investments to improve the border. I admit that it is a very specific issue indeed. When the Minister for the Interior was in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, this issue was not specifically raised. But since you started the discussion, I'll give you my opinion. The question of what investments must be made, when this agreement is concluded, I will owe the answer because I am not the Minister of the Interior. But let us not forget that the border between Europe and Russia is still in Estonia. It can be expected that this is why we have already made investments, and we also have all the agreements that make it clear that Estonia, as a country of the European Union that has a border with third countries, must ensure that this border is maintained, secure, etc. I really do not know whether further investments are needed after the physical conclusion of the border agreement. I do not rule out that this may be the case, but it is such a specific issue that it has not been discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U313	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U314	Thank you, Madam President. Good performer! The 2009 OECD report already states that the profile of public expenditure in Estonia is not in line with theories and scientific material on the welfare of the child. The development plan for families and children points out, among other things, that Estonians want to have at least two children in the family, but the main obstacle is the lack of economic security. It is therefore considered that a variety of family benefits and benefits can provide families with conditions that give them greater confidence to have the desired number of children. Broad-based studies have been carried out to prepare this development plan, the government has approved the development plan two years ago, it is on the website of the Ministry of Social Affairs. What more research and support would you need to support the increase in child benefit and include support for education of interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U315	Thank you. It's interesting that I'm talking, but it's like you're not listening. I am telling you that children's benefits have been increased, I will tell you what, when and how much they have been increased, and then you will ask me the next question and ask me if you will not even think about increasing child benefits at all. Am I telling deaf ears? And by the way, when we talk about the OECD, the OECD has said one interesting thing. He has said that less should be taxed on earning and more on consumption. I think that, in addition to the issue of children's benefits, we are working in this area as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U316	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U317	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Everyone here is picking on you for the little lines, but I'm hurting the heart for the world in the bigger picture. Every time there is budgetary debate, there is fear of a slowdown in economic growth, there is a search for shelters and whatever. But would it be possible to hold a debate on the fact that perhaps our tax system is a little out of date? On the previous point, you just touched it. Could a normal and reasonable tax system, for example, contain the shadow economy a little bit? It is estimated that in the Estonian economy, a whole lot of money is being moved by optimists say that 20%, according to pessimists, 30% by budget. Is this issue on the table at all, and would it make sense, for example, to launch a deep debate on the next budgets?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U318	We have touched on this subject a little today, but let's open it again. Yeah, it's a very active subject. In percentage terms, this money is slightly above 9% of GDP, amounting to over 400 million. In turn, VAT accounts for more than 50%, more than 200 million. It's always worth comparing. In Europe, we are actually quite okay in this respect. All countries have their own tax pit, that's natural. But the subject is crucial just because it is actually the place where money can come back from when we make the right decisions. As we talked about before, the Riigikogu has already passed the procedure or the procedure, and there are quite a few drafts coming into force as a law that concern this matter. For example, first registration of employees. Remember, the Director General of the Tax Administration has spoken both in the public and in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that when officials go to a specific building area, there are very often people who say that they are working for the first day. You realize, even if he's working for the first day of the day, it's strange to ask him why there was no income tax, no social security or other taxes last month. We are making changes in this regard, this bill is coming up. We are bringing in an obligation, I hope it is our common understanding that the employer will register the employee the day before taking up his job. Perhaps if a person is physically employed in construction, in a cafe, or in any workplace, this must have been reported to the IRS before. Of course, we can say that this is an extra burden for the company, and he has to report something somewhere. That's a very good point. The IRS should set up as flexible systems as possible for this example, I don't know, until the text message is issued. And barely businesses have such a huge flow of labour that people come and go all the time. I want to say that we have measures in place. In addition to this first working day measure, there are also measures relating to excise duties, for example. Then this is cross-border trade, which we also talked about here, and it is already a matter of law. There are various measures. We have dealt with the fuel issue on several occasions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and let us be honest, the changes that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has brought to the big room as proposals, and which have also become a law, have ultimately brought in tens of millions of euros. This is an important issue and needs to be addressed. I am really glad to see that the management of the tax administration is full of enthusiasm, and they give the enthusiasm as an indication that it is the entrepreneur who produces added value in Estonian society. Money doesn't come out of an ATM slot. It is necessary to be in a balance so that the company can work, and at the same time all the activities of the tax administration are aimed at making competition fairer and more transparent. In fact, companies themselves are also interested in eliminating unfair competitors. If there is an unfair competitor who fails to pay taxes, whatever taxes they are, then the company can sell its production below the price that its competitors have because its input values are quite different. So this is a very important issue and we have talked a lot about it over the last year. It needs to be dealt with further.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U319	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U320	Thank you! Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. First of all, I come back to the subject of child benefits. It is very gratifying that the support of the third child has increased, but the thing that you obviously do not intend to argue against me or other social democrats is that if the first child and the second child are not born, the third child cannot be born either. These third children are in the order of 20000, but the first and other children whose support has not increased in ten years are in the order of 230,000. So your argument about how child benefits have increased is, to put it mildly, subjective. Now I would like to come to what you said earlier was a general direction that Estonia should take in the tax structure, also based on the OECD opinion, i.e. taxing less earning and more consumption. Since your performance is about to come to an end, would you describe to us, in conclusion, the main levers in the 2014 budget, where this direction has been pursued?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U321	Please stay within a minute of the question, not in a way that you will start the question before a minute and after that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U322	Thank you. Discussion is necessary, so in this sense it is perfectly understandable if it takes more than a minute. I'll take care of the beginning of the question first. Of course, the first child is very important, as is the second child, etc. I have said this before, but I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that an important tax ruling was issued on the second child in 2006. In 2006, the decision to recover income tax from another child after declaration was enacted as a law. This is a large amount, over EUR 300 in total, namely EUR 30,24 per month. I think it is also right to take this as one measure, on the one hand, for us to have children and, on the other, as a support measure. This is the real money that the country gives back to families in millions of euros every spring. This is an important measure, in addition to all other activities that have been discussed on this subject. I have nothing more to add. I don't even remember what the question was. I have repeated the whole package of measures several times.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U323	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U324	Thanks! Look, Sven, I've got a weird badge that says that the Snotlout has been ashamed for ten years in a row. A very small one can also realize that it is because of the same child support. I remembered the classic about it. Ilfi and Petrov's '12 chairs' with a character like a shy thief who's always embarrassed, but who, if possible, steals even though he talks about anything else. Why such a parallel? In my opinion, during the years 2007 to 2009, Ivari Padar was the Minister of Finance. So this shame gets kind of ridiculous. I ask you, as an older man, how do you view this shy thief's shame and stalling, this pointless snot of stalling here today and in the future? How serious can you take this shame?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U325	Thank you, Juku-Kalle in your juicyness! I know, of course, that the Minister of Finance of the Socialists has been in the government, but I have not knowingly brought this issue to the table myself. What am I gonna do? After all, I have made it clear that the logic of the entire ten years is actually wrong in its nature. True, you had the right observation that one Minister of Finance has been from the Social Democratic Party, and far more recent than ten years ago, but he did not come up with a proposal at any point, at least did not turn it into a law. That's one side. Second of all, good Juku-Kalle, I say that repeating ex is the mother of wisdom. And the thing is, if you keep saying it, you're gonna start believing it yourself at one point, and when you finally start believing it, you can make the others believe it. This is someone's purpose now, and we can't challenge it, that's the right they have. It is my business as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs to provide the information that I have and to show that some claims are rather slogans, they are not correct. I am not merely describing what has happened in the field of children's benefits, but to confirm the figures. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U326	Please, Mr Indrek Saar, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U327	Thank you. Since several statements have been thrown back into the air, I have to start with them. Income tax refund from the second child is certainly a nice, though late gift for families with good income. For families whose incomes are minimal or low, this does not add anything, that is, families who need help is not helping. While we are talking about the 2007 to 2009 years, the Minister of Social Affairs, Maret Maripuu, had been in force for four years and not ten years. It must certainly be added here that, when it was going to be cut, the only ones who stood for maintaining child benefits were the Social Democrats. The coalition partners on the right always raised the table to the point that it was the first place to be cut. Well, let's do it for history. Finally, my question: what are the priorities in this budget that should promote the economy in order for the economy to grow again and for us to have more money to rule the country with?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U328	Thank you. I'm gonna start from a distance. You started with child benefits, which is natural because your message today is about them, and I think it is good that we talk about this in society. You have not touched on any of today's questions as to whether the statement for 10 years is correct or wrong. In my answers, I have tried many times to give you an understanding and also to explain why I think your argument is wrong. Just because you put a badge in your chest doesn't mean it's right. Just because you're yelling loud... I'm sorry, you haven't done this today, but I'm saying conditionally that speaking with a louder voice doesn't mean that this is the right thing. I certainly want to get an assessment of whether or not children's benefits have been or have not been provided during this period, and to hear what your opinion is based on when you express your opinion. I say they've been dealt with. As far as the budget is concerned, we should look at two things. We should look at the budget as a whole, which it gives and where it is directed, and the other is the economic side. If you ask me how I see this budget, I would first give such an indication that I see the 2014 budget as a social budget, which I think you should like very much, you as a party in this segment. I say this because, when you look at the volume of subsidies in the state budget, both in the Ministry of Social Affairs budget and in various measures, you will see that this volume is quite large and is increasing. You can see that wages are rising in the public sector. You will see that pensions will increase by almost 6%, 5.8% next year. This is currently the fastest rise in Europe. You will see that the income support increases to 90 euros. I see that this is clearly a socially oriented and good budget. And when you ask the economy what are the activities that are aimed at economic development, promoting the economy, I think that the whole government's actions today are one of the major efforts to provide an indication that it makes sense to come to Estonia elsewhere in the world. All this activity, starting from a simple and clear tax system and ending up with various incentives and activities to attract businesses here, there are many of these measures. But the message is clear: money here in Estonia cannot come from anywhere other than the value added generated by companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U329	Thank you. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U330	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, first of all, a big tribute to you, four hours of answers, this is very powerful! My question concerns local authorities. In the last 4 to 5 years, there is now a second time when the government and the local government associations are unable to sign the final protocol. My question consists of two sides. First of all, do you see a problem with that? Secondly, would it be appropriate to involve anyone else in these negotiations, such as the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu, so that a joint section is still found and this protocol can be signed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U331	Thank you. Good George, let's not confuse the roles. However, the government is the partner of local governments in the so-called first stage negotiations. Parliament will not intervene in this process. I cannot tell you about the earlier time, but since 2011, when I have been chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we have negotiated with the local authorities every time. Maybe that's the way it's been before. However, there is nothing strange about this if the parties sometimes do not agree with each other. If the requirements are greater than the possibilities or do not correspond to reality, if the requirements are not justified by real claims and all parties are rigid, there is nothing to do. Then you have to look at the background systems to know what's really going on. And if we look at the resources that are now available to the local government and, in particular, the financial resources for next year, the fact is that next year local authorities will receive the highest financial support from the state through income tax of all time. This is even bigger in 2014, than it was in peak year, 2008. This is actually a kind of indicator that, in financial terms, has recovered from a situation that was at the peak, this figure has even been exceeded. If you ask whether there is work to be done to ensure that the parties get together and reach solutions, there is, of course, no reason to say anything but that, of course, work must be done to ensure that all parties express their opinion in a reasoned manner and, if possible, reach agreements. It is certainly regrettable that we have not reached the signature of the protocols, but we must also look at the background systems.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U332	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U333	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You have spoken extensively on a number of issues here today, but one issue unfortunately remained only in a rather thorough introduction. This is precisely the subject of support services for the education system. I may be a little wrong in words, but you have pointed out your position, or the opinion of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, that according to the 2014 budget, it is not possible to find money for support services in local governments, because it has taken an important course to start building county centres. At the same time, you certainly know very well that in 2014 the establishment of county centres is just starting, and there is no real benefit for a child who needs, for example, continuous logoped support. How did you, in cooperation with the Minister of Education, come to this conclusion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U334	Thank you. Yeah, that's a good point. True, in today's discussion it has not been taken very long or has not been paid attention at all. I am even surprised, because I think this is a very important issue, especially by reading the press release from the Central Party Group when they proposed amendments. Later, no questions have come up on this issue. But let's get this over with. Let us also look at the issue of support services on the statistical side. Municipal schools currently have support specialists, special pedagogues, school psychologists, logos and social pedagogues 705. Speaking to the Minister of Education, I have realized that there are 81 more in the state institutions, so there should be 786 in total. If the school is under local government, according to the law, it is the duty of the schoolkeeper to pay them. It hasn't changed, it's always been that way. The state has granted grants for this at different times. Now, as I understand it, the Minister of Education, in cooperation with local authorities, will set up regional centres next year, as you mentioned in your question. He has also outlined the reasons why it makes sense to do so. There are many reasons, and I think you know them better than I do. It is certainly a question of access to the service, and also of consumers, of how many people need it. Rather, it is right to bring these services together in such centres and then move on to it. Now there is a decision as to whether or not this direction is right. I have no reason to think otherwise; I fully support the Minister for Education, who has chosen this direction. I owe you an answer as to whether there are any separate lines in the budget, but the Minister of Education has also said that basically the support services side is the schoolmaster's business. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U335	Please, George Ratas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U336	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! This question has already been in the centre of today, but I will bring it back to the table for a second. We are talking about hobbies education and the money of hobby groups. You certainly have more experience here in the Riigikogu than I do, but I remember that there was a coalition agreement in the previous, 11th, that was a sacred cow that was not to be touched. The way it said it, the life of Estonia had to go on. You will receive up to EUR 130 per student as a result of the Coalition Agreement from 1 January next year. It's not in the budget. So who gave up the budget in the negotiations, either on the IRL side or on the Reform Party side? Why isn't that money in the budget? Finally, I ask you: you have been in this chair for four hours, what has been the best question in this conversation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U337	Thank you. Let's start with the question of hobby education. It would be easy for me to say that you should look at the government programs and then the connection to the coalition agreement. But I don't think it would be right if I said so. When the coalition comes together and signs a contract, it's gonna form a vision for four years. He does so by his best will and will, sincere in his desire to carry out all that is written in the coalition agreement. In general, the coalition agreement is a compromise anyway on the proposals that have been put forward in the elections. I do not rule out that in 2015, by looking at the coalition agreement and looking at the implementation report, we will see quite a number of points that have not been met. But it's always worth looking at how much they could fill. I believe this percentage is very high. We can certainly see that the percentage of promises made by the coalition is 90, if not even greater. When it comes to education of interest, it is important to note that some of the financial opportunities are aimed at doing so. I look at the budget lines of the Ministry of Education and Research, and I see that money is directed to open youth centres, and money is directed to youth sports programmes. We can't say no money is given. We may not be able to accomplish everything on the scale they thought possible a few years ago. Then it must be said that it is therefore not possible to implement everything. Jürgen Ligi has also spoken about this in one of his speeches; he has also introduced the financial dimension of the various circles of interest and stated that some of the circles of interest are much more expensive than others. But I think that this is already a specific issue that I am not going to open up right now. Secondly, you asked what was the best question. We'll go through the verbatim later. In the past four hours, there's been a lot of questions. I don't know what the best question was. In any case, I must say that we have had a proper and pleasant discussion today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U338	Thank you. Perhaps the best question is yet to be asked. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U339	Thank you, Mr President. The best questions will certainly come when this side of the hall is finished and the discussion with the coalition party begins, whether through a microphone or outside it. Understandably, I come back to education, and maybe it's quite appropriate to end it, at least at the moment it seems that way. I ask how the discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs were going, and I am sure you have talked about this alive within the coalition. Up to now, education support has been granted to local governments, although it has been prescribed for which it must be used, these are teachers' salaries, school meals or textbooks, but the municipalities have also been given quite a right to self-determination. There is now a clear trend that the state will provide support for teachers' salaries, school meals and educational resources, and then there will be a point. Do you think this is the direction where a lot of thrusts disappear, right?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U340	Thank you. It's not exactly what you say. There's no point in this place. If you dismantle the budget lines of the Ministry of Education and Research, on the one hand, we will see that there will be an increase in teachers' salaries, the minimum wage will increase by 12% next year, from 715 to 800. This is clearly a priority. On the other hand, all reforms will continue, with a reform that brings vocational education closer to labour market needs, the transition to a financing arrangement for vocational schools that take into account the employment and quality of education of graduates, the transition of universities to a new funding system will continue. If you look at how much action is being done in this area, which is right, you cannot say that there is a point there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U341	You don't have any more questions. Thanks a lot, Sven Sester, you're getting out of this remote control now! We've got a lot of calls, we're opening negotiations. First call chair, Sven Mikser! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U342	There would be questions, only the Rules of Procedure do not allow more than two questions to be asked. Ladies and gentlemen, I said already in September, when the Prime Minister spoke before us about the procedure for granting the draft budget for next year, that 1 January next year will be an extremely sad and unfortunate day, when exactly 10 years will pass since universal child support was last increased for the first child of the family. The allowance for the second child of the family was last increased even longer. It's a fact, a sad fact, but it's a fact. In 2004, the amount of child benefit was 300 kroons, in the meantime the euro and 300 kroons have been converted into 19 euros and 18 cents. We all know that in recent years Estonia has been one of the countries with the highest inflation rates in Europe. If we look at an increase in the price of food and non-alcoholic beverages in ten years, we can say that today's EUR 19 allowance for children is roughly EUR 12 in their purchasing power in 2004. The 2004 state budget adopted in this Chamber in 2003 amounted to approximately 47 billion kroons, or just over 3 billion euros. We are currently running a budget of over EUR 8 billion. The Social Democrats believe that supporting families with children must be the highest priority of the Estonian state. Child poverty and the lack of confidence in families with children are a strategic problem, the impact and consequences of which we see and feel today. Last year, according to Statistics Estonia, 14056 children were born in Estonia, which is the lowest figure since 2004. Even more worrying is the fact that if the number of live births recorded in Estonia in 2010 was 35 times higher than the number of deaths, then in the previous year, in 2011 565 people already died in Estonia more than they were born. Last year, however, the number of deaths exceeded the birth rate by 1394. When more than 6600 people left Estonia last year than they arrived or returned, we can see that Estonia's population decreased by more than 8,000 in one year. It is high time for the Estonian state to start treating families with children as a priority, not only in words but also in deeds. Today's national daily newspaper quotes a Swedish population scientist whose message is that if we, i.e. the Estonian state, are currently not investing in children, investment will probably no longer be useful in years. The stubborn opposition of the Government Union to the rise in child benefits, without any substantial justification, is extremely regrettable and is an unambiguously wrong signal. Just as the wrong signal was that, at the beginning of the economic crisis, the right party created a cutaxe for the day-care centre programme. I'm sure today's government allies will remember that at that time they tried to beat the hatchet into children's benefits as well. The accusation of the soccer who, at that time, was the only one protecting and retaining this universal support at all, that it was not increased at that time, is truly cynical. And I am absolutely sure, or at least I hope, that the Reform Party and the Members of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance will know that children's benefits are not in the hands of the Minister of Finance, but rather in the hands of the Minister of Social Affairs. Support for families with children is affordable for the country. Triple child benefit is also affordable for the state if it is a national priority. Looking at both the increase in the total budget volume over the ten years and the increase in the budget for many other expenditure lines, and in particular the increase in the cost of living over the last decade, there is nothing to be said by some government allies that there are simply no funds in the budget for this necessary expenditure. Social Democrats have also identified their own sources of cover to finance the increase in child support. However, if, in principle, the Government Union recognises the need to increase child support, we are certainly ready to negotiate constructively on alternative sources of cover. The Social Democrats have called for a triple of child support and have proposed an amendment to all draft budgets during Parliament's term of office, i.e. the last three years. We have also repeatedly tabled a draft law on this subject at an external time. You will all remember that one of these drafts was voted out of Riigikogu proceedings only last week. Good coalitioners! Instead of looking selectively at the tables that Estonia likes, we, the elected parliament of the people, should honestly look at Estonia's most strategic challenge and try to find a solution to it. I call on you to be constructive and to take this small but necessary step, then we will no longer have to argue in the future whether and why the people of Estonia are going worse than the Estonian state. It's within our power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U343	Thank you very much. Please, Heljo Pikhof! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U344	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats have not come here today and tomorrow night to make fun of the Riigikogu hall. They say God gives you a child, gives you a child's bread. Old people know that. Is that true? Do we have one in Mary's Land? It is estimated that over 63000 children live in Estonia, either in deep poverty or on the poverty line, no one can say exactly. This statistics is a refined formula, right? Estimates are changing over time, all the more so because the country is doing well, while people are not doing so well and we are getting less and less. I guess this is one game of ratios: not a person, not a problem. The main concerns of Estonia's survival in our day are that the first child will no longer be born into the family. Studies show that the birth rate of the first children in the family has fallen in recent years. Potential parents just don't have confidence tomorrow. I would like to have a little security and state support, a kindergarten place, knowing that you can provide your offspring with an appropriate education for the time being. There's nothing supernatural about society, as confirmed by the polls. But we don't have a little of that to give to our children. Estonia's social benefits are twice the EU average, while prices have increased significantly faster than the European Union average in recent years, mainly because of the needy things, electricity, heat, heating and food prices. The minimum cost of one person's food basket has almost doubled between 2004 and 2012. Therefore, it is not uncommon for us to have a child go to bed on an empty stomach. Who can point out the possibility of saving a family with children? Let us not, then, ask why we are experiencing emigration. Young people are among those who go away, and those who are younger in their working life, that is to say, those who have a child. As of 2012, 83000 Estonian citizens study, work and pay taxes abroad. Somewhere else there is more social security, somewhere else our children matter more than our own in Maryland. With God's help, free citizens of the free world now make their own choices. Only do the Estonians who may be born ever find their way back home? In 2012, the minimum cost of one person's food basket was 88 euros 34 cents. By the way, do you know any children who prefer liver and herring to bread, potatoes, macaroni, rice, buckwheat, carrot, cabbage, turnips, just what makes this basic calculation, a child who doesn't want wieners? Even in the last two years, the kilo price of the so-loved wieners of children has risen from EUR 2 per 94 cent to EUR 3 per 40 cent. On 1 January of the coming year, ten years will come from the day the child benefit last increased, namely, the first and second child allowance. At the time, 300 kroons, which, in current money, makes 19 euros and 18 cents, what can you now buy a child to eat? There's no kid's mouth in the wall cracks, and next to the macaroni, every kid would want a wiener, or at least a liver souvenir. Or what could you get for less than 20 euros on your kid's back and foot? One of the criteria by which UNICEF, for example, measures child poverty is that a child must have at least two pairs of appropriate large shoes that stand on his foot. Yeah, maybe it seems strange to the money providers of our country, who have distressed pairs of eight or ten, you can't say exactly. Perhaps together we should recall a bearded Juku joke where the boy justifies his popularity by seeing the teacher's pants dry in the garden pole on the way to school. Tea or lead, but at the beginning of the 21st century, the circumstances have not changed much; neither the teacher nor the student has a spare pair of shorts. If it is, it's only statistically. Children and young people who are already growing up in Estonia must also be raised to be human. Every single step that we can take now to support young people who are in need, yet we fail to do so, hampers children's development prospects and reduces the prospects for the future. Three and a half years ago, the Social Democrats emphasised this right here in the Riigikogu, erecting measures to alleviate child poverty as a matter of national importance. If a child's natural development involves a quarter-long evolutionary hole or gap, not to mention a year or two, it will paralyze the development of a young person and may leave unhealed wounds of his soul for the rest of his life. To alleviate child poverty, or if you want to save children's souls in a different way, you must act as quickly as possible. For ten years, our child benefits have remained at the same nominal level. But who knows how to convert a small drop into fish sticks or movie tickets? So to speak, the need-based family allowance, which, like the Messiah's expectation, was extended, has not helped families in any way to cope with difficulties. The estimated 30361 families received only 3250 households, or around 9% of the planned population, on a needs-based basis, in October. Even in our poor and otherwise poor society, less than ten euros a month will not weigh up in infinite paperwork and self-depreciation. Finally, I would like to ask once again: how does one country, since a small country like Estonia, survive in the first place? Using Hando Runnel's poem here, 'we're moving towards sunset.' The heart of the government is at peace today, but for whom has the country been created? After all, the country has been created for its people, and with its people and their needs, we must make a difference in this country first and foremost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U345	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U346	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Not to mention other things, I have two very specific reasons not to support this budget. That's where I start. When amendments were first examined in the Committee on Monetary Affairs before the second reading, point 5 in the first amendment (area of administration of the Ministry of Education and Research) stood out. From there I was surprised that these targeted grants would increase by 30% in relation to the increase in the salaries of teachers in Ida-Virumaa, etc. Anyone who wishes can look after it. The idea is clear: it will increase with an increase of 30%. There are about 1,400 teachers in Ida-Viru County, more or less we also know the average salary. Rapid calculations only give an amount equal to EUR 5 million for this increase. I did not say anything about this in the Commission either. I asked a question, and I was promised that this formula would be corrected in this amendment, because it is clearly wrong. That's a lie! There will be no 30% increase, and we know that. With great surprise, I have now looked at the amendments that are in this Chamber and, in a slightly modified version, the text reads as follows: 'The targeted subsidies granted to teachers in Ida-Viru County will increase by 30% in terms of guaranteeing a minimum wage for teachers in Ida-Viru County compared to other teachers. " The wording is slightly different, but the content is the same. It is noted that compared with other teachers outside Ida-Virumaa, the minimum wage for teachers in Ida-Virumaa is increased by 30%. At the same time, we understand perfectly that this is not the case. It's not a document, it's impossible to read! Places where you can't explain to anyone what they mean will find dozens here. And that is why this document cannot be supported. I fully agree with the National Audit Office, which has stated over the years that the state budget is becoming increasingly opaque. How can this budget be compared to next year? I'd say it's a savage landlord's budget. There is a classic of Russian literature, such as the Saltykov-Schedrin, and he has a nice talk about the Wild Manor. To be brief, this manor wanted to build some ancient society in his mansion, to do everything nicely and very exquisitely. Of course, it ended when those slaves of hers who were lucky ran out, who were unlucky, died out. The Estonian state is now fully reminding us of this picture. On the one hand, the economic figures are very beautiful and can be proud, only they are of interest, all right, to the bankers, all right, to the Ministry of Finance. But what do they offer the common people? Since 2009, they are being killed, and I would argue that this is the most correct word for local authorities. Since 2009, including 2013, the difference between the amount received and the percentage in force until 2009 is equal to EUR 236 million. Next year, local authorities will lose another 52 million out of what they would have received with 19.3%. What is the foundation of Estonia will be extinct. Estonia begins in Kaarma or Lüganuse municipality, it ends in Stenbock house. But if you count this budget, it's like it's the opposite, it's like there's no need for local governments. Road repair. It is already known that, as in 2009, road repair financing suddenly fell more than three times, tens of millions, so it has continued until that year. In the following year, although the percentage remains the same, the absolute value will again decrease. Several times it has sounded here, and those who understand what road repair means have also confirmed that if this year there will be no repair, which would cost EUR 1000, then next year EUR 1000 will not be enough, but this amount will increase geometrically. Next year, this roadhole will require 2,000 euros and the next year 4,000 euros. It's a fantastic, totally indefensible war against local governments and our infrastructures! This budget is extremely childish. In 2005, school food from the state budget was then financed in kroons to the tune of EUR 0.75. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. This money has increased by three cents in eight years. In the last four years alone, inflation has eaten about a quarter of our income. What's left of the money? How can it be hoped that people will give birth to children and live with them in Estonia if they see such an attitude? I will not be able to talk about the financing reform that awaits our education system. But in short, it's a plan to wipe out the education system. Anyone who thinks will understand that perfectly. Today we say our personal views here. I am categorically opposed to this budget. It's an anti-popular budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U347	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U348	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will start my speech on what is most important for the state budget. It's the revenue side of the state budget. I dare say that the revenue side is not adequately planned. When you look at the twitchy way in which the state budget is somehow trying to strike a balance and reach the planned budget volume, it raises certain questions. At the last moment, when trying to tax businesses through VAT, to tax a private car or to use other methods, it shows that the state budget is a pretty bad herd. And if we're not on the revenue side, it's very difficult to plan something on the cost side. If our economic growth was 0.4% in the third quarter and probably stays in the fourth quarter, which is ten times smaller than the Latvians, for example, how can the growth of 3.6% be planned next year? It's kind of mysterious to me. Will the Estonian economy suddenly develop so quickly when the year and date change? From today's business day, I read the estimates of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) for growth next year. According to the EBRD, this is only 2.5% in Estonia, which is 1.1% less than in our draft state budget. I think that this is a very serious sign that there is a need for a significant change in the state's monetary policy. When I looked at the Business Day table, which reflects the corporate tax paid in 2012, it was no surprise to me that among the 21 best companies listed in this table, Bigbank is the only bank that belongs to Estonian capital. So where are our big banks, who make huge profits and who take all this profits out of Estonia? Until we have clarity on how to tax banks and make sure that this money does not serve the interests of other countries, we will also have no hope that we will be able to meet the budget priorities. Where, then, is the added value created by banks and new jobs? I urge everyone to read this chart and to think deeply about where we are going to proceed in this way. Instead of taxing our businesses, making their lives even more difficult and getting relatively small sums of money, we should pay attention to these issues. I am certainly not satisfied that the local authorities have once again been left in the orphanage. It is said that local authorities will receive a revenue base at the 2008 level. What does that mean? This means that they will not even be able to carry out the tasks assigned to them in 2008. Given that Estonia has been the country with the fastest inflation rate in the European Union, there is no physical money to cover all these expenditures. It is not possible to cover the costs of hobby groups. I ask, wouldn't it be cheaper to ensure that children are interested now rather than to spend later on the fact that they didn't have anything to do at the right time? At the same time, the issue of support specialists has been overlooked. I can assure you that most municipalities will not be able to fulfil this obligation next year if the state withdraws the funds for this purpose because they do not have this money physically. The main issue is road financing. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U349	It is a question of political choice. Is the political choice that it must be good to drive along state roads, but when we get to municipalities, or municipal roads, there should be car wrecking? If a country has such a political choice, let it be. But how is this money really going to be distributed? 40% of all roads in the country belong to local governments, but unfortunately only 10% of excise duties on fuel are received by local governments. This is a question of choice, there is no need to find more money, there is a need for political will and there is a need to understand that local authorities are also part of the Estonian state. Anyway, I'm embarrassed about the foreign guests who visit our cities and see the state of the streets. The street lighting of local authorities is also included in the same category. It was embarrassing, for example, when I was in Tartu last week at 5:00 a.m. and the city of Tartu was completely blind. I do not blame the leaders of the city of Tartu, the power of the city of Tartu, the municipalities simply have no money, and therefore choices are made where a choice should not be made. In my opinion, street lighting is one of the basic things that should be in order in Estonia, the lamps should be on fire. Darkness makes people feel depressed, stressed, etc. Failure to ensure even street lighting shows once again the situation in which local government budgets are in place. You're saying there's no way to find the money. However, it is certainly possible to find money if you look at the big business projects that the Estonian state is undertaking through its companies in Jordan or America, or the big incomprehensible viaducts that have been built up in Mäole and Virumaa. Have they, then, given the desired effect and made traffic safer in some way? Or could this money have been used much more wisely, for example, to clean up the streets of the city? If I am still thinking about investment in education and how new state secondary schools are being built in county centres, I ask who will cover the costs that must be borne because of the'semi-filled' former upper secondary school or other school buildings. If you don't look at this complex, there's going to be an increase in costs. These are thoughtless investments that take money out of our wallet, so we no longer have money for basic tasks. That is why I do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U350	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U351	Thank you very much. Please, Olga Soldier! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U352	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Each year, the World Economic Forum prepares a Global Gender Gap Report. Estonia will be the 59th most of 136 world powers this year. Last year our position was 52nd place, 47th place in 2010, 37th place in 2009 and 2008, 30th place in 2007 and 29th place in 2006 when the index was calculated. Of our neighbours, for example, Latvia is ranked 12th and Lithuania 28th. The place in Latvia and Lithuania has improved in the last five years, but the place in Estonia has mostly deteriorated. Iceland is at the top of this table for the fifth year in a row, followed again by our neighbours Finland, Norway and Sweden, and the Philippines in the fifth place. Why are we not above this table as close neighbours, but in the middle of the list, in the vicinity of Kyrgyzstan and Russia? One reason certainly is the low political participation of women. According to the political sub-indice, Estonia will be 88th place. See how many women we have here in the Riigikogu, how many in the government, how many in local government councils, municipal and municipal governments? We are still 41st in terms of our participation in economic life. One indicator for this indicator is the wage gap, which is one of Europe's largest, with a total of 30% in Estonia. But when we think, for example, of the number of successful female entrepreneurs and female leaders in large companies, this is also an indicator in itself. According to the Health Area Index, we are 34th and 59th from the level of education. Colleagues may ask why I am talking about all this during the debate on the state budget, how the pay gap and, more generally, the gender gap affect the state budget. The reason is very simple. The state budget is the main instrument through which resources are distributed between social groups. Women and men are the two largest social groups in society whose needs, interests and wishes must be taken into account when drawing up the state budget. Our financial resources are very limited, and that is why it is particularly important that every cent and every euro are spent as efficiently as possible. The use of methods of gender budgeting is very helpful here. As stated in the book 'State budget for women and men. Need-based budgeting in the public sector', budgets are never gender neutral, but reflect and restore gender stereotypes and power distribution in society. Due to the different roles and social status of women and men, budgetary decisions have different implications for women and men. Gender-sensitive budgeting can help to determine how public resources are distributed between women and men. In areas where the needs of men and women differ, the allocation of funds must also vary, i.e. meet needs. If gender inequality is to increase as a result of the budget allocation, the allocation of resources will have to be adjusted so that the national budget promotes gender equality. Several projects and studies both abroad and in Estonia prove that taking into account the principles of gender budgeting at both national and local level has brought clear benefits to the community in the fields of education and health care, reconciling family and working life as well as in many other areas of life. Gender budgeting has already started in the 1990s and sufficient empirical and theoretical material has now appeared on this issue. A book that I already mentioned was also published in Estonian in 2011 and trainings have been organised about it. I believe that quite a number of officials from national institutions are already familiar with the principles and methodology of gender budgeting. So there is a presumption that the budgets of the state budget and local authorities are more women- and men-friendly. However, there is no one necessary component; there is no political will. When we dealt with the state budget for the first time in this Chamber, I asked the Minister for Finance whether his ministry had based its budget on the principles of gender-sensitive budgeting. I replied: "We obviously have better opportunities to increase gender awareness than to draw up a budget on this basis. ' As long as the political elite does not take an interest in gender mainstreaming, we do not move, we do not have more women in politics, we do not reduce the pay gap, more children will not be born, because, as we know, where women have greater opportunities for self-realization and more opportunities to reconcile work and family life, more children will also be born. This means that Estonia will probably be at the same place next year in the World Economic Forum report, but perhaps we will fall further down. Finally, I call on all political parties to think more about equality between women and men, because this is not a marginal issue alongside other major and important issues of society. Gender equality is a fundamental principle that requires consideration in all areas as well as in the state budget. I hope that next year, even on a project basis, budget makers will perhaps start implementing gender-sensitive budgeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U353	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik! Would you like eight minutes? Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U354	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will stop at the financing of general education in the 2014 budget. We have read that the minimum wage for teachers will rise from EUR 715 to 800 next year and, in this respect, the teacher's average wage will rise to EUR 960, which means an increase of 11.2%. Unfortunately, we have only been given an increase of 4.7% in education support for local authorities in the project. According to the Minister, the increase in the wage support for teachers contained in it is EUR 8.2 million, i.e. 5.1%. The remaining 6.1% should be found by schools and municipalities in their internal reserves, or as the Minister in the Committee on Culture has made a direct statement: teachers' pay is low because there are too many teachers, there are too many schools and the municipalities are putting money away from education support. At the same time, he also said that, between two readings, there is an expectation that there will be more funding for the municipalities, that some commitments will be reduced and that the state will fund them so-called directly. To my amazement, the improvements that have been presented to us have indeed taken some commitments from the municipalities, amounting to EUR 2.7 million in total, but this money has not been left for teacher wage support, but it has been refocused on the target by further reducing the level of education support for the municipalities by EUR 2.7 million. Thus, the planned increase in education support for municipalities in the new year is only 3.3%, with which the increase of 11.2% seems quite fairytale. There is no evidence that local governments have transferred education support to other areas than education. Education support has certainly been used not only to pay teachers' salaries, but also to pay for the work of support specialists, to pay the redundancy allowance for school staff, to organise the olympiads, etc., but only for educational expenses and on the basis of the authorisation granted by the Government of the Republic decree. At the moment, these essential expenditures should come from a purely municipal budget, which means that the municipalities who have paid the teachers an extra salary will no longer be able to do so next year. However, where this has not been done, a system of support specialists is now beginning to be demolished. As regards the fact that wage money can be found by reducing the number of teachers and schools, the real situation is most clearly reflected in the funding of public schools, where budget growth is planned at 8.3% and two more public schools come in the new year. In the case of these schools, there is probably no reason to talk about closing schools or reducing the number of teachers. At the expense of what reserves can state schools raise their wages by 11.2%, it remains mysterious. The government regulation currently being coordinated, which lays down the conditions and procedures for allocating educational costs, shows, of course, one possible way in which the class is expected to be fulfilled in comprehensive school 24 and upper secondary school 32 students instead of the current estimated 17 students. The Minister of Education also said, by sending the Forum, that if there is a choice between the teacher's salary and the size of the class, he will undoubtedly choose the teacher's salary. This choice is as wise as giving a child a choice as a mother or father. All educational studies have confirmed that students' academic success is immediate and dependent on teacher qualifications and the number of students per teacher. The contrast between these two things or the correction of one account to another does not produce the slightest positive result. In replying to questions in the Monday Question Time, the Minister of Education repeatedly stressed that differences in the size of the class were caused by a regional coefficient of 1.0 to 1.95. Yes, as far as primary school is concerned, but according to the draft regulation, there will be no regional differences in upper secondary schools. This means that for upper secondary schools with fewer than 96 students, municipalities must also start to give money from their budget for the salaries of teachers, for the payment of support services and for the maintenance of the building, the costs which the state has to bear entirely in state secondary schools. It aims to create a system for strangling the upper secondary school parts of a full cycle of schools in our small towns and rural settlements. Financially unequal treatment of upper secondary school education by the state is, in my opinion, immoral and, for school and parish leaders, nothing more than to recommend that they try to endure for another 1.5 years. It is natural that both the Cities Union and the Association of Rural Governments have decided not to coordinate this Regulation. The Minister of Education and the coalition ambassadors of the Riigikogu could understand that it is not about whether the volume and model of funding for general education offered in the budget are pleasing to Mailis Reps or Jaak Alli. The point is that the demagogy that lies in it, and also the danger to our entire educational landscape, has been seen through not only municipal associations but also associations of educators. I quote the opinion of two partyless school leaders published in Postimees on Monday, 'The crazy game of school funding': 'It's starting to feel more like it's deliberately misleading the public à la 'you see, the state is giving more than enough money, but these pagan authorities or school leaders aren't paying it to teachers in any way'. ' And it really is. As a matter of fact, yesterday we could read from the IRL press release how all teachers' duties must fit into 35 astronomical hours, according to Kaia Iva, and the head of school is responsible for the teacher's ability to prepare, hand them over and repair the written work. Let me ask you how and what the headmaster is responsible for. Will he fix the notebooks for the teachers or will he pay from his own pocket? I would add that the class management fee, 74 euros a month this year, will be included in the teachers' salary next year. So today's class leaders don't expect any real raise. The rise in the minimum wage of teachers has become a kind of sacred cow or a pillar of freedom for the Minister. I'm sure the Minister will be able to raise it as a determined person, but the teacher is not interested in the budget, but in the money coming into his wallet for the same job and the same burden. However, the percentages and the amounts are already completely different. In a situation where the share of the education budget in the state budget has fallen from 7.1% in 2009 to 6.4% in 2014 and where educational expenditure increases by 3.77% in the 2014 budget, while the total budget is increasing by 4.9%, it is bizarre to ask where to find money for teachers' salaries. This is about budget priorities, which are certainly not education for now. The 5% increase in teachers' salaries in municipal schools is currently EUR 8.2 million, while the 15% increase would be about EUR 20 million. Throwing out of the budget the idea of ending the VAT concession for professional cars decided by the coalition yesterday will create a 20-million-dollar hole. Creating that hole and filling it soon won't be a problem. It follows that exactly the same could have been found in 20 million teachers' salaries if only they wanted to. Where more money can be found, this has been demonstrated by the Social Democrats in their proposals for improvement in all recent years. I would point out, even if only, that half of the tax revenue going into the chimney with the proposed reduction in income tax of 1%, which Mr Sester said today is 70 million kroons, could raise teachers' salaries by 30%. Obviously, however, there must be an even greater problem in making such decisions, and the protest of teachers must be even stronger. I think our eyes will see it again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U355	I would like to ask my colleague Kalev Kallo of the speaker's desk. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U356	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We are once again discussing the most important draft law of the year in the life of the country, which is the draft State Budget Act 2014. Unfortunately, the process of dealing with this draft also brings with it all the side effects that we have known for years and years. Again, together with the draft State Budget Act, a number of drafts were received, which, as in previous times, make the business environment worse, imposing additional burdens on businesses or reducing their revenues. This time, we've been hit by cars. The senior lawyer of the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, Martin Huberg, has correctly titled his article on this subject: 'How the Coalition wants to introduce a car tax that is not a car tax'. Of course, the additional revenue that would have to be received by the state budget if the draft were to become a law has already been included in the draft budget of the state for 2014, confident that the Riigikogu will place a rubber stamp on it. However, recalling the discussions in this Chamber only last week, where it was mentioned that the government has been uncoordinated with the Riigikogu, not to mention negotiating, redeploying and redeploying hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros, the question arises as to why we are discussing the draft budget in this Chamber at all and creating an illusion that we are really deciding something. In fact, the government will do as it pleases and place the money where it pleases. This is confirmed by the increasing lack of budgetary transparency. In answer to the relevant question, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi said that decisions had to be made quickly, you would have screwed up when discussing the matter in the Riigikogu, mildly speaking. Returning to the draft state budget and the accompanying other drafts, like fleas with the dog, gives the impression that our ministry led by the Minister of Finance has no ability to anticipate and plan more than six months in advance. There is simply a set of costs, and if it turns out that there is a shortage of revenue, there is a quick draft that can be extorted from an honest taxpayer. Entrepreneurship is a constant victim in recent years. This is illustrated by a series of budget explanatory notes: 'In contrast, financial revenues will increase by 38.2 million euros compared to the 2013 summer forecast, in particular due to the increase in owner's income. " Like money found on the ground! The summer forecast showed one possibility, but see, by autumn it became clear that there was a lot of money left over for dividends in state-owned companies. It should be pointed out, however, that this is only an additional amount, nor was the amount planned for the summer forecast a small one. Amazingly enough, on the one hand, we are saying that the crisis is not quite over yet, see, economic growth will be much smaller this year than expected. But then it turns out that public companies are like shiny islands in a foggy sea of crisis, and in a few months, it turns out that 38 million more are lying around. It turned out that this was not enough, and then a draft was quickly written, which concerns limiting the deduction of input VAT relating to passenger cars and current expenditure by only 50%. The fact that it was written in the final night to fill the budget hole is also confirmed by the fact that it was not negotiated with the representatives of any of the interest groups. Probably not because they were afraid, but because the draft simply didn't exist earlier. The minister now has to complain that the cost of a car used as a private car cannot be paid by the company, for example, by bringing a number of Member States of the European Union where this is the case. I'd love to fucking fly in here! If this is the case in many countries and we want to do so, why could this bill not have reached the Riigikogu peacefully, for example in the spring, before summer, February or March, but not a few days after the draft state budget law had been passed, where changes have already been incorporated? They might ask what I'm talking about, because the coalition allegedly withdrew this bill yesterday. I think this is all the more important because it is this act that shows how badly and secretly this draft had been prepared, even the members of the coalition's political groups understood the pointless crap that this is. It is only incomprehensible how the Minister of Finance managed to so sap all his colleagues in the government meeting that everyone believed that this was a good bill and sent it to the Riigikogu. From the same series there is a draft law amending the Law on State Fees and the Law on Traffic. The draft is intended to raise the state fees for the Road Administration and the registration procedures by 5%. In this regard, I would like to quote from the exclamation the living classics: "Come to heaven for help! ' Based on data from last year, the amount of money received from the state fees for the registration operations exceeded three times the cost of the operations, respectively over EUR 24 million and just over EUR 8 million. And now the Minister for Economic Affairs in the Commission is saying that time has passed and there has been inflation, which is why we need to increase. I'd put three exclamation marks in here! To add that the first reading of the aforementioned draft was only yesterday and the draft state budget law, where the additional revenues resulting from the entry into force of the aforementioned law have already been taken into account, we are reading for the second time today, the absurdity of the budgetary procedure still stands out very well. The question arises as to when it will end. I don't think it's gonna end in the next year and a half. And if the people make the same choices in 2015, it won't end soon. The Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs also repeatedly stressed, in answering questions, that the voter will decide, and now the voter has given the right to decide things exactly as today's coalition does. So everything is in the hands of the electorate: if he wants to, this kind of reverse and absurd budget will continue to be put together and processed in the same spirit for a very long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U357	Thank you. Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U358	Now the topic of local government. The budget negotiations between the state and local authorities for the following year are best characterised by three words: no agreement was reached. This applies both to the final protocol as a whole and to the equalisation fund, income tax, school lunch, continuing training of pre-school teachers, student literature support, student home place allowance, school transport, local roads, etc. If there's no deal, there's a confrontation. The revenues of local governments are increasing much more slowly than the revenues of the state. This is illustrated by the difference between the increase in revenue of the state and local government in the last ten years: the increase in revenue of the state has increased by 312% compared to 2002, the increase in revenue of the municipalities has only been 208%. The gap is projected to increase further: by 2017, the revenue of the state should have increased by 392% in 15 years, i.e. by nearly 400%, the income of local governments by only 239%. It is also regrettable that the share of local governments in GDP has fallen from year to year: it fell to 8% by 2012. It can be said that according to the 2014 state budget, local authorities will continue with the pre-crisis revenue base. In February 2009, the share of income tax in the local government budget was cut from 11,93% to 11,4% and the amount of helping to recover the income of municipalities with a weaker income base was reduced to just over 19 million euros. The government has now taken a course to restore the pre-crisis situation in most areas of life; this decision has not been taken on the extraordinary cut in the municipal income base. We made a number of proposals on this draft to change the budgetary base of local governments. We wanted to increase the Equalisation Fund by EUR 7 million, we wanted to increase the Equalisation Fund by slightly more than EUR 11 million for educational expenditure, and we wanted a little more than EUR 14 million for local roads. Two words have been written laconically behind all the proposals: disregard. So the total revenue of local governments was EUR 1.45 billion in 2008 before the crisis; according to the Ministry of Finance forecast, this amount will be 1.48 billion next year, i.e. an increase of 2.3%. At the same time, inflation in Estonia has been one of the highest in the countries of the European Union. So what dare I say? I'd call this next year's budget "The Skin Warm" budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U359	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U360	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Much has been said about parents who cannot provide their children with even one decent meal a day. It is also true, unfortunately, that over 40,000 children live in poverty in a country that is much appreciated by our rulers. The National Audit Office's review of the use and preservation of state assets in 2012 and 2013 has highlighted the aspect that, although the state accounts are in order, many people who live in reality, not in a living life based on a statistical average, do not feel that their standard of living has increased considerably. Coping with daily life has become more difficult. More people live in relative poverty in Estonia than in Europe on average. We must admit that Estonia's prices have caught up quickly with the European average: in 2012, they accounted for 80% of the European average, while at the same time the purchasing power of the Estonian population was 69% of the average of the 27 European Union countries, which, unfortunately, was worse than before the crisis. For ten years, the amount of child benefit has been the same. The intermediate years have reduced the purchasing power of this support from EUR 19 to EUR 12. At the same time, the state budget has grown 2.6 times. There are twice as many families in need of help as there were in the pre-crisis period. Faced with the truth, Estonia's child subsidies are among the smallest in Europe. True, the coalition has tried to reform its children's benefits, but it can be considered a complete failure. A family receives EUR 9 extra money only if it proves poverty every three months. The consequence is that, instead of the 30,000 children expected to benefit, the need-based family allowance has been paid to around 3000. Now the sea. The merchant fleet carrying the Estonian flag has decreased more than 17 times in 1992-2012. There are four out of 71 ships left. The rest of Estonia's shipowners operate under the foreign flag. In Latvia, the figure is 25, 62 in Lithuania, 42 in Finland. In this respect, the Estonian state has lost at least 2 000 seafarers' jobs and 3600 orientally 3600 jobs on land with corresponding tax receipts. It must be said that the country has rather worsened business opportunities in the maritime sector. Let us remind you, for one thing, of the too short notice in this year's budget and the repeated increases in navigation charges. In order to strengthen the competitiveness of the Estonian shipping sector, an international register should be opened, in addition to the national core register, where ships may be registered by EU shipowners. The management of these vessels could take place abroad. However, there is a need for fundamental changes in tax policy, a reduction in the percentage of social and income tax levied on seafarers' wages. This is what all our neighbouring countries have done. This is one of the reasons why more merchant ships travel under the flag of other countries. The Finnish State has even paid hundreds of millions of euros of support to shipowners. Now from marine education, the financing of which is directly linked to the budget for next year. The technical university and the marine academy are negotiating accession. The budget has planned not enough to do this with this EUR 900000 to raise the salary of the marine academy's teaching staff, but they are still below the technical university's salary level. There is also a shortage of EUR 8 million to invest in the coming years. The Soots proposed to allocate an additional EUR 900000, which would give the TUT a strong signal in December when it comes to deciding that the state would come to the aid and that they would not have to invest in marine academy infrastructure at the expense of other planned costs. The coalition ignored our proposal. You'll even know what kind of signal it sends to the mergings. The solution could also be to channel some part of the profits of state-owned companies into maritime education. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U361	Thank you. Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U362	Other parties also have their own visions. The best result would be if all the proposals in this Chamber were considered in isolation and opportunities could be found for their implementation. In my opinion, there has been no substantive debate during the budgetary procedure. Of course, we also foresee ways of generating revenue, and if there are no immediate options for implementing some of these proposals, we need to think about what can at least be changed in the near future. In the longer term, we must have the opportunity to say that we have grown new generations capable of developing a high level of industry and agriculture and that our service sector employees can handle computer-based services. And more importantly, we must be able to say that the Estonian state values our children in economic terms so much that they do not have to feel excluded either in the schoolhouse or in the tennis court. Have a successful exchange of views! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U363	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U364	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will focus on this draft budget and also on the future of Estonia. I will start by quoting the development fund from this year's thought book, which was distributed to us in the Riigikogu some time ago. Krimeltest Jaan Puusaag says in this: "Estonia's success or failure can be measured in the short term on different scales, but in the longer term, only one quart remains, whether we can maintain our nation and culture. ' It can be added that we have reached a situation where almost half of Estonia's municipalities, almost half of Estonia, according to certain criteria, are peripheral. One may ask whether our duty, honourable members of the Riigikogu, is to stop this tendency, change it, contribute to the turn for the better. I say yes. We are eager to curse that emigration results in the emptiness of young people. At the same time, we understand that the future of Estonia depends on the children born right now, on the kind of spirit and working people they grow into. We want the future of Estonia to be a country with its own industry and producing its agricultural products, not a land with cheap labour supplies. Only by developing our own land can we be sure that life in our country will be better. How do we raise the people of our future? The Social Democrats made a lot of proposals to change the 2014 state budget. One of the most important of these was to change the regulation of family benefits. Our proposal is to triple the support for the first and second children by bringing it to EUR 57.5 per month. This amount is not much, but it would give young families a positive signal of having children, as well as their confidence that they can manage to raise children economically. For the state budget, this would amount to EUR 50 million for half a year. Our young families are not leaving the country recklessly. This is a difficult step and requires major restructuring. However, unless otherwise stated, you must accept the inevitability of sending your child to a Finnish school and family to normalise your income while looking for jobs. It is no wonder, however, that the mother of some primary schoolchildren works in Finland and the father in Sweden. As a rule, the child is with the mother, but the meetings that previously took place in Estonia will be quite less frequent and the child will become more and more alien to the father. Many parents do not notice or can't fight the fact that a child sits more and more in front of a computer and spends his or her free time in this way. What if the parents don't have the money to send him to a sport or a hobby! We have proposed a new budget for each child's recreational support, which would amount to just under EUR 10 million a year. We are currently in a situation where we have prematurely broken the system of operating sports schools in previous years' decisions. Now we are talking again about the need for our sports school in every region. The theme of the circles of interest also to a large extent concerns the audience. Their pay has so far remained relatively low and the excitement expected in cultural institutions after school hours is not there. The Social Democrats have also proposed to increase the minimum wage for cultural workers. This will require a few million euros, which is not a huge amount compared to the total budget. Perhaps, though, with a slightly higher salary, there will be enthusiastic leaders of interest groups and the involvement of children in the activities of cultural institutions will be increased. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U365	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U366	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U367	Mr President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, During the debate on the 2014 budget, I was forced to come to this chair, in particular, by the appeal of farmers' organisations, which, of course, all the members of the Committee on Rural Affairs are aware of. In general, farmers' contributions in the next financial period are not burdened with direct payments in the budget. All this talk that farmers' subsidies are growing, forget it, that is not the case. The European Commission promised to pay top-up, or national support, for the transitional year, the next year, 2014. As we have heard many times in this Chamber, more than 56 million euros were made available to Estonia during the Council's negotiations to compensate for smaller direct payments and their decline in the coming years. Of course, this 56 million went to rural funds for technical and political reasons, and the top-up of 24 million is the sum of that in the vast majority of our budget is simply not. Couldn't find a way to put it there. If you read the OECD assessment, the income of companies in Estonia depends more on state subsidies than elsewhere, also in comparison with companies in other European Union countries. According to the representatives of the agricultural organisations, in 2015 and 2016, the majority of active farmers will benefit from 20 to 40% of both semi-subsistence farms and other jobs. Based on the analysis, the subsidies for the average Estonian dairy farm of about 1000 hectares will decrease by 42.7% in 2015. Other years will remain at 30% over the whole period compared to 2011. Of course, the Estonian farmer is still in an unequal position when compared to farmers from other Baltic countries. Please let us talk about things as they are: Estonia's agricultural subsidies will only reach the European Union's average level in the penultimate year of the financial period. Of course, according to current estimates. Agricultural organisations also point out very rightly the reasons. Surprisingly, the Ministry of Agriculture has a plan to implement a much higher rate of aid for the first 39 hectares. That is money from the plane, which will take away 11.9% of the total budget for direct payments. The abolition of national payments is, for example, a special premium for dairy cows and a crop premium for dairy producers and cereal producers in particular. With regard to these two reasons, the OECD study also states that the size of enterprises, which is particularly important in the crop and milk sectors, has a particular impact on economic performance. Naturally, the increase in the surface of direct payments, the increase in cultivated areas, which will certainly be more than 950000 hectares. Then there will be significantly higher funding for non-agricultural activities, although the processing industry can be justified. I would also like to point out that it is very important that the state supports the entire production chain, from the field or table to the consumer's table. But our Minister for Agriculture does not value the consumer at all, and that is why we do not find in the budget the amount allocated to the 'Estonian Food' project. I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U368	In fact, the consumer side of the production chain is not dealt with at all. We are losing consumption of black bread, or rye bread. We're going to eat more and more bread, especially for young people. Recently cattle farmers visited the Committee on Rural Affairs, complaining that there is no proper market for beef in Estonia, while complaining that there is no lamb available. The marketing of our own food is actually out of place. For example, agricultural organisations argue that supporting organic production without requiring this production would be a serious mistake. I am also bothered by the fact that there is no support for the Kodukandi movement in the lines of this budget. The Riigikogu has had a very pleasant cooperation with this organisation. This can also be proved by the Speaker of the Riigikogu, who, as far as I know, is also the patron of the election of the best villages. We've even made a collection once for Homeland. In fact, this is not quite right; these amounts should still be found in the state budget. Such a strong, all-Estonian organisation should be supported by the state. When we asked the Minister for Agriculture in the Committee on Rural Affairs how much this draft budget was intended for Homeland, he said cleverly, smiling, that the money was on the regional minister's lines. We looked there then, but we haven't found it. I very much hope that the coalition ambassadors will appreciate the movement of the Kodukand, and the MEPs who support it will find a way to allocate money to them. Otherwise, this request will be between the two ministries and maybe even forgotten. The members of the Riigikogu would not be able to support this organisation enough with their money, so the two ministries and the coalitions of the Riigikogu will have to resolve this embarrassing situation. Thank you for listening, and have a good night.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U369	Thank you. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U370	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of my speech, I will give you some examples of life itself. In March, Harju County Court sentenced a man with an axe to EUR 940 to smash a car glass and hit the driver in the head. On 19 April, environmental inspectors caught a pike-catcher during spawning in Läänemaa, who could be fined up to EUR 1200 and, in addition, charged with damages for every fish caught. On 8 August, the police fined Nina, who was not satisfied with the work of a social official, who kicked the head of a pig on the desk of a Pärnu City Government official. On 16 August the traffic police of the Southern Prefecture caught a motorcyclist on the 182 km of the Tartu-Luhamaa highway in the course of public speed measurement, whose speed was fixed by a traffic police patrol at 229 km/h. Checking the driver, it turns out he didn't have a driver's license either. A few hours later, the Tartu County Court sentenced Jaan to 25 days of detention, not only without the right of leadership. On 13 November, the courthouse of Kuressaare imposed a fine of EUR 480 on the Commissioner for the Municipality of Lümanda who falsified the application and the candidate's application. Ladies and gentlemen, As you have learned from these examples, the behaviour of offenders in our country is quite resolute. They mostly receive a heavy financial penalty, and in the event of a major infringement, arrests are imposed, not to mention penalties for serious crimes. However, what should be done in a situation where even the violation of the Constitution and the failure to enforce judgment, with repeated and deliberate violations, is the government of the Republic of Estonia? I am talking about the decision of the Supreme Court of 16 March 2010, which obliged the state to lay down the foundations according to which the tasks assigned to public authority could be divided into state and self-governance and also determine the distribution of funds for the performance of the functions of the state and local government. This decision was then discussed by the Supreme Court for more than 11 months. The Supreme Court emphasised that the government has failed to do its work and increased the revenue base at the expense of the local governments with cuts made in 2009. The National Audit Office has also repeatedly pointed out that the Government has not complied with the instructions of the Supreme Court. The National Audit Office referred to the same problem in the last report submitted to us. Finally, it is time to put an end to this violation and comply with the Supreme Court's decision. In fact, it is outrageous to make a face as if it were all right and to ignore the precepts that have been made. A meeting with local governments and their representative organisations and a discussion of mutual expectations could be started. National and local responsibilities need to be identified and their funding allocated. This has to be done honestly, not so that municipalities and cities provide services, but the state happily leaves the money in its own pocket. This could really be the start of the administrative reform that all regional ministers are talking about, but no one can do. To conclude: once again, the coalition is pushing the state budget through this hall, but the Supreme Court's decision is still outstanding. The law is broken, the Supreme Court's decision is not complied with, and nothing happens! I am certainly not the person who wants someone to be fined or even less sentenced to jail. I want the situation to change and the Supreme Court's decision to be enforced. But it seems to me that in 2015 voters who choose other political parties to lead the country will be the judges of the sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U371	Thank you. Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U372	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Madam President, thank you very much. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U373	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U374	In Estonia, the allowance paid to the first and second children has remained at the same level for ten years. The need to raise the gap so as not to say the ridiculously small EUR 19 child support has been more than obvious for many years. Therefore, in recent years, the Social Democrats have proposed three times in Parliament that child support be tripled. Unfortunately, the government coalition has not taken our drafts seriously and has not taken any other substantive steps. There are only hollow slogans about how important families with children are for Estonia, but no action will follow. There's talk about the need to give extra voice to parents and all that. Two years ago, under the leadership of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the development plan for children and families was completed, which criticises the excessive birth orientation of Estonian politics and highlights the need for universal child support. It is said, among other things, that since family life does not begin or end with the birth of a child, family policies aimed solely at birth and toddlers are not sustainable. The extent to which the state contributes to the well-being of children and families will sooner or later be reflected in the health indicators of the population, educational capacity, the level of crime in society, employment and, ultimately, the overall state of the economy. Studies in Europe confirm that child poverty is lower in countries with significant universal family benefits and parental support services, including labour market participation services. Above all, I am thinking of kindergarten places. Thus, according to studies conducted by the European Commission, the universal system is effective in preventing and alleviating child poverty, especially given the lower level of social protection costs in Estonia compared to other European countries. Nevertheless, the government coalition is only talking about a lack of support for the children of families living in poverty, paying the circa 3000 children a month for just over EUR 9. However, in order to receive this EUR 9 supplement, the family must first fall into poverty. I ask, why does a government with its own people do this to its own people? I strongly support the fact that the state and local governments must help families with economic difficulties much more than they have done so far. However, I am firmly opposed to children's benefits being regarded as part of the subsistence system. If you really want to help those in need, you could start by excluding a small EUR 19 child benefit from income support. With this bill, the Social Democrats have come out of the Riigikogu four times in recent years. Unfortunately, our initiative has not received the approval of the right-wing parties. I would argue that the Estonian government takes the example of the failed southern European countries in family policy, where universal child support is either very small or does not exist and the principle of need-based payment is applied first and foremost. As a result, the birth rate in Greece, Italy and Spain, for example, has been drastically low for some time: on average, over one child is born per woman of childbearing age. There's nothing to be surprised about. If the country only starts to support children when the family has fallen below the poverty line, then children will rather not be given birth than at risk of falling into poverty. On the contrary, our neighbouring countries are acting in the north, where all children are supported. Finland, Sweden, Denmark and Norway have a universal child support system based on the principle that all children are equally important to the state and that the costs of raising each child are the same. The state must make every effort to ensure that children's families are excluded from poverty and are forced to apply for poverty, i.e. income support, through the payment of children's benefits and services to children. This principle has been based on these countries for decades and results in almost twice the number of children per woman compared to those in southern Europe. Our finance and Prime Minister consistently argue that the use of all measures to support the raising of children and the allocation of money from the state budget is irresponsible and will bring the state to the brink of bankruptcy. But this has not happened to the Nordic countries. On the contrary, it is the competitiveness of the economy in the world with the top ten countries, countries where investing in human resources is a priority. In words, we want to be Nordic, but in action we are drifting towards southern Europe. At present, subsidies for children and families represent only 0.6% of the country's GDP. The Nordic countries, which set an example for us, have long realised that the future and success of the country depend on the future generation, they channel more than 3% of GDP into children. When will the leaders of the Estonian state understand this and finally start to contribute, not in words, but also in deeds, to children!? What language do you want to speak, honored coalition ambassadors? Where are your minds and feelings? A permanent confrontation and a tantrum, when it comes to increasing child support, and the gradual linking of child support to family misery mean the next great step on the downward steps of our birth rate and the Estonian people's survival. Dear Members, You have the levers to ensure that Estonian families and state have a future. Use them wisely, forget the coalition agreement and worldview for a moment, and think about the well-being of Estonian families and the sustainable future of the Estonian state! I am more than convinced that, if there is political will, it will be possible to triple child support for the next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U375	Now, please, Mr Velman! Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U376	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear coalition ambassadors! You can't see in the coalition hall, maybe they'll listen to us somewhere else. Of course, it is right that every budget is a choice of options. I would say that the only source of coverage for any proposal is the state budget itself, i.e. the revenue side. Now it is interesting to see how the current coalition has made its choice. The only thing determined is 2% of GDP for defence expenditure. It's like an amen in church, you can't get over it or around it. All the other things are swimming. For example, if some amount in the social sphere grows and grows to cover needs, money in other areas may be reduced. There is a well - known saying that in the last 3,000 years, physical abilities have grown very little, while productivity has increased several thousand times. Clearly, it has grown thanks to scientific, technical and cultural developments. What is happening in our education system is amazing. Although not everyone in this Chamber likes it, let us look at our closest neighbour, Finland. It's clear why there was such a thing as Nokia. Finland is one of the few European countries where funding for education was increased in 1969 and 1970. Currently, Finnish students win the first prizes in all the world's Olympiads. Experts estimate that this country has the best economic system in Europe. Work in the field of education is prestigious and very well paid. The state has very well established economic education from kindergarten to doctoral studies, and education is free of charge at all levels. A small country, as our country is, can earn income only if its productivity is high and the economy is science-based. We are taking such lands as South Korea and Singapore, which, thanks to the fact that the country has put a lot of money into education, have achieved excellent results. These countries are currently the top ten in the World Competition. No wonder that Seoul has one in four employees from education as a physicist, this is known as a thing. If we are told that we cannot link our education system and child support to GDP, we will remember a sentence that means that wars are not won by generals, by teachers who win wars. Educated people are also the best specialists in defence and economic development. The Estonian state does not value families, it does not value children. The money allocated to children's school lunch is at the same level as it was many years ago. Child benefit has been EUR 19 for 10 years. It doesn't do us all the honors. To get out of this dead circle, we need to change our selection criteria. We need to understand that when choosing the future of Estonia, we need to think first of all about these children, those students and those teachers that we now have as long as they exist. The budget that we have on the table today will continue the policy of coalition parties, which will lead Estonia towards destruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U377	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U378	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear colleagues! Kaarel Tarand has stated in Sirbis that the Estonian government has a balance fetish so dazzling that everything that moves and breathes is sacrificed to it. However, anyone who has been interested knows that the so-called budgetary balance has been a fraud and an appearance for years. What's to say besides that? There's not much to add. True, some people find our income tax to be very small. But there's another dark side to the coin. Estonian VAT is high. That means buying a book or milk is expensive. Not for a millionaire, but for a minimum wage. We Social Democrats provided for a differentiation of VAT in the 2011 General Election Programme. We considered it appropriate to introduce a lower VAT rate on basic food products, so that a person or family with a low income, every cent of God's money, should not have a heavy heart and even butter, when buying milk and cheese, would roll every cent between their fingers and ultimately replace milk with water. In Estonia, Viljandi has a city of single parents. Let's be frank, these are women in the lion's section. For some reason, our society tolerates raven fathers who are hard to force to give their abandoned women money to raise children. I understand I'm making a generalisation, which I'm sure has special cases. However, when comparing Estonia with other countries of the European Union, the substantive duty of fathers to care for their children, both materially and morally, is pretty weak, not to say quite nonexistent. How does the state support the family head, or mother, in such a situation? For ten years now, with the same EUR 19 child benefit. It can be considered a disgrace to children by the government. Gentlemen, it doesn't make you laugh, it makes you cry! By the way, we are absolute leaders in the European Union in terms of the proportion of single parents. Today's Estonian Päevaleht, Professor of Demography at Stockholm University, Livia Oláh, confirms that in Sweden the cornerstone of family policy is the involvement of fathers in raising children, and this has also affected the birth rate. If we go from here to the incomes of our single mothers, it doesn't seem to matter to our government for a little bit. While there was a question in this Chamber about the gender aspect of budget preparation, the attitude of the Minister of Finance was condescending, à la what else is this. Estonia stands out with great ignorance in terms of human development. The social dimension, or human languages, of a person as a principle, is not overly reflected in government activities. The same can be said for next year's state budget. The annual report of the National Audit Office already states exactly the same in the introduction to this important document. I quote: 'There has been no complete and systematic plan to promote life in Estonia. ' When the Auditor General made a report in front of us a week ago and answered questions, I asked Mr Karis whether the economic and monetary union of the European Union, which also includes a Member State of Estonia, could be dealt with without regard to the person and his well-being. Can we talk about money without focusing on who this holy animal makes money? The Auditor General replied very laconically: 'Can't. ' We have been a Member State of the European Union for nine and a half years. When we are held in Brussels in financial matters, in social matters, we are always a red lantern or a brake in the 28 Member States as you wish. The gender pay gap in the European Union is 16% on average, and in Estonia this figure is the largest, i.e. 28%. One of the reasons for the deep gender pay gap in Estonia is the segmented labour market, i.e. our women are concentrated in certain specialties, certain sectors. Horizontal segregation indicates that women dominate certain activities and, unfortunately, these activities have lower than average wages. For example, in the fields of culture, medicine and education, most women work in Estonia. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U379	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U380	According to Statistics Estonia, the average hourly wage of care workers in 2010 was 2.6 euros. This was more than a third less than the hourly wage of motor vehicle locksmiths, which was EUR 4.1. Thus, when women and men are concentrated in different fields of activity and occupations on the labour market, this also causes a gender pay gap when the same work is paid to everyone in exactly the same pay. At this point, let us consider how the desperation of educators has been reflected in the draft budget, from which we see the allocations for teachers' salaries. It is remembered that our mostly female teachers expressed their minds right here in front of the Riigikogu. By the way, there are many single parents among the teachers. The government had enough sense to ease the situation a little bit. As the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs said a few hours ago: it was done according to economic opportunities. However, this means that the problem of teacher pay has not been resolved, as is the case with a dignified democratic rule of law. I was extremely embarrassed to witness Sven Sester's words here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu today when he praised the Minister of Education for fighting for teachers' salaries when he answered questions as chairman of the Finance Committee. If it was a fight, it would indeed sound like the Prime Minister: "Help me in heaven! ' Social Democrats have proposed many improvements, the main one being the triple of child support. In view of all the above, I am fully convinced that I will not give my vote to the 2014 state budget prepared by the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U381	Thank you very much. Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U382	I'm gonna ask for three more minutes just in case!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U383	Eight minutes, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U384	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the representative of the coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U385	I'm in the hall too!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U386	I'm sorry! Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition! First of all, I will take care of a question that I have already raised in questioning the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Indeed, for several years in a row, I have discovered such an interesting thing at first reading of the state budget that there is either zero or minus under the staff expenditure heading of the Tax and Customs Board. And when I've paid attention to it, there's always some amount of money for second reading. I therefore have a serious concern, which I tried to express to the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs today, and it is that the Tax and Customs Board has a very important role to play in reducing the tax gaps in our country, but its development and strengthening of its power are somehow limping. Mr Sester said that tax holes are being combated by clever laws, which are very good, but it must be taken into account that the laws are still being implemented by people. Even against the most common contraband, which business takes tens of millions of euros from the country, no law will help, even if this law is similar to the Berlin Wall. I therefore think that the Committee on Monetary Affairs could in the future have a much more substantial interest in the way in which the financing of the MTA takes place in the long term, and to take into account that it is still a force authority whose activities will bring a direct addition to our sluggish budget. I believe that every euro invested in this agency will be returned several times. In short, we can still get back to the person at the Tax and Customs Board, too, the main job is done by the person, not by the law. The law is a tool. Speaking of attitude toward people, I'm getting to the children's allowance. Today, I understood from the speech and answers of the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the coalition's policy of supporting a person when he comes into this world and leaves this world should be needs-based. To survive, let everyone's personal abilities depend. The question arises as to whether such a policy is sustainable. It is hard to believe, especially when the most substantial impact analysis of the last ten years, or census, shows the opposite. It seems to me that we, as a country, are moving towards a dead end. While we can talk about the fact that employment has improved compared to the time of the depression, we are afraid to look at the fact that, to a large extent, there is a reduction in the number of people who are able to work because of the improvements in the situation. The most pessimistic forecasts in the media today show that by the 1950s, our population has fallen to a million, and I do not believe that within this million, the ratio of the number of working-age and non-working-age people is better than today. Rather, the numbers are darker. To think pragmatically, we know that every normal forward-looking and optimistic undertaking attempts are made to invigorate, above all, the area that limps most, but without which, however, further existence is not possible. In the case of a country, this is definitely the future generation, or children. We're looking for something to give our country a good boost. The greater the support the state would guarantee for children, the greater the number of children giving this acceleration, and the more powerful this acceleration will be. What, though, does the ruling coalition do? On the contrary, like kamikaze, who is determined to carry out a suicide mission. The money from the interest circles was deducted from the budget because it is not a priority. The development of children is therefore not a priority. Ten years of unchanged child support and the unwillingness to continue to increase it is also proof that children are not a priority, even if they take the matter very pragmatically and realise that our children are future taxpayers and economic promoters. Yes, it must be said that some time ago, after unpleasant scandals, the government rushed to carry out a reform of children's benefits under the leadership of the Reform Party by issuing needs-based family support. But where have we come from? Planned from nearly 30,000 children, it reaches ten times the number, a little over 3,000. And to get it, people have to humiliate themselves into being poor. In the view of the government, child benefits have become poverty benefits; this is not a family supplement that can provide additional development opportunities for the child and thus contribute to the future economy of the country. I repeat, the government does not support the activities of recreational circles. But consider that children are not blind or mute, believe me, their attitude towards their country will also become the way the country views them. The difference is, the country can't walk away, but children grow up. Ladies and gentlemen, The upcoming night work is not aimed at bullying the coalition with some narrow problem, such as child subsidies. The aim is to fight democratically for the future of our country, to fight for people who are already born or born in Estonia in the near future, and from whom we expect them to support our country in the future, an ageing society. And more importantly, they must realise our great dream and turn Estonia's population back on the path of growth. Children aren't born in this world on a need-based basis, they're born out of love. We stand for our people to love their country, too, not on a need-based basis, but in a sincere and hearty way. But before I leave this remote control, I still want to say that I'm still optimistic. The Prime Minister has said that he will never increase the amount of child benefit, EUR 19, but I believe Margus Tsahkna, the head of our Social Affairs Committee, who has confirmed that child support will increase as early as 2015. Both are prophetic statements. Ansip knows that in 2015 he will no longer be Prime Minister, and Tsahkna knows that the same coalition after 2015 will not continue. That's what gives you strength for the night hearing. One more thought. Our Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs said that the coalition's aim is not to provide fish but to provide a fishing rod. I ask this philosophical question: what is it to do with this need-based fishing line, or what will it do if the recipient is standing in the middle of a large and endless desert? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U387	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U388	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U389	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U390	At upper secondary school, you have to spend an average of eight to nine hours in school, sometimes more. Of course, the question is how a young person can eat normally at that time. In this situation, only organised school food and state support can be a solution if we really want to take care of the health of our young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U391	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Like colleagues, I also raise issues that are very important for local authorities. These have already been mentioned several times in the speeches made at second reading of the budget. First of all, local roads. I am not now talking about roads that belong to the local government infrastructure and are necessary for local life to exist. I am talking about roads of international, national and regional importance, but they remain within the limits of local government. I'll bring Narva, for example. Through the city centre, Europe goes to Estonia and Russia. It is understandable that it is used by powerful trucks and large buses and coaches. Other city streets are also available, through which you can travel to the border or bus station. Many times there has also been an increase in the load generated by passenger cars and it is understandable that these streets will be amortised much faster than other streets. The city government has to keep them in order, but there's not enough resources, because the roads are falling apart quickly, and the burden is increasing. There is not enough money for the other streets, because it takes the Master's Offices, above all, to keep the most important roads in order. I am not talking about driving comfort or aesthetics right now, I am also talking about security, because there may be problems with access to specific places for ambulances, police and rescue vehicles. We have once again raised the issue of the financing of municipal roads, but so far the responsibilities of the state and local authorities have not been able to balance this issue. That's too bad! The state budget for the coming year will also not solve this problem, and municipalities will continue to have to bear on their shoulders not only the maintenance of local infrastructure streets, but also to take care of roads of international, national or regional importance. The second issue is the cost of school food and the provision of upper secondary school. There's been a lot of talk about the price, and I'm not gonna say it again. But once again, this area has not been supported by the state budget. It is very sad that politicians like to talk about young people and how they take care of their health, but in reality the situation is again such a tone of Narva, for example, that the income of very many families is extremely low. My colleagues have already spoken very passionately about child poverty. Most families are unable to give their children daily food money and it turns out that young people are waiting to see if there is anything left at the school cafeteria. They're standing and waiting. I'm not talking about how embarrassing this is, I guess they're getting used to it. The chances of getting fed up in other ways are also limited. The break is short, and if anyone has money to buy something else, they just won't make it, because first they serve teachers and only after those students. Children are in real trouble, and often they have to be late. There is, of course, one way out: they can take home a sandwich, a yogurt or something, but it's not hot food. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U392	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia has almost 70 valid national development plans, programmes and strategies. 19 of them have been approved by the Riigikogu and the rest of the government. But when preparing another state budget, will someone at least wipe the dust off these development papers? I don't think so. The explanatory memorandum to the 2013 draft state budget refers only a few times to some development plans, most of which have not been considered worthy of mention and probably of consideration. However, these development plans have never been drawn up by the best experts in the fields with the participation of all three sectors. This is extremely disrespectful for those who do it, and even criminal against the country. Who needs a library that has a shelf-to-shell development plan that nobody reads!? If it were up to me, I'd put a "Hundred Strategy Cemetery" on that room in the State Chancellery. I admit that some of these development plans need to be brought up to date. Some have the face of their own time, the vast majority of the volume takes on all and most of the curses, and the development dimension is opened in the last pages. However, most of these development plans and strategies are essentially social agreements in a specific area, with the word being given by the best experts in the field from home, in addition to external experts and representatives of different sectors. In addition to everything, the state has spent a great deal of money on the preparation of these development documents. Who has participated in such a process knows that some development plans will last for years. During the work, there is a lot of debate, argument, agreement and finally agreement. After that, the parties concerned have a legitimate expectation that life will progress now, but nothing at all. Regardless of whether the development plan has been approved by the Riigikogu or the government, this document has already migrated there by the time the state budget was made to the'several hundred strategy cemetery'. The link between the state budget and the current development documents must be restored. The format of the explanatory memorandum to the draft state budget needs to be amended so that each ministry's explanatory memorandum begins with an announcement that such development plans are in place in the field and that, on the basis of them, such costs need to be taken into account, or that due to a lack of money, certain costs are not incurred. If the link between the state budget and development plans is not restored, any talk about planning development in this Chamber is one of great hypocrisy. The devaluation and over-exploitation of the concept of R &amp; D are also hampered by the explanatory memorandum to the draft state budget. It's used there as often as a chorus chorus. R &amp; D is well-known as a priority, but it is not possible to read out of the draft state budget law how much a particular ministry spends on it. In this way, I did not know from either the Minister of Finance or the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs how much the Ministry of Agriculture, for example, spends on research and development. On the lines of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, state fees will increase mainly due to the increase in the cost of the Road Administration's traffic register operations, which will bring in the circa 3.5 million euros next year. In this way, the principle that state fees must be cost-oriented will be progressively removed. Yesterday, Minister Parts tried to sell us customer-friendly e-services, cashing 651000 euros more from the visitors to the DMV offices. Figuratively speaking, Minister Parts tried to sell us fifty worth of rouble services for 100 euros. Speaking about the governance of MKM, the reduction in the public transport subsidy allocated to OÜ Väinamerilineine is 474000 euros. Logically, this should be followed either by a decrease in the number of trips to the islands or by an increase in the price of tickets. The debate on the state budget has not revealed any clarity. Both the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Commission have owed the answer. And what we are talking about next year's budget, as well as the EUR 600000 planned for this year's budget, with the aim of tightening up the timetables, has not yet been implemented. The answer to the question why so, simply is not given. According to the Postal Act, the state budget supports the home transfer of periodic publications in rural areas. Like this year, EUR 1.278 million will be planned for this purpose next year. Despite the turnover of 30 million euros, Eesti Post plans to increase the price of this service by 3.4% next year. The price increase will be borne by the county newspapers and their subscribers. The State does not consider it possible to participate in the compensation of price increases. We did not support this amendment in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The current procedure of the draft budget for next year has given a very pathetic impression. The Minister of Finance said little and said nothing. The Chairman of the Monetary Commission said a lot, but he didn't say anything. I would like to see a time when the state budget will also be drawn up on a needs-based basis. The draft state budget on the table today is not worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U393	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U394	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U395	Thank you very much. I give the floor to my colleague Valeri Korb. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U396	Ladies and gentlemen, After my first reading of the bill, I spoke with some local government leaders. I think that we are really paying attention to the income base of the local government when discussing the state budget year after year, and we are talking about securing a revenue base based on the European Charter for Local Government, in order to ensure that local governments have the necessary revenue base to carry out their duties under law and enable them to make the necessary investments to implement the local development plan and guarantee the sustainable development of local governments. However, unfortunately, we must state that the 2014 state budget does not once again provide for money to increase the financial autonomy of local authorities, to develop partnerships and to strengthen cooperation between local authorities. The share of municipal income tax in 2013 is 11,57%, and in 2014 it will only increase by 0.03%. The Equalisation Fund will only increase by EUR 616300. At the same time, it has not been taken into account that the revenue base of the municipalities receiving the resource tax on natural resources is decreasing and that they need to receive support from the Equalisation Fund. In view of the fact that electricity prices will also rise in 2014 and this will lead to an increase in the price of all other services, as well as an increase in the minimum wage of 11%, the local government's income base should increase significantly more than planned. I went and studied my favorite Kohtla-Järve budget. The figures show that an increase in the minimum wage of 11% will require at least 10% of the city government to raise the salary of all the employees of the institutions administered by Kohtla-Järve City Government with an additional amount of EUR 1.5 million. It must be allocated to staff costs. Income tax revenue is forecast by the Ministry of Finance to increase by 8,4%, which brings EUR 1.4 million to the city budget of Kohtla-Järve. Therefore, the higher electricity and heat costs will not be covered, not to mention the money needed for development. It has to be said that the pollution charge received by local authorities has decreased from year to year and no funds are foreseen in the draft state budget to compensate for this. The 2014 state budget also reduces the support for local road storage by 4.5%. We consider it unfair that local roads account for 40% of the total length of Estonian roads, but only 10% of the state road money goes there. In fact, money is needed to maintain them twice as much as allocated in 2013. We know that the delegation of the Municipal Associations' Cooperation Council proposed to increase the support for local roads by 56 million. Go on. In the context of the 2014 state budget in the field of general education, it is important that Minister Aaviksoo has promised to raise the salaries of teachers, and this has been discussed for a long time in this Chamber. The Minister promised that the minimum wage for teachers would rise from EUR 715 to EUR 800 per month, i.e. by 12%. However, we can read something else from the state budget: only 5.1% of teachers' salaries are planned to rise. The OECD Education Review also states that unlike other European countries, the share of education expenditure in the Estonian state budget has not been increased. If there is not enough money in education, what will be the cost of teachers' pay? In order to ensure this wage increase, the amount of money in education will be increased and the responsibilities of the local government increased. In the current wage-raising scheme, the share of teachers' training money will decrease to 1%, school repairs will disappear, and any support for activities of interest in school. From now on, the state will only allocate money to the salaries of teachers, to the acquisition of textbooks and to support school lunches. In addition, the state budget does not provide any support for the salaries of school support specialists, nor is there unreasonablely little provision for the salaries of the Director and the head of study. However, this savings also does not provide an opportunity to pay teachers the EUR 800 allowed minimum wage. This will change the basis for all funding: school-based funding will become the basis for local government funding. A lot has been said in this hall about the problem child of local governments, which is, of course, a school lunch. Also in 2014, the allocations for school lunch will remain at the same level as for several years, although food prices have increased considerably. There's been a lot of talk about it. Food money only €0.78 per day does not allow students to offer high-quality food. We believe that this amount should be at least EUR 1. Unfortunately, we cannot support the draft in the form it is presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U397	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U398	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Who doesn't like wealth, who doesn't want to be rich, I guess most people do. This survey has not been conducted in Estonia, and there is probably no need to do it. But in the case of wealth, there is always one problem: one million is still missing. Riches are defined differently. Many believe that wealth means a large amount of money in a bank account. Many, though, feel that those who think that way have fallen to the top of their heads. Riches mean not only a great deal of money, they say, only children and children, all children, can be regarded as real wealth. The more children in the family, the richer the family. The more children in the country, the richer the country. The abundance of children in the country speaks of the existence of very valuable capital, the existence of wonderful human capital. Is there enough in our country? Do we know how to hold that value? A rich country with children means that in a long time, the government has done something very important to make sure that there are many small people. In this case, the government has clearly prioritised children and has created many opportunities for them to develop, guaranteeing them rights alongside their responsibilities. The children's environment is secure, with family allowances and other support systems being provided, as appropriate, to help those in trouble. Does all this apply to Estonia? Estonia has such capital. And the existence of such capital is of special value, because the survival of our country depends on such capital. Every little support for children, every little help for families is appreciated and thanks. At the same time, there are things that the government has failed to do or wanted to do in our country. By striving for sustainability in the country, children have not been considered a priority. How has it happened that on 1 January, ten years will come from the last time the country helped families with children and increased the support of the first child? How has it happened that the Prime Minister exhorts the people to obey and assures them that the EUR 19 subsidy is not small? What has happened when we see a family full of children on the street? Something has gone wrong in the country's design. When we deal with the state budget today, we feel that we have found sources of cover for a large number of second-rate items, but our future article, our children, has not been covered with revenue. All children are important to the country. Children are not the wrong numbers in mathematical designs, which can simply be wiped off with an erasing gum if you go wrong to write more beautiful and correct numbers instead. The children are born and will be by our side. In order to ensure a little more effective support, child support needs to be increased. The current EUR 19 child benefit is non-existent at current prices. Raising child support to a triple level has been the long-standing desire and will of the Social Democrats. What is happening here today is proof of that. The state budget must and can be changed to cover an increase in child support, which is not large in view of the whole budget: only EUR 100 million. Many European countries support children. In contrast, support is provided both financially, through tax incentives or through the provision of free services. In most European countries, direct financial support represents the largest share of the total cost of family policy. Historically, the main objective of family benefits has been to reduce child poverty or to prevent them from falling into poverty. The fact that this government does not place us among the five richest countries is confirmed by the ever-increasing economic indicators. For many indicators, we have fallen among the last five, including children's benefits. Prime Minister Ansip has once said that such a child benefit system is not effective, and that is equivalent to seeding money off an airplane because many do not need it. Yet, by legitimizing maternity pay, taxpayers' money was planted in the yard where it already existed. It is the poverty of families with children that is the most worrying in our country. Poverty is a particularly acute problem for children because children living in poverty do not have the opportunity to do anything to change their situation. They depend on adults. In Estonia, nearly one fifth of children live in relative poverty: over 45000 boys and girls. Neither has there been systematic child protection and child supervision, child care. Child welfare and child welfare are primarily organised in Estonia by local governments. The analysis carried out by the National Audit Office confirmed that the organisation of child protection work in local governments does not provide assurance that the help reaches the child in time to prevent problems. In the care of children, the state has been too tidy in legitimizing the rules of the game, according to the National Audit Office. Municipalities cannot stand up for the welfare of children as much as they are heavily underfunded. There is no reason to hope that instead of dealing with the consequences, the emphasis will shift on avoiding problems. The entire system of government is also limping. The OECD report, which was drawn up a few years ago, contained a thorough analysis of the Estonian state. The emphasis was placed on the functioning of the central government and on ensuring the quality of public services at municipal level. It was noted that, in the long term, the country must take account of the changes caused by the demographic situation. Given that a country needs a competitive and educated population, it is already necessary to start improving the situation. The Socialist proposal to triple child support is a serious step in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U399	Thank you! Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U400	Thank you. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to ask for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U401	That's a shame! But I'm trying to make it work, and I'm focusing on the most important thing. After all, the Minister of Finance has said about this bill now that it has said that it is the best draft budget that has recently been drawn up. Unfortunately, this cannot be accepted in any way. The same cannot be accepted for substantive reasons, but the criterion of truth is practice and it must be said that this draft, in its form, also has a large number of shortcomings. Above all, I am thinking of the legislative changes that have been made very hastily, which should increase the revenue base, but the implementation of which is very difficult because the draft has not been coordinated with the various stakeholders, as should have been done according to good legislative practice. It happened that opposition ambassadors did not have to be those who would say that the amendments to the VAT Act and the Income Tax Act relating to passenger cars were, in substance, a failure. It was acknowledged by the coalition, witnessed by representatives of the Reform Party and the IRL. Now both the minister and the Riigikogu are facing a pretty interesting situation where additional sources of income must be sought. The most bizarre sources of revenue proposed by the IRL and Reform Party, i.e. without any analysis, increase the sale of state assets and increase the dividend income of state companies. In other words, these are sources of cover that people, including the Minister of Finance, have been quite critical of. This is not the case in the form of a good bill. If you continued to dissect the contents, you could have read last year's speech, and it would have been absolutely topical. I don't think anyone could say this isn't about the bill this year. In fact, the problems that prevail in our society have also been overlooked in this draft, so that they can be described as structural in Estonia. If you focus on some of them for a limited period of time, perhaps one important issue that has passed on from last year is the issue of teachers' pay. The government, led by the Minister of Education, declares that the position of teachers in society should be significantly improved. At the same time, only 5% more money can be found in the area of education so that local authorities can pay teachers better wages. It is true that the minimum wage for teachers will be increased by 12%, which in practice means that as the money is given 5% more, while the minimum rate will increase by 12%, the majority of teachers will have to accept even a lower wage increase than 5%. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance forecasts that the average salary in Estonia will increase by over 6% next year. In the light of logic, it must therefore be said that teachers' position in society is not improving, but is deteriorating financially. And that is a very serious problem. Therefore, the Social Democrats have also proposed an amendment whereby teachers' pay should rise twice as fast as the average salary, i.e. 12%. I will talk about child support for this limited period of time, which is undoubtedly the most important issue for the social democrats. Sadly, the development of things has not refreshed our souls. It is the opposite. Namely, as has already been mentioned many times in this Chamber: for ten years the support of the first and second children has remained the same in Estonia. In the meantime, there has been a high price increase, while wages have risen. However, the purchasing power of this EUR 19 introduced in 2004, when compared to the price of the food basket, has fallen to EUR 12, as food prices have increased by around 40% in the meantime. Even in 2004, it was not a lot of money, but now it can afford much less. It seems that at least one of the coalition partners is aware that the issue is topical. The so-called income support reform has been carried out. Unfortunately, instead of a substantial reform, it recalls not the most successful PR project, which might even find its place in some marketing textbooks. There was a need-based family allowance, with 9 euros for which a person has to prove his or her failure. How effective has it been? It is best to measure this by the number of beneficiaries: if it was assumed that approximately 30000 families could benefit from needs-based family support, then in fact, this support has been applied for and received only a tenth of it. It could be said that this reform and the PR project have failed in every way. It is said that increasing child support is costly. It is true that the triple of child benefit is absolutely reasonable at the price tag. However, it cannot be said that the cost of this measure is the reason why it has not been done. In fact, over the same ten years, the state budget has more than 2.5 times increased, and no kroons or euros have been found in such a decent growth to increase child support! There is no reason to claim that this step is simply behind money, rather it is a question of wanting. If we compare the amount needed to triple child support with Estonia's GDP, this would amount to only 0.5% of GDP. Here, the money has been found in the meantime for considerably higher expenses. Therefore, the Social Democrats have proposed an amendment to the draft state budget to triple the amount of child support. This would cost EUR 50 million next year, and for that we also have a source of cover: a share of revenue exceeding EUR 14000 per year could be taxed at 26%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U402	Although it is probably not enough for all the issues that I would like to talk about to be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U403	No more.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U404	Of course, three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U405	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U406	Mr President, maybe I'll stay and chat. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U407	Definitely! It's nice to chat.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U408	Ladies and gentlemen, Old people's wisdom is where you see the mistake, come and help. So I came to the Committee on Monetary Affairs and to help our budget makers, and I put forward a number of good proposals to change the state budget. I will also tell you about these two boards, namely Amendments 248 and 249. They're about voluntary salvation. I was delighted to attend last Thursday's festive event: The Ring opened a fire station with a team of volunteers. 20 men with happy faces, received everyone at the door; the mood was sublime. At the same time, in the corner of the garage, they had the best Volvo spray car from the second half of the 1970's, which was obtained years ago from Finnish officials. As I drove from Rõngu to my home Rõuge, I also decided to look at the depots of volunteer sprayers on the road. What picture did I get? Sangaste, 30 men, the best bouncing fist ZIL-131, which had just crashed a few months ago, the year 1983. Next, in the municipality of Antsla Tsoru sprayers, two old Soviet cars in their home garage, in very bad condition, but still in working order. Old Scania, released in 1974 from Finland, and ZIL-131 in 1989. Dear friends, this is the rescue capacity of our Estonian volunteers! A similar picture was seen during the summer at a voluntary assembly in Lake Four and Aegviidu, where the average discharge time of the cars at the parade was the second half of the 1970's. I'm sure we all agree that our volunteers deserve new protective clothing, good technology, new equipment. They're doing the same job as the professional ones. They do their job just as well, but they have to do it with old and demolished equipment, which is often more expensive to support than the new machines. That's why the Rescue Board and the Home Office are handing everything over to volunteers, because they're expensive to support. There are 105 volunteer rescue commandos in Estonia, with 1,400 men and women. There are also 30 marine rescue teams in Estonia with about 200 people. For rescue teams, the Rescue Board is planning EUR 50000 for car maintenance in the next year's budget, which we are working on today, which is less than EUR 500 per command. Good friends! If we take the car to the service, what is the one-time service bill? Only 1.2 tires per year can be purchased for a spray car with the money allocated. Under the Rõuge Command cars, there are 16 tires, oil changes and other maintenance requirements. In order to worry about protective clothing, the Ministry plans to allocate EUR 123000, which is just over EUR 1000 per command per year. But for 1,000 euros, you can't even get one new set of protective clothing. It is the case that our stores hang old clothes from Finland, Sweden and Norway, with which our men and women have to go to the scene. That is why the proposed amendment to the state budget was able to allocate EUR 1 million to the Rescue Board so that volunteers could acquire new protective clothing and new equipment. In this area, which we consider to be a priority, we cannot talk about a two-percent or 10% increase, because four-to-five years ago we started from quite zero. Such a small increase doesn't satisfy the needs. It is very important to maintain the motivation of the rescuers to volunteer for this hard work, and I dare to assure you that proper equipment is something that will increase the motivation of men and women. Unfortunately, voluntary rescuers are left alone. In 2010 the Riigikogu conference hall gathered all over Estonia's voluntary rescuers and founded their own umbrella organisation, a voluntary rescue union. Both the Rescue Board and the Ministry of the Interior contributed to this, but unfortunately it must be acknowledged that all these years up to today the Ministry has not been able to find from its budget the small amount of EUR 100000 needed to finance this umbrella organisation in order to cover its operating costs. At the same time, we all know that it is the Salvation League that motivates the creation of new rescue commandos across the country, motivates people to enter it and organises training, meetings and annual super-Estonian assemblies for them. This is important and necessary work and we need to find money from the state budget to do this. Good friends! There are a lot of problems in the draft state budget on our table today, which many of you have also pointed out. I ask you not to ignore this important area as voluntary salvation. I would like to propose to you, good colleagues, that we support Amendments 249 and 248 of the draft budget. This would ensure the long-term operation of volunteer rescuers in these commandos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U409	Thank you! Please, my colleague, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U410	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been a member of the XII Riigikogu for almost two weeks and I must say that I was able to come here during an undoubtedly extremely interesting period. In addition to being caught in the midst of heated budget discussions, I have also heard extremely heated debates in the Committee on Education and Culture on the reform of the upper secondary school. However, the debate on the 2014 state budget is not unnecessarily heated. Coalition politicians constantly confirm that this is the best budget ever made, but there are still a number of problem areas. I am pleased that I am a member of the Committee on Education and Culture of the Riigikogu, and that is where the biggest problems of Estonia's future will arise. As many previous speakers have already said, children need to be given more consideration. I believe that all parents in this Chamber consider the child's well-being and a successful future to be one of their main objectives. It is also important to think of this in drawing up the state budget and leading the life of Estonia. What's the point of a country that doesn't count on children? It is precisely in view of the prospects of the future that there is no point. Much has been said about child poverty, family support and education. I believe that this is not a futile scream, but an urgent attention to the question of Estonia's sustainability. The amendments proposed by the Centre Party Group to change the state budget focused on children on two important points. We want public support for school food to grow, and we also feel it is essential that the salaries of school support specialists, logopaedics, psychologists and special needs teachers be paid out of the state budget. These proposals have repeatedly sounded in the speeches of the MPs, and they are likely to sound even more. That's what's important to keep our message ringing. I hope that from the 2014 state budget procedure, no matter how long it will be, people will be reminded that the opposition of the Riigikogu requires a smart approach to children and education. Policies must be sustainable and continuous, not reform to serve political points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U411	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Neeme the Great! Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U412	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will focus my report on the circumstances that should be concerned primarily with those colleagues whose heart is on the preservation of the democratic regime in Estonia. I would like to draw your attention to the process of dealing with the state budget, the frame in which the budget picture is drawn. The state budget is one of the most important documents determining the functioning of the state next year, which the Riigikogu confirms as a law. The drafting of amendments is a natural process. However, in view of the budgetary procedure in the Riigikogu, the question arises not so much about how many amendments the opposition has tabled, nor about how long it takes to vote on proposals, nor about whether none of the 400 proposals really are worth the support of the coalition, rather than whether the members of the Riigikogu and the political groups are even able to make a proposal that would be approved in general terms. Once the amendment has been received from the opposition, the likelihood of it being passed is very low. This is simply because in each of these cases the power parties deal primarily with political damage/benefits, not in terms of the quality of the substance. If the proposal is presented by coalition parties, then there should be, as if, every possibility that it will find its way into the state budget law. Unfortunately, we can see that neither the political parties in the coalition nor the individual MPs are proposing amendments. Here, I must mention the proposal made by my fellow Members, Mr Raidi and Mr Herkel, to reduce the funding of political parties, but this too went under water. We hope that their group will propose to vote on this amendment. At this stage, 402 amendments have taken account of the first revision of the Ministry of Finance through the Committee on Monetary Affairs itself and, in part, of one SDE proposal, which overlapd with the proposal of the Ministry of Finance. This raises the question of what is the point of such a procedure on the budget at all. What is the point of bringing the budget to the Riigikogu if the members of the Riigikogu cannot change it in practice? The opposition can't, but coalition politicians just don't try. The budget cannot be changed not because the law or the rules of procedure of the Riigikogu do not allow it, but because the culture of governance introduced by the coalition does not provide for it. Is the point of the process so that members of the government can later refer to the Riigikogu as the responsible body in this Chamber? But what function has the culture of governance introduced by coalition partners for the Riigikogu as a legislator, after all? I don't want to answer that question. Just now, in this Chamber, we have listened to the presentation by the Minister of Finance of the country's 2012 annual recapitulative report, including an overview of the implementation of the state budget. Last year's state budget implementation report states that the Ministry of the Environment had an initial budget of nearly 480 million euros, while the final budget was 277 million. More than EUR 200 million moved elsewhere in the budget, accounting for about half of the budget of the Ministry of the Environment. When I asked the Minister of Finance why the proposal to change the budget had not come before the Riigikogu, the minister replied that the law did not require it. However, the basic law of the state budget provides that changes to the budget must be brought before the Riigikogu. And even if the law did not provide for this, such major changes would be directly ignoring the meaning and meaning of the process of drawing up and approving the state budget without the approval of the decisive body. Ladies and gentlemen, Why am I talking about this? I am talking about this because we are in a situation where the state budget becomes increasingly difficult to read and less informative from year to year, and this has been argued by the National Audit Office and acknowledged in the recent debate by the rapporteur, where the budget is not subject to any changes in the substance of the Riigikogu, and the second side of the hall does not bother, where the execution of the state budget itself and the state budget does not coincide, as the National Audit Office has pointed out for many years and as practice confirms, where the budget approved as a law is amended to the amount of hundreds of millions of euros and the Riigikogu is only informed afterwards. And they think it's the right thing to do. How can we assess this situation? It cannot be described as'money matters in order' with a word pair. I see this situation as a threat to parliamentary democracy in Estonia. The National Audit Office has also referred to the decrease in the role of parliament. Everyone who thinks at all on both the opposition and the coalition side should be very concerned at the moment. This whole thing comes up again when the new basic law of the state budget comes to second reading. If you come from the form to the content, then an interview has just been published in Päevaleht with a Swedish professor of demography who says to Estonia: it is not too late, but if you do not invest in children now, it will soon not help. What are our budget priorities for next year? Children's and family policies are clearly not among the priorities. When the Auditor General presented his annual review, he spoke first of all about human property as the country's most precious asset and received merciless criticism from the Heads of State. Ladies and gentlemen, especially on the coalition side. It is not too late to contribute to children's upbringing, family security, strong municipalities, economic development, access to education and health care. It is not too late to return to the path of democracy and process the budget in the Riigikogu in essence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U413	Thank you! Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U414	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speakers have spoken in very detail about the budget and have referred to shortcomings. And these are the kind of deficits that give every reason to sit here at night. The coalition behaves in its usual way: no matter what you propose, no suggestion is right. They ask where the shields are, and when they're found, they're not gonna work. At the same time, as it turned out today, the coalition is using exactly the same sources of cover to fill tax holes, and they are very well suited. What is it if it's not demagoguery? In the budget debate, there is quite a lot of talk about where to put the money and how much to put it. Unfortunately, we are again in a situation where the government coalition is talking about how well we are doing and the opposition is talking about how badly we are doing. Whether we're actually doing well or not is relative. Just like poverty or wealth is relative. Now and now, one thing is quite certain: the 2014 budget is only seemingly balanced, so-called relatively balanced. It is also relatively likely that economic growth will be smaller than expected and that the state budget will have to be simply turned around at some point, and in the near future. What does that mean in the long run? Expected wealth may not reach our courtyard at all. Why don't you take your hand and bury that hopeless hope of wealth? Why don't we just pick up and try and invest in people? We all know very well that people are for love, things are for easy use. However, the current general attitude is that things are loved, but people are used and just thrown away. This attitude is tolerated precisely from this hall and, unfortunately, it is almost impossible to argue against it. What's the biggest mistake? If the government coalition can't love all people in the same way, maybe we could choose a little smaller company: take and invest in our children. It would deal with issues related to children's benefits, school meals, education. Kids, this is the source of our future wealth. If we don't invest in children today, we'll never be rich. Unfortunately, when I look at the 2014 budget, I do not see any efforts in this direction, and that is something that I am deeply sorry about.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U415	Thank you very much, Peter Võsa. I would now like to ask my colleague, Enn Frontland, to speak on the floor. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U416	Ladies and gentlemen, Each country's annual budget is a process that lasts for months and the document itself, of course, is alive and developing in change. It is known that the Estonian economy is far from having the best times. According to Statistics Estonia, our country's economic growth slowed to 0.4% in the third quarter, which, given the potential error, may even mean a small minus. I would like to remind you here that economic growth has shrunk from 10% to almost zero in two and a half years. Compared to Finland, our figure is still not very poor. However, compared to Latvia, the question arises as to why they have managed to achieve an economic growth of almost 5% under the same conditions. Estonia's economic growth has been hindered by both the construction and agricultural and real estate sectors. The situation is complicated by the fact that our economy has grown faster in good times than in other bad times, unfortunately in the same proportion. The same applies to the current account: several hundred million euros plus the transformation into just as big a minus as a year, which is likely to grow further. At the same time, Estonia has been an effective exporter, surpassing the figures of our fellow fates, Latvia and Lithuania. Unfortunately, in addition to the Finnish economy, our second country of export in Russia is also poor. It is also alarming that there are hardly any who can predict future economic trends. Let us not forget that the European Union's budget for next year will fall by nearly a tenth compared to this year, which, in monetary equivalent, will reach a huge amount. Inevitably, the question arises as to whether Estonia's draft state budget for next year, drawn up on the basis of much more optimistic forecasts, still responds to the changed situation and is adequate. Can Estonia guarantee a wage increase of just over 5% on average in the state sector, and if so, what is the price of this wage increase? Is it not the loss of too many jobs and the redundancy of people? The annual report of the National Audit Office states the bitter truth: Estonia can no longer postpone important choices and decisive decisions. The National Audit Office has acknowledged that the coalition has not had a comprehensive and systematic plan to promote life. However, the country's annual budget is certainly part of the overall development plan, perhaps even a decisive part. However, it is difficult to predict that the number of departures from Estonia will decrease after the next year's budget has been analysed. Social and health funding is still poor, even on the European Union average we are almost twice as low. It is also bad that the drafts of the Estonian state budget, as well as the explanatory notes, actually contain less and less information for understanding and analysing the budget. Within a few years, the explanatory memorandum to the draft state budget has decreased almost three times, but it is remembered that opposition ambassadors criticised the lack of transparency of the draft budget for 2009. The proposals of the Riigikogu of the Estonian Centre Party are clear and understandable; our priorities are known. We hope that when voting on amendments, coalition ambassadors will be able to give real substance to the often stated principle of formality, that the coalition will willingly cooperate with the opposition and develop dialogue. It will soon be an excellent opportunity. If the amendments that are important to us are rejected, it will be impossible for the Centre Party Group to support the draft state budget. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U417	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Helmen Hunter! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U418	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good evening. The 2014 state budget, which is being processed in this Chamber today, is the face of the authors. Unfortunately, the coalition has not even fulfilled its promises with this budget, which actually gave the mandate to the Riigikogu. People believed in the promises, they believed that they could be sure that the Estonian thing was being done and that the promises, for example, for every child, would be fulfilled. That promise was not fulfilled. A debate has been held in this Chamber on whether it would be necessary and justified to give additional votes to parents according to the number of children in the elections, in order to better protect children's interests. The party that advocates this principle is currently in coalition and power. What interferes them with better protection of their children's interests? Is the need-based family allowance really the solution? I am thinking in particular of single- and two-child families, because knowingly the birth of a third child is still a prerequisite for having two children. The prognosis that some 30,000 families would benefit from need-based family benefits was not fulfilled. It should also be mentioned that the amount of this assistance per child is EUR 9 59 cents. As of 3 November 2013, only 3250 families, or less than 10% of the forecast, had applied for needs-based family allowance. Last year, during the 2013 budget procedure, I drew attention to the fact that the planned need-based family allowance, which concerns families with one and two children, does not work, together with many of my colleagues from this platform, is not going to produce the expected result. This is because of the small amount of support, but above all because of the degrading way in which it is applied for. The people of Estonia should not be forced into a situation where they must go to prove their poverty and write applications in the local government, depending on the number of children, to receive EUR 9 59 cents or EUR 19 18 cents. Even applicants for income support must write an additional application at the Social Security Office in order to receive needs-based family support. Social workers in local governments, however, currently have a role to play in collecting evidence rather than in preventive and other social work. The Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out in his review that there is, in fact, only one social worker in many municipalities. There is no separate child protection worker and the workload of social workers is already approaching the critical border. The Estonian Social Work Association also acknowledged this at its V Social Work Congress and raised the issue of the heavy workload of social workers and the risk of their burnout. However, I consider the idea of the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs to be particularly dangerous, so that school food can become needs-based. I think that the right decisions of the re-independence Estonia were to guarantee free school food for students until the ninth grade as well as for VET students. Actually, it should be extended until the end of the 12th grade. This is not only a social policy decision, it is also a question of the state's defence capabilities. Even now, many young people are not qualified for military service because of poor health. Both social scientists and nutritionists have stressed the great importance of warm school meals for the good health of young people. After the war, the Finnish state decided, paying its war debts, to give all schoolchildren a warm meal. That's what's happening right now. They understood that the state was only strong if it helped parents and children not only in a short period, as is the case in Estonia for 1.5 years when parental benefits are paid, but throughout the period of child growth, there are various universal benefits and services. Unfortunately, in Estonia, support for children and families is based on the concept of 'need-based'. Social Democrats don't think that's the right attitude. I draw attention to the large differences in parental benefit payments and the desire to reduce the current income tax rate to 20% in 2015. It still supports more those who serve more, the concept of necessity is forgotten. Finally. If Estonia continues to introduce the principle of necessity in the payment of child and family benefits, young people will choose countries where raising children is safe and support for families is a normal obligation of the state. Our young people leave Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U419	Thank you very much. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U420	Thank you, Madam President. I'm asking for eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U421	Thank you. Good friends! The financial year will be over again, and you and I will be back in a nightclub called the Riigikogu. Please don't get confused with the nightclub, Parliament, we don't have a thing for that, there's gonna be a beating. This time we're here under the soccer-shared red socialist stigma. When this sign was shared, I did not understand who should bear it: those who prepared the budget, those who pushed through the budget or themselves who have been in the government for this ten years of shame. Today, however, according to the teachings of their classics, the Social Democrats have the right thing to do. In its ultraliberal development, our country has indeed reached a dead end, just as the Auditor General has rightly pointed out, who has painted a rather gloomy picture of Estonia running out of taxpayers and, in the future, sitting in front of the store, the old people who have no hope of having someone paying them a pension. Our Prime Minister has pushed the National Audit Office hard for pointing the finger at the government's failures. Apparently, the Prime Minister is stuck in the ideals of his communist youth and has not realised that the National Audit Office is not, as it once was, a repressive body at the disposal of the government that can be sent here or there to hang or shoot someone. The National Audit Office is the first assistant to the government to point out that you see that you have missed a bit, you have done it wrong, fix it, be so good. In any case, the Centre Party respects the National Audit Office and completely agrees that things are not what they should be. The priority of the Centre Party is children, as we firmly believe. Children should also be the budget priority. Because, you see, on an empty stomach, children can be done quite successfully, but they don't grow them on an empty stomach. That 19 euros, which is child benefit, is not getting anything for that! Three times you get to see a pediatrician with a kindergarten child, but you don't buy medicine anymore. Where's the money from the children's interest groups? It is not just about entertaining children, it is also an extremely important component in the fight against alcohol. Children's circles of interest are a sensible activity for our youth. Where is the reimbursement of study loans? The Centre Party is demanding school food for just one euro! Good people, I ask: what is the statistically average cost of the Estonian government minister's lunch? We just want one euro for the kids to offer them lunch. It's hopeless to talk about dental care. This is a strategically dangerous question for the Government of the Republic, because when people have teeth in their mouths, they demand food! Who needs it?! And, after all, I would like to remind you that even the funeral allowance has been taken away, so there is no way to leave this world with dignity. There you go! But what does our government support? Greece, of course, is the first answer that comes to mind. Greece is supported, yes, and also defends Estonia's freedom in every corner of the world where it smells of oil or opium. And under Jõhvi, he's building this kind of multi-level intersection in front of which Detroit is gonna explode. I go there quite often, and I rarely see anyone driving on this fantastic facility. You just don't have the guts to drive there. You don't know how to get off without a GPS. The government has neglected public transport, paintings. People who live somewhere in the village cannot access the centre, they cannot access the pharmacy, the post office, the doctor, because the bus goes once a day. When you go to a doctor, you have to stay with someone in town. You don't even think about it! What else does the government support? He's hosting a huge media empire called national broadcasting. What for? You could buy ten minutes on a private channel, tell the proud news to the Estonian people, but ETV, ETV-2, Radio 2. By the way, Radio Two, do you know there are 77 hostes on the payroll and still welded to the entertainment portal menu.err.ee. Look! Yeah, they're trying to do some little social or social network freaks like that. Why does the state have to maintain it? I also want to talk about the fence around the President's castle. No, that's not what I'm gonna do. It's basically a cheap solution. If it has indeed become apparent that the President must fear his people, then let us build a fence around the President. It is certainly cheaper than the entire Estonian nation to put it in the wall. And now from the Estonian National Museum. You know, it's got all the cultural people on their feet. Bury 63 million euros of dead concrete! But people, the Estonian people are alive! Culture exists, but it must be supported. We need to invest in living people, culturalists, not start building a tomb monument or a pyramid for our people, which, thousands of years later, should remind us that people once lived here. The Estonian people are not yet dead. This 63 million euros would be 256 euros for every child in Estonia. It's totally tangible money. The Estonian Constitution says that our main objective is the preservation of the Estonian people and culture. In the case of such a budget, can we say that the Estonian people will be preserved and Estonian culture will be preserved? With this budget, the government wants another stone for the tomb monument of the Estonian people and it cannot be in favour of us people in the Central Party. We cannot support this because we do not want to take on this shame. We don't want to walk around with a badge in our forehead or chest. We will vote against it. The Estonian people want to continue and the Centre Party wants to continue with its people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U422	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U423	Thank you very much. Please, Karel Knight! Would you like eight minutes? Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U424	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Within the framework of the elections, I attended dozens of meetings that discussed what was happening in society. Most people found that living nearly 65,000 children in poverty or at risk of poverty is simply incomprehensible and shameful. During these numerous meetings, I have been assured that the success and growth of the Estonian economy must be achieved without sacrificing people. Let me remind you that the Socialist Group has already tabled drafts and made corrections to the state budget every year since 2011, with which we have wished to triple universal child subsidies. So far, unfortunately, the constructive debate has not produced any results. Instead of improving the livelihood of children living in poverty, coalition parties have started to attack and label social democrats. All of a sudden, we heard about the gross tax increase planned by the sots, and from year to year, the government itself has put its hands deep in the pockets of people and businesses, even though the words confirm something quite different. Just as in spring the trash is exposed from the melting snow, the essence of the thin country rhetoric of the coalition is becoming increasingly apparent. We see the government's constant desperate efforts to find money in the budget by means of various taxes, whether car tax, environmental charges, etc., which, without analysis, are simply trying to ram through with force. The time for change has come and, fortunately, the restructuring of the tax system, which does not necessarily mean an increase in the tax burden, is no longer a taboo issue in society. The coalition is alone with its dogmas and more and more entrepreneurs have realised that without a thorough analysis and reform of tax policy, Estonian business and the economy as a whole will not be able to sail far. We're just not competitive at one point anymore. I would like to point out once again that 65000 children live in poverty in Estonia, which is more than the total population of Pärnu, Viljandi and Rakvere. For many, the neighbor has lived in Finland for years, and a lot of families have a choice to choose whether to move with the whole family to pick up their mother or father. As far as child benefit is concerned, it costs almost as much as monthly child benefit, for example, to visit a logo beet with a child. However, the order of the specialist may remain unsimplified. Many families find it increasingly difficult to give children a good education and to cope with everyday life. At the same time, the Prime Minister repeatedly boasts that everything is fine in Estonia; we are an example for the whole of Europe. Looks like there's something really wrong with this picture! The cornerstone of government tax policy seems to be the conviction that most of the tax burden must be borne by those who are so difficult to cope with. The rise in VAT, the rise in hidden electricity excise duty and the increase in excise duty in general have hit the poorer people, whose wages are largely used to cover food and home expenses. A non-complex tax debate is essential and it must not be left out of its subjects either, because the old-fashioned, clearly unequally distributed tax burden cannot go on. Just as it is polite to give a mother a seat on a bus with a child, those with stronger should still be more responsible. The result is a more coherent and secure society. The second topic I want to mention is Estonia's pollution response capacity, which is still modest. Several tanker accidents have occurred in Estonian waters during this century. In 2000, 250 tonnes of crude oil leaked into the sea from a tanker standing in Muuga port. 100 tonnes of petroleum products leaked into the sea from a cargo ship that drowned in 2006. Especially hard to remember, however, has been the pollution that hit the northwest coast in the winter of 2006, which covered a whole 35 km stretch of coast, causing about 20,000 birds to die. A total of 10 tonnes of petroleum products were collected with voluntary aid. In recent years, two accidents have occurred with tankers at Aegna Island. Fortunately, both tankers were empty and the natural disaster was virtually unborn in the heart of Tallinn. According to Estonia's particular characteristics, the likelihood of emergencies in the Baltic Sea must be considered high, i.e. the likelihood of an accident occurring once in one to ten years. The consequences of the resulting marine pollution are likely to be serious or very serious. Against this background, however, our government is looking at the high probability of an oil disaster with a cool lukewarm lukewarm. Our country's preparedness to prevent or deal with major accidents is more than inadequate. The government justifies its failure to do so with a lack of money, although the transport development plan envisages the creation of a so-called oil fund as one of the possible steps, in which potential polluters could also be involved, as is the case in many other European countries. Despite repeated promises of additional money, most of the investments made in pollution control capabilities have been borne by the ordinary person, the taxpayer. The government's optimism should be cooled by the fact that the question is not whether oil pollution occurs, but when and where it occurs. Yes, with the expiry of the time for single-hull tankers in the Baltic Sea, the risk of pollution has certainly decreased. At the same time, the 50,000 ton vessels have started to be replaced by 150 000 tonnes of tankers, where accidents are likely to have far worse consequences. Preventing tank accidents must be given greater attention and additional funding to increase pollution response capacity. This was also acknowledged at the round table held at Toompea, where representatives of NGOs, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs participated in addition to politicians. In summary, it will also benefit operators in the transit sector, who will have confidence that their activities will not lead to a natural disaster at any time. Of course, the Ministry of the Environment has a very important role to play in this: it must convene the parties, identify opportunities and find a compromise that is satisfactory to all parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U425	Thank you very much. Please, Heimar Lenk! Would you like eight minutes? Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U426	Ladies and gentlemen, It's 2013. We are talking about the state budget by 2014. This budget is put together and decided by two Estonian ruling parties, i.e. the IRL, the Fatherland and Res Publica Association, and the Reform Party. I have been in this Chamber with the adoption of ten, perhaps even more, national budgets, and I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, and perhaps, in years' time, the readers of this verbatim report, that nothing has changed. Enn Eesmaa said very well in his speech today that one day we could boast here at the top with an economic growth of almost 10%, and now only 0.4% has grown. When you read fresh comments and newspaper articles, it turns out that this small growth has only come from trade and worse, not because of the increase in sales or turnover, but because of the increase in prices. On the basis of the state where we are now, I ask myself what I have to say to my people, to my voters from the highest speaking point in Estonia, which is in the Riigikogu on Toompea. I think I must sincerely apologise to the Estonian people for taking this kind of budget before them. And it will certainly be confirmed without any change, or it will be improved a little with minimal beauty treatments. If I asked what would the people have to say to me as his representative on this floor, I would have the same unsavory answer that the people have nothing to say. Because he claims that nothing has gotten better in our lives, esteemed vigilante. You've been accepting state budgets for ten years in a row, but none of them have improved the situation of me, of a simple person, of my family, of my children, of my father and mother, of my grandfather and of my grandmother. I'm going to take a single statistical indicator, and there's a lot of them read out here today and read out yet, but no one's touched it yet. Yesterday it was published by Eurostat, the most beloved statistical edition of our Prime Minister, which is never wrong, as Andrus Ansip assured us a few days ago in this very podium. Eurostat claims that 4.4% of the Estonian population have given up seeking employment. These are discouraged jobseekers, if formally expressed, and this means that these people no longer pass by the job exchange. They no longer go by their employers and live on a poor living allowance. Some cannot go to work because the family is in such a difficult situation and there is no one to leave children with. This 4.4%, imagine, is another indicator in the European Union. Italy is in worse shape than us, where there are around 5% of these people. All other countries, including Portugal, Spain and so on, are in a better position than we are. This is where the Estonians have fallen, the hardworking people who have told us that we have broken through our history with just a good job. We've worked hard, and we've ruined our health with it, but so we've been freed. And now we are in the situation that we are almost the worst people in Europe who are no longer looking for a job, because there is nowhere to take it anyway. We are currently making a new state budget and looking for a source of support for children. But let's take off today's business day and look at the front page, who's our hero of the day. This is Mr. Taskila, who shot down Estonian Air, but left Estonia with an awful lot of compensation, even though he has caused enormous damage to the Estonian people. Taskila served the interests of Finnish regional policy with the help of the Estonian aero company, because she secretly combined, so no one at first understood, trips to small settlements in Finland. None of the Finnish companies took them on. So Taskila spent the taxpayers' money in Estonia, but today she is our hero, again on the front pages of the newspapers. I ask our government departments, I ask Minister Parts: why hasn't the money been asked back, for example, that has been wasted in Estonian Air? Why has the money that has been wasted on the absurd projects of Eesti Energia not been recovered? No one's gonna ask for that money back, but we're desperately looking for sources of cover. Ladies and gentlemen, where is your source of cover? I say that the source of the cover is the wrong economic policy of the right-wing parties. This is how we discuss fiscal policy year after year and try to make a better budget for Estonia, but we have only gone downhill. Neeme the Great, one of the previous speakers, said very well today that this is how we will come to the crisis of democracy. We have enough people here who are familiar with history and know how the first Republic of Estonia came to an end when President Päts behaved in the same way as our Prime Minister Ansip: he took no account of anyone and was stubbornly pursuing his policy. At the beginning of April 1939, Päts gave a speech, where he said that Estonia was not affected by the world war, because the Estonian people have worked hard and fought free with work. You know well what happened a few months later. I don't want to make a bad announcement to our country here. I do not want to be a bad oracle that predicts evil, but unfortunately I feel that quite dark clouds have gathered above the Estonian people, and precisely because we have such rulers. By the way, today was an interesting comment on the Internet. We have so far called the Reform Party a squirrel party and the politicians of the Reform Party squirrels. Today I heard a new proposal, the commentator suggested: do not use the term'squirrels' anymore, let us rename them'squirrels'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U427	Please, Lauri Laasi! Eight minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U428	No, I can handle five. I'm not as chatty as Heimar.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U429	I'm not talking about kidnappers, I'm talking about kids. Ladies and gentlemen, I remembered a story I heard when I was in this hall. In the Valley kindergarten, Mesimum was said to have happened because lunch was about 30 minutes later, because there was a problem with the stove. Aurora, a kindergarten child, then expressed the view that today we are all going to starve. The child's mouth does not lie, but the child often tends to misunderstand or exaggerate. It was certainly far from starving at that time in kindergarten, and children's stomachs were probably not even empty, at least at lunchtime. But if there were one of these 63000 children living at risk of poverty in Estonia and the lunch still remained uneaten, these children could have gone to bed on an empty stomach at night. Many children today only receive warm food in kindergartens or schools, so it is vital that this one meal is proper. We all feel how food prices have increased in recent years. I am not going to mention the figures that prove this here, but I am just saying that food prices have risen by almost 20% compared to 2008. Since exactly the same year, the money allocated by the state for school lunch has also increased, but it amounts to 1 cent, which is exactly 1.3%. The best flavor is hunger, but it doesn't justify our children's ever-suffering table. 78 cents per meal is obviously too small a contribution from the state to our children. Going from 2008 to another four years ago, we arrive at the 2004 period, since which the universal child allowance for the first and the second child has not increased. This support has remained the same since then: exactly EUR 19.18. Last year, coalition parties launched a draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, which aimed, like, at significantly increasing child benefits and improving the situation of families with children. Although the objective was noble and correct, the number of children living in relative poverty will fall by 2% only with the changes that will be in force in 2015. At the time, the Centre Party Group made 15 proposals to amend the National Family Benefits Act, unfortunately none of which were traditionally taken into account. The most important amendment was that the support of the first and second children would also increase. In our view, this should have been increasing a long time ago, because under the conditions of price increases, it is clear that as poor support as this 19.18 euros is for a parent is shameful and does not even allow for the cost of raising children to be covered in part. With our amendment, we wanted to increase this amount to EUR 57.54 from 2014. Of course, all the people in this room know these figures themselves. They do, but 56 of the members of the Riigikogu do not want to do anything to change the situation. The Centre Party has repeatedly proposed to increase child support. We have also repeatedly paid attention to the excessive small size of the amount allocated to school lunches. Now I'm going to name the numbers that these 56 people might be interested in. According to the latest survey, the support of the opposition parties has increased to 49%, while the two power parties supported only 42% of the population in total. Perhaps it makes those in power want to improve things in the country or at least make sure that our smallest ones are full when they go to bed at night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U430	Five minutes, very good!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U431	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski! Would you like eight minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U432	Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of this debate, I drew the attention of the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs to the fact that, although we do indeed have a number of measures aimed at supporting children and families, the fact is that nearly 60000 children live either in poverty or at risk of poverty. Which is why I believe that government policy in this area has clearly failed. Socialist proposals to improve the livelihood of families have raised a perfectly legitimate question: where will the money come from? There are, theoretically, two distinct options here: either to review our tax regimes and their rates or to try to improve the collection of taxes at current rates. I would like to focus on the last one in this speech. It is no secret to anyone that the Estonian state loses hundreds of millions of euros of tax revenue each year. Tax fraud violates fair competition and, moreover, the state budget does not receive the money that should be received there. I would like to congratulate the current administration of the tax administration, which has moved the fight against tax fraud to a qualitatively new level. I would like to encourage them by confirming that there is a full consensus in the Riigikogu that tax fraud must be dealt with much more effectively. Tax fraud is, in substance, comparable to the corruption of officials. In both cases, working and highly successful people are stealing the money that the country has foreseen to support socially disadvantaged people. This, in my opinion, is a morally disgusting crime that must be combated. I would like to take a closer look at a specific initiative of the tax administration in the direction in which I consider that the Riigikogu has not been at the top of its duties, namely the pre-registration of employees who have been at issue today. At the moment, the tax officer can come to a restaurant or construction site where envelope wages are paid and establish the fact that people work there without an employment contract. He is explained that the person is working for the first day and has not yet been registered. That's a nice yo-yo scheme, by the way. Everyone knows that tax money is being stolen, workers' rights are not protected, but there is nothing that can be done under the law. What, then, can we do about it? We need to change the law. In order to overcome this problem, the tax administration has found a logical solution: the employer should be obliged to register the employee on the day before he starts working. This would ensure that every employee would also be in the register of the tax administration and that taxes would have been paid for him. Employers' representative organisations have accepted this amendment in principle, requiring only that the employer should be able to register the employee in several national registers with a single operation. Logically, it is the responsibility of the state to create a system that combines the data of all the national registers itself. There has certainly been talk about this for more than half a year, but in the next year's budget, where the coalition estimates that there are no sources of cover for increasing child support, these additional social tax and personal income tax receipts are not reflected as the system has not been implemented. It has been said for a long time that we can change laws quickly, but innovation requires a complex IT solution that cannot be developed so quickly. Well, you might ask if it really takes as long as it really takes to create such an additional register as it really is a priority. The right question, because it has now become clear that the tax office is actually ready for the change and that they will do the necessary IT solution in a few months if necessary. But what doesn't exist is a law that allows us to move on. The Ministry of Finance's role in this amendment of the law has recently been challenged by the Minister of Justice, saying that the plan is crude and needs to be supplemented. However, the Ministry of Social Affairs has not taken up any of its contributions to the bill. It's November. Within a few weeks, a draft proposal on car tax was put together on the questionable feasibility that has already been discussed, but it has not been possible to create a proper legislative framework for registering employees for several months. Due to the inaction of the government, we will now not collect a lot of tax revenue in one year, the market will be outlawed due to unfair competition, and the opportunities to contribute to Estonia's future will be narrower. The question must be asked whether the Minister for Finance, who has spoken of the fight against tax fraud, actually considers this a priority. If the government did its job correctly, the resulting revenue would also be reflected in the draft we are discussing today and then colleagues from the government coalition could re-examine the sources of cover. At the moment, however, the reference to their absence is empty talk from the coalition ambassadors, because the source of the cover is actually in front of you. The question is why you have failed to get your government ministers to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U433	I'll try to make it in five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U434	Five minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U435	Thank you. Please, George Ratas! Would you like eight minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U436	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! The 2014 state budget, which reached second reading in the Chamber of Riigikogu today, is another example of the accounting policy of the government coalition. A policy that shifts individual figures into the Excel table but does not see a long-term vision as a whole does not focus on the future of our country and people. The pension increase announced as a great achievement is, of course, due to the State Pension Insurance Act and not due to the priorities of the Government Coalition. Raising the income limit by 13.3 euros is a step forward, but obviously an inadequate solution for people living in financial difficulties, especially given the constant rise in prices, which is one of the fastest in the European Union in Estonia. When analysing the state budget, it is clear on a daily basis that the main issues remain unresolved once again. I am thinking, for example, of the continued under-funding of local authorities and the education sector, as well as the support of the first child, which has been at the same awkwardly low level for years, and the tax-free minimum. In the long line of omissions, we also find the lack of money from the circles of interest. We are in a situation where more and more people are leaving their home countries and rural areas are peripheral. Instead of seeking common solutions, the government parties are convinced of the uniqueness of their view of the weather and ignore the recommendations of opposition forces, local governments and the National Audit Office. I repeat this last: the recommendations of the National Audit Office are also ignored. More specifically, every criticism and every dissent is ridiculed. Is that the kind of democracy we wanted? Good people here! For the second year in a row, the delegation of the Municipalities' Associations did not sign the final protocol of the state budget negotiations. This decision was due to the stoned attitude of the government coalition and the unwillingness to take into account the proposals of the local governments. At the same time, the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments did not ask for anything outrageous. Above all, it sought to restore the pre-crisis revenue base, to provide adequate funding for local roads and to clarify the issue of teachers' salaries. Everyone in this hall knows that more than 4.5 years ago, the trio union, which included the Reform Party, the IRL and the Social Democrats, decided to strongly reduce the local government's revenue base. Both the share of personal income tax received by the municipality, the amounts of the fine-tuning fund and the financing of roads were reduced. The Estonian Centre Party then voted against all these proposals, but anti-government decisions came into force despite our opposition. With the cuts made by the government coalition and the support fund, local authorities have lost EUR 230 million and, if cuts persist, local life organisers will lose another EUR 50 million each year. Temporary cuts have become a daily day, our country's economy has been on the rise for three years in a row, and moderate growth will be allowed for this year and next year. However, the current government coalition does not consider it important to improve the situation of local governments. The state of things has been described very vividly by the Managing Director of the Estonian Union of Cities. I quote: 'During the crisis, our heads were pushed under the water. The crisis is over a long time ago, but our heads are still being held underwater. " Tough words, but that is exactly the situation of local governments. Is this the business of Estonia promised by the Fatherland and Res Publica Union? Do local government leaders and their residents need to be satisfied that the government coalition is holding their heads underwater, figuratively? Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Estonia's life is organised not only in Toompea, but in 215 municipalities all over Estonia. The cities and municipalities of Estonia must finally be helped out of the economic crisis. This requires a return base before the crisis and a gradual increase in funding for local roads. We must ensure decent living conditions throughout Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U437	I'm asking for three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U438	Thank you. I will also bring out another important area where underfunding must stop. I mean Estonian families. There is certainly a need to increase the allowance for the first child, which has lasted €19.18 for ten years. The need-based family allowance is not the solution here. To put it plainly, this is more of a mockery of those in need of help. Parents are forced to provide evidence on a quarterly basis that their family deserves either 9 euros and 59 cents, depending on the number of children, or 19 euros and 18 cents. Instead of this empty reform, general child support for all families must be doubled or tripled. Unfortunately, there are other concerns. I believe that there are few parents in Estonia who are satisfied with the decision to give up the money for recreational circles. The opinion of Finance Minister Jürgen Ligi that this would be a wildly expensive change is not, in my opinion, quite appropriate. For the state, 25 million euros is about 0.3% of the state budget. Most parents spend many times, if not dozens of times, on paying for their children's interest in the family budget. It is not a question of a lack of public money, but of priorities. The state must also act fairly on the financing of school food. The constant increase in the cost of food and electricity has long led to a situation where, for 78 euro cents, it is not possible to offer children a varied lunch in schools. The average school lunch is actually worth 1.1 euros to 1.3 euros, and for many years local authorities have been paying the missing amount to schools. That is why we want to increase public support for school lunch to EUR 1 and introduce free school food for class X-XII students. Families and education are closely linked. The latter has also underfunded the provision of support services. According to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, support services must be financed by the schoolkeeper or, in most cases, by the local government. Up until now, educational support was used to pay the salaries of logo beets, psychologists, social pedagogues and special pedagogues, but this is no longer allowed, while no additional funding was provided by the state to local authorities. The establishment of regional reference centres proposed by the Ministry of Education and Research is certainly not a satisfactory solution, as the support services necessary for the development of the child must be provided daily at the student's home school. Honourable ambassadors! Estonia is facing a serious population crisis. Natural crops have been negative for decades, and over 10,000 people left their homeland last year. To improve the situation, we must support municipalities, educational institutions, children and families throughout Estonia. If the only answer to the government coalition is that there is no money, then ways must be found to increase revenue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U439	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U440	Would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U441	Thank you very much. Please, Aivar Riisalu! What is your desire for time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U442	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U443	Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the state budget is hotter and hotter every year. This year, the Centre Party will not bear the main weight, as the Centre Party believes that dialogue would be much more sensible. The perceptions of the Centre Party have changed so much over the years that we would already very much like to be able to change things. Because we don't understand one thing. I think most individuals in life have dreamed of winning a million. At least when an individual wakes up in the morning, he thinks he's a million short, and that's 15 years in a row. Every Estonian entrepreneur is 5 million short when he wakes up in the morning, and so for 15 years in a row. Our country has nothing missing because its rulers collect taxes and splendidly in Europe, it seems so beautiful that Andrus Ansip is Angela Merkel's best friend. In Europe, it is as if there are two countries that should follow suit: Estonia and Germany. On the basis of some historical cooperation, we could say that we are part of the German cultural space and maybe it is good from somewhere in the country. But the Estonian ordinary citizen, the lovely person of Estonia, does not understand what it is good for, because he is a million short when he wakes up in the morning, and so for 15 years in a row. Running against the wall with your head is a really nice thing to do, especially when you're a kid. However, if you have been in opposition in the Riigikogu for six years, you would no longer want to run against the wall with your head. The deeper point of all this parable is that the coalition is upset, but they survive these night sessions. The opposition is running into the wall again. For the simple reason that these cynics aren't going to change anything, they're fine. We still look like a relatively successful country in Europe, and some kind of child support, some EUR 19 on the moon, what is wrong with you?! God's normal! I'm telling you, it's grown all the time, what are you doing? How do you not understand, I am telling you for the fifth time that children's benefits have grown all the time?! However, I do not understand if EUR 19 in conversions to kroons was EUR 19 ten years ago and is still EUR 19, so what has been the increase? I don't think it's child support. I think it's time that my growing fear of the left turn becomes a reality. You wouldn't need that left turn, because the problem with the left turn is that we still have as much money as we have. The $5 million I dream about in the morning is nowhere to be taken. The company has the opportunity to sell its business and thus get more money; the State does not have this possibility. The state cannot sell itself if it can, but in a sense. I think the only way out is for us to sit down and start thinking that we have this kind of people, we have this kind of economy. The left says we have unemployment, I say as a representative of the centre party's right wing that we have a shortage of labour. We know that in a context of declining population and emigration, we will not be able to quickly change the structure of the economy. Suddenly, a little less paying workforce should be brought to Estonia, for example, to ask Syria that you have a million refugees there, give us 500,000 for two years, so that we can get our noses back on the water. You see, the organisation of state life must take into account the various components: the economy, the ability of the population to produce added value, the tax system and, there, the governance and all that. I think that on the right, this system is going down in any case, and for the simple reason that they have begun to do such stupid things that they could never have expected. As far as the left is concerned, one might say that small amounts tend to be distributed quickly. Which one of us doesn't like to be good. I'd like to be good, too, but I can't be good if I don't have the chance. I think the truth is somewhere in the middle. I always hope that my dream will come true, which is why I once entered the Centre Party. I'd like to do this broad-based middle-class thing in a small society, who can handle himself well, does a relatively smart job, and is assisted by normal authorities and a normal state. I'd really like it to get settled sometime. I think that a discussion of the tax system as a whole is essential. This is also acknowledged by coalition ambassadors in corridor conversations. They're actually, frankly and frankly, all reasonable people when they're alone, but in a strange way, when they start acting like a group, they go completely stupid. Strangely enough, however, there have been a few passions in their gang, the last commendation was the withdrawal of the car's VAT bill, although temporarily, I understand. The draft will probably be re-submitted. As a little atypical speaker, I do not think of one or the other specific disadvantage for the simple reason that in my soul, even the present government is not the enemy of its own people, but it simply does not understand and ask for advice when some part of the tax passes by the Treasury. To my question, whether he knows the problem of the shadow economy, Sester today answered from the remote that it is statistically 9%. I am of the opinion that this is a much bigger problem. The list could continue. Once again, fuel has gone for VAT fraud. I already know how it's done, but no one's even wanted to ask me how it's done. Last time I did this thing for a year and a half, then Taavi came in the garment and took my victory. He said, what I told you, a billion kroons a year goes away! It's gone. Taavi in the garment said he found it, actually he didn't. The rulers simply did not want to change the law, and this billion was collected quite quickly. Let us be honest, however: the current politicians do not have much experience. There's a lot of young boys out there who've made up their minds in political parties. Municipal politicians, as top executives, may last a long time when they have young boys to support them, but peasant wisdom tends to decline in politics, and I am saddened about that. In any case, I would like to wish the government coalition a brief age and I hope that they will understand at one moment that their only salvation is in the Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U444	Let's stay eight minutes first.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U445	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U446	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Riigikogu who are in the Chamber or are following us closely on a computer or television! We have come to discuss quite a number of topics here, be it in the round of questions and answers or now in the round of speeches. I want to come back and come back to the subject of education. My colleague, Jaak Allik, has already drawn very well the wage scheme for rather dim teachers. Of the 4.7% in the bill, there should somehow be a 12% raise. Very much concern has been raised by the remuneration of support services in the faculty, parents and certainly local authorities, i.e. the work of the logopaedic, school psychologist, social pedagogy and special pedagogy. What's this about? This remote control has already been repeatedly tried to prove once again this week that support services have always been the sole responsibility of the local government for the last ten years and that nothing has changed in the past year. On the contrary, in June, happiness entered our yard, and now regional support centres are being established. Allow me to say a few words for clarification. First of all, the provision of support services, as well as the provision of our entire school network, has always been the responsibility of the schoolkeeper. Depending on whether it is a state, private or municipal school, the schoolkeeper has had to ensure that both education and education function and, of course, the support services needed in the school, as there are more and more young people who can only obtain education if there is additional support. One very important factor in this responsibility is funding. How has this happened so far? The work of state schools is, of course, paid to 100% of the state budget, there have been different systems for private schools, but broadly speaking, the payroll fund comes from the state budget and the so-called box costs are covered from the pockets of private investors, parents and donors. Now to the municipal system. In the case of municipal schools, the fee for support services has indeed been part of the payroll fund. As long as Minister Aaviksoon was in force, the use of the state education grant was quite detailed in advance, but there was also a considerable amount for which the municipality could decide for itself how to use it in the interests of education. In most municipalities, of course, teachers were paid at least in terms of their minimum wage, but for many, much more wages were paid, as well as support specialists received a salary from the same education allowance. In 2010, a large number of special needs requirements and clarifications were included in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. There is a separate section of the law detailing what kind of support a child needs to receive at school. The service of a social pedagogue has also been introduced as a requirement. In 2010, it was not only a question of an additional social pedagogy, but of implementing the whole new, quite detailed system. During the negotiations between local authorities and the Government of the Republic, it was agreed that the increase in the payroll fund would be greater than the increase in the minimum wage rates provided for by the Government of the Republic regulation, and the remaining money could be used to pay for the necessary support services. Of course, this opportunity is now wanted to be narrowed down by claiming that it was only about a social pedagogy. Luckily, it's been pretty well debated in court. The issue was quite detailed in the provision of support services. Now the new minister came and declared that the law could not be interpreted in this way. This paper is, like he said on Monday, some senseless thing men have been discussing somewhere. The Minister stressed that the payroll was intended solely for the remuneration of teachers. In order to make it clear to everyone, he also changed the basic school and upper secondary school law, taking out the word 'pedagog', which included a social pedagogy and a special pedagogy. So the state finances three components of education from the 2014 budget: teachers' salaries, school meals and textbooks. And there's a point. All other educational expenditure must be covered by the local government. I would like to remind you of our rather interesting and awakening conversation with Mr Aaviksoo on Monday, who said that you have understood correctly. It was perhaps the only thing we had understood correctly. The increase in teachers' salaries does not have to come entirely from the state budget; it only comes in a third of the state budget. So if you count the 2014 budget and find a pay increase of 4.7%, that is true. Only one third of the planned increase will be covered by the additional budget, the second third will come from efficiency, i.e. closure of schools, reorganisation of the school network, and the third third will come from the local government as an additional contribution. You can review the verbatim, that's exactly how the minister explained the salary increase to us. But the local government's contribution is what? I can say that investment components are lost from the budget, money is lost, for example, for class managers' fees, bonuses, nationwide events and so on. Of course, the local government now retains the entire support system. The Minister has perhaps not been to a lot of general education schools, and he does not know that there are ever more children in schools who can only study when they are being provided with an excrement. If they don't, their education will be incomplete. Early notice is increasingly needed at school. And the final argument: very often, in large classes, other children can only study if a few of the most difficult students are also dealt with by a specialist. We hope that the 2014 budget discussions will also provide some support for the provision of support services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U447	Thank you very much. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U448	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It's been exactly eight hours. There have been many calls, interesting experiences, I would say. First of all, however, I would like to make three important points, which I have heard constantly in this Chamber, but I will go over them again. If there was Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, then, let's be honest, he didn't answer about four questions in a row. In conclusion, it was asked to find out where the funds of EUR 24 million could be found. He said dividends. One questioner, if I'm not mistaken, was Kadri Samson. Kadri Simson said that the honourable Minister of Finance visited the Committee on Monetary Affairs and claimed that this was not possible. In addition, the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs said that two months had come up with an analysis, the results of which will be clear by Monday, and we will see on Monday. From this point on, the question immediately arose: if, in fact, by Monday, it becomes clear whether we will find this 24 million or not, and maybe this amount is 60 million, we did not actually get to know the company from which the dividends could be taken, then what we are here for today. On the question of why we are going to vote on these proposals today, the answer was that it is just an indication. I mean, that doesn't make any sense, to put it mildly. But when it comes to such an identity, just a nice debate, it would be right for the government to withdraw the draft budget today and think it over again, but we would be voting on the proposals after we know what has become apparent by Monday. And that is what we all know, both those MPs who are now in this Chamber and the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It's not like we're discussing and discussing, but we're actually running some kind of corner analysis, the results of which will not be known until Monday. Secondly, I would like to talk about a culture that can be summed up by the word 'roadroller', too, has been repeatedly emphasised here. It is still the right cynical attitude when the question of why no opposition drafts can be supported is answered that then suddenly they start to think that they can come in at any time with their proposal and think that we will consider it in the future. Let's just say that it's almost impossible for people who use peasantry to explain what has to be drawn between a strong line here. Wouldn't it be wiser to bring the parties together and really discuss, discuss? Perhaps some of these 400 proposals deserve to be supported. Why simply reply that we will in principle certainly not support the opposition's proposals, because that would be the wrong signal for the future and it will be more difficult to keep this line in the coming years. It must also be said that, as a document, the state budget is increasingly shorter, increasingly incomprehensible and empty. It is, in fact, very difficult to promote reasonable cooperation on this ground in this Chamber, and that is something that is deeply regrettable. Listening to older and more experienced colleagues, we realise that cooperation has become worse every year. At times, it really feels like we're in kindergarten. Thirdly, I want to touch on the night hearing and its point. I want to talk about child benefit EUR 19 per month. This, too, has been dealt with several times on this board. We know that the real value of this EUR 19 is now EUR 12. Today I was honoured to attend the tenth birthday of this 19-euro child allowance. There, too, several representatives of organisations related to children spoke, who consider the situation to be abnormal and unreasonable. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U449	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U450	Thank you. In fact, I can't tell you how it's been possible that child support hasn't been changed for ten years. There is talk over and over and over and over again, and people are punching themselves in the chest that we have need-based family support, but it has also been mentioned repeatedly that it has received just over 3,000 instead of the assumed 30000 children. It all makes you wonder if it really is true that part of the people who are really wise and understanding people are simply subject to the absurd party discipline. Mystique! I read today a press release from the IRL and Reform Party, which stated to our conscience that last year's night hearing cost the taxpayer EUR 15,000. Like it's the most compelling argument why it shouldn't be done! That if we have any weight on making the EUR 19 child allowance triple, then help, this weighing will cost EUR 15,000! Just to explain the figures so much that the Riigikogu Chancellery has a budget of more than 20 million euros a year, we are talking about 15,000 euros. I have been able to agree with some of the Social Democrats and some of the Democrats that if we can triple the EUR 19 allowance for children in this Chamber a month, we will promise that we will reimburse EUR 15 000. I have this deal, I can say it out loud. So strength and strength, but I would ask you not to point the finger at this argument at least in the future! The simple advice is that we make a triple of EUR 19 support, and there is no point in doing any more empty words in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U451	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U452	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I guess I'm the last speaker in this sitting, and there really is nothing to add to everything that has sounded here. However, I would like to go through the most important points once again. We all know why we're here at this hour. This is the opposition's protest against the road roll tactics, which we have still been confronted with for me personally, this is the second time, for my colleagues who have been in the opposition for a longer time, already five or six times. That's right. What are the biggest drawbacks of this year's budget? The first is undoubtedly that the government coalition postpones an increase in the tax-free minimum for the sixth time. This was last done in 2008. The second minus is that the income base of local governments remains at the pre-crisis level and the cuts that have never been made, no one will probably make up for it. Thirdly, I would like to mention the embarrassing story of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, which proposed a reduction in unemployment insurance contributions from 3% to 2.1%, but this will not be done. The fourth is the same notorious child benefit, which is still absurdly small - 19 euros and 18 cents a month - for the tenth year. 19 euros and 18 cents, it's six kilos of apples or three pairs of panties, something like that. In fact, we remember that I hope that we will all remember that, according to the law, child support is intended to compensate parents for the costs of raising their children. So we have a very strange idea of what raising a child is and how much it really costs. At the same time, we know very well that in the government union programme, or coalition agreement, all kinds of good things are allowed for children, even in three chapters. During the summer, we were promised that every child would be able to have one free circle of interest with next year's budget. It didn't happen. In the Coalition Agreement, this promise clearly exists in the chapter 'A friendly state', in the chapter 'Cultural policy' and in the chapter 'Sport and body culture'. There was talk of school food here today. The Centre Party is proposing to increase the cost of school food to EUR 1; it is currently 0.78 cents. If there was a colleague Sven Sester here today, I also asked him for an estimate that in 2005 the cost of school food was 75 eurocents and in 2013 there were 78 eurocents, which means that in nine years we have given three cents more to prepare each school lunch. In a small village school, this means that children eat macaroni with tea every day, because there is simply no more to allow them. I received an answer from my honourable colleague that a discussion should be launched, whether it should not be made needs-based for school food. Thus, we would hang labels on children, dividing them into those who are given warm food at home and those who are not given them. About the same way, children are distributed by means of parental and need-based family benefits. We are always told that the Estonian budget is balanced and we are very proud of it. However, I believe that the coalition ambassadors also know very well that the budget of a regular Estonian family has long been unbalanced. Our people's lives are not balanced and that is why they leave Estonia. Perhaps this is too personal a comment, but I must admit that when I came to this Riigikogu to work, I sincerely believed that the Riigikogu was the place where things were discussed in essence. No discussion. Last year there was no state budget debate here and there is not this year either. There is a relatively helpless demonstration of the opposition with which we are trying to say: listen, let us discuss this. But the coalition is not in the hall. I do not know whether or not we will be discussing something substantive here next year, but I very much hope that the situation will change. My colleague Neeme the Great quite rightly pointed out the fact and, of course, did not receive the answer that the very strange opposition proposed 400 improvements and the coalition did not receive any. That's how it works. We're not discussing things here, we're playing rubber stamp, and I'm really embarrassed that we all have to be part of it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U453	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U454	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Since Remo Holsmer, the vice-president of the Riigikogu Group of the Reform Party, has expressed the opinion in many ways that what we are dealing with here is political technology that the people of Estonia do not understand and call it a brake on state life, I want to start by getting it right. The opposition is pursuing nothing but very concrete steps to promote life in Estonia. And one of these steps has been very much a speech today, and probably in many days to come, and perhaps also in the years to come, on the subject of triple child support. Remo Holsmer claims that the coalition has done a great deal to increase child benefits and that it is wrong to say that they have not increased in 10 years. Among other things, he says that the support of the first and second children increased by EUR 29 in the middle of the year, i.e. by EUR 9.58. It's just a tenth of the truth not to say it's not true. Because what the opposition is talking about is universal child support, which is received by some 250,000 children. However, Remo Holsmer's claim that children's benefits have increased this year is, unfortunately, limited to more than 3000 children, i.e. family allowance, which is needs-based and for which it is necessary to apply for this EUR 9.58 per month every three months. I would also like to remind you that this family allowance was, according to the Coalition, intended for some 30000 children, but at present only a tenth of this figure is available. It is hard to believe that it significantly improves the livelihood of Estonian families or helps them out of poverty. Certainly, the coalition must be commended for supporting one type of universal child support, i.e. third child support, which, regardless of parents' income, has increased to EUR 77 per month. Interestingly, though, if the third child is considered to be the right principle, the first child and the second child are called a plane for the sowing of money. I'll come back to the rhetoric of sowing this money later with another example. At the same time, the truth has come to fruition, and probably the knowledge of a simple peasant's logic that if the first and second children are not born, it is not possible that a third child will be born. Thus, the Estonian families must first reach the first and second children and have the assurance that the state will support them. That is why there is a need to increase child benefits. Remo Holsmer has also spoken through the press about one more thing, and he is not the only one who has come up with this statement. This has also been said by Mr Sven Sester, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who has received many thanks here today for answering mainly opposition questions for more than four hours, even though many questions still remain unanswered. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U455	Thank you! The argument is that the Social Democrats have proposed in their proposals to the Committee on Monetary Affairs a source of cover that cannot be implemented in 2014. This is then higher income tax on income exceeding EUR 14000 per year. Remo Holsmer obviously has not gone into our amendment because it does not limit it to not applying it as a monthly withholding tax, just as personal income tax is being withheld on a monthly basis today. Now a little bit of history. The respected editor of the Riigikogu wallpaper Juku-Kalle Raid, who is not in the hall at the moment, has also come to history and Remo Holsmer asked that 2007-2009. Until then, the Social Democrats were in government and why they did not increase child support at that time. First of all, to Juku-Kalle Raid, if Eiki Nestor were to start talking about what the Juku-Kalle Raid groupmates wanted to cut in those years, then we could sit here for a few more days. And those numbers would be pretty cruel. Among other things, in 2009 we can mention a reduction in real pensions, which had to rise by 12% at the time, etc. But I want to point out that 2007 and 2014 will be seven years apart. The situation we were in in 2007 was quite different. Remember the arguments of the day! I myself was at the coalition meetings, where we argued with the representation of the Reform Party led by the Prime Minister, and we finally achieved the result that kindergarten teachers began to receive decent pay in very many places where they had not received it before. It's thanks to the kindergarten program we started. The only ones who defended the fact that universal child support would not disappear were the Social Democrats during the crocodile slaughter. And we managed to protect it. Otherwise, the death axe of the right parties would have taken the EUR 19.18 that they are currently receiving from their children. Finally, I would also like to comment on the opinion of Remo Holsmer, which he expressed in a series of other half-sisters and his own interpretations, that everything we do here is because the Social Democrats failed in local elections. Good colleague! This is now the ultimate example of Goebbels' teaching. The one who failed the local elections was the Reform Party, and he lost 25,000 votes compared to the previous elections. The Social Democrats won 30,000 more votes, which is twice what the IRL won. I do not know how the honourable Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs will deal with the merger and the separation when he reaches such claims. Does he have any problems with mathematics or...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U456	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U457	Your speaking time is over! Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U458	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I understand you're convinced I'm asking for more time. There's nothing I can do to disappoint your hopes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U459	Let me start by saying that our debate today has probably attracted more interest than our usual disputes. One of my good colleagues and a groupmate was called by a grandfather who has nine grandchildren. A very specific man. In particular, he saw on television the reasons given by the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs for not increasing child support. And this grandfather called his son and asked him directly how much the cost of one child per month was. Son, probably a particular person, didn't think long and said that 300 euros would go into their family. These EUR 300 are all spent on consumption because there is no other way. As a wise man, Grandpa made a calculation and found that the income the country receives thanks to the fact that this family spends 300 euros a month on the child is 60 euros. I mean 20% VAT. There is nothing to do, Grandpa concluded that the country would give the child EUR 19 and take EUR 60 from the family. The subject of children's benefits myself, I apologise for the fact that I tend to explain social policy to you here, as a gray head, is linked to very substantive reasons. Each support has its own logic. For example, all the various sums that people receive to make life easier and which are linked to their previous contribution are generally indexed worldwide. We have a typical example of pensions that are indexed. And this can be done because the contributions and disbursements are linked. In the case of grants, there is no such direct link, they are difficult for countries to index and they do not do so as a rule. They're doing something else. It is done that grants will be increased calmly and continuously, not too much, but that their idea of why they were ever created will be preserved. If you don't believe, you can read for yourself in Section 2 of the State Family Benefits Act, which is the point of these benefits. The goal is not to cover all the costs of raising a child by the family, but to help the child grow up and partly to cover the costs that the family needs to do. This is a state-owned contribution to the family regardless of the income of the parents, and this money is primarily intended for the child. If these benefits are not increased over time, they will lose meaning. Why am I saying this? I am therefore talking about the good MPs from the Group of the IRL and Reform Party that, over the last week, I have had three conversations on this subject with your brave spokespersons. I have tried to justify what will immediately take the form of votes in this Chamber. I have tried to explain this, and I have been told three times that universal child benefits are not going straight away. Nothing at all! You can't even take one step halfway around here. In fact, earlier debates on this subject at any time, perhaps already in 2007, 2008 or 2009, have led me to believe that the old proud and bravious slogan of reformists in particular, the idea of which is that my salary is so high that I do not need child support, is fading. This has now been understood one by one, because one by one has been attending to the ministry and everyone has realised that, if you draw a limit on income for child support, it will ultimately cost more than the money left there. Eventually, there's nothing left to share. On the other hand, the idea of public family benefits is being destroyed. They're getting smaller all the time, and we're letting them shrink. And this is where we will never agree with you. As for the whole idea, which applies to school lunch, children's allowances and I do not know what else and which is summed up by the word 'need-based', when we move forward in this way, we will reach the need-based Republic of Estonia. I admit that I have expressed this point here on the floor of the Riigikogu before, but there is nothing to be done, I must repeat it. However, there is no way to agree with all this. The state budget process changed considerably last day. It changed because it was clear to the majority of the Committee on Monetary Affairs before it was a clear minority, so not to say almost everyone it became clear that, because of certain changes in the VAT law and the Income Tax Act, which have not only been done in haste, but also where there is another major problem that this income does not come in, the government has brought a budget of EUR 24 million minus to us. Today, the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs expressed his conviction that by Monday all these matters would have been clarified. Knowing the Minister for Finance, however, I do not think he will be able to convince his coalition mates of the need to increase revenue by 24 million, even if he wanted to. At all, I find it illogical that the Riigikogu, without the government, is going to cut the budget by 24 million. That's why I have a simple request. There will be no penalty if the budget is adopted a few weeks or months later. Take him back, make a circle, bring him back to the hall and convince us that there is no empty air in it, and the debate is much more urgent! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U460	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U461	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U462	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have received quite a few educational hours here, listening to my colleagues' views on the state budget. Following these speeches, I have come to the clear conviction that the state budget we are discussing today does not have any specific features. This is the budget of one disgusting government, where there is almost no element of novelty. And if it's so casual and normal, do you really have to discuss it for so long? At the same time, perhaps it is extraordinary that the budget presented this year still contains all the errors that we criticised last year, last year and also a year earlier. Perhaps this is another year where the burden is placed first and foremost on those people who are already very heavy. Hidden by recent tax increases and the tax increases that have already occurred years ago, the burden has been placed primarily on people whose income is lower than the average wage in Estonia and on those who are not yet working or no longer working. The budget for next year will continue to give gifts to the wealthiest. If, so far, the gift to the wealthiest has been that our birth rate is decreasing, but the amounts allocated to parental pay are increasing, and that our tax policy considers it right not to collect certain taxes. There is now another gift for the wealthiest: it is likely that stakeholders will also be heard about car taxation. At the same time, however, stakeholders were not heard when funeral and retiring support was abolished. The third negative side of the budget, which is going to send us all next year, largely started four years ago. The cuts during the crisis, which were approved in this Chamber in February 2009 by a single vote, have become a sign of perpetuity. I guess there were a lot of cuts. In particular, they concerned municipalities, i.e. towns and municipalities. The cities and municipalities of Estonia prepared an appeal to the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu Committee on Monetary Affairs. They recalled that, in February 2009, when the income tax part of local government budgets was cut from 11,93% to 11,4%, the municipality's income base decreased. It has been calculated that in 2009-2012 the local living money has been reduced by EUR 185.9 million. This year, some EUR 50 million will be added to the amount taken from the municipalities, and next year, if these cuts are fixed, they will increase by another EUR 52 million. All this is money lost to municipalities and cities, and as a result changes were introduced that municipalities must contribute less to kindergartens and give up youth work at all, as well as support for sports activities. We know that this has not been possible for municipalities. Unfortunately, this "temporary" cut during the crisis will also find its way to next year's budget. In recent years, additional tasks have been assigned to the municipality. And when tasks have been assigned, money should also be allocated to carry them out. We had a serious dispute with the Minister of Education Jaak Aaviksoo a few days ago, namely on Monday, who said that he did not see the reason why the state should fund support staff in schools. Mailis Reps made a long speech on it. Jaak Aaviksoo also said that if the wage fund for logos, school psychologists and social pedagogues were to be given to the State, the income base of the municipality should be further reduced. However, it has been clearly stated in the address of the Cities Association and the Association of Rural Municipalities to the Riigikogu and our Committee on Finance that, if local governments are now deprived of the right to pay salaries to teachers from the salary fund, also for those very necessary staff at the school, the draft state budget will have a gap of 3.38 million euros to cover the costs of support services in the field of education. One amendment from the Centre Party would give that money back. And when we talk about an amount like EUR 3.38 million, we have to bear in mind that the total budget is 8 billion. One important issue for municipalities is the maintenance of roads. We know that 40% of the roads in Estonia belong to the municipalities, but the money they give for their upkeep is only 10% of the excise duty, which is obvious underfunding. Next year, the amount going to local roads will decrease further. These are just a few examples of how the cuts during the crisis are perpetuated, and our disgusting government does not even bother to justify it anymore. If we argue here in the Riigikogu Chamber about changes that we can make in the budget, it is a marginal amount. The amendments proposed by the Centre Party would require a total of EUR 29 million. If it were to be advised to find sources of cover, if it were to be recommended to find money for the wage of support staff and local roads, if it would be suggested that after five years, the prices of food at school should be increased by a third over these five years, then it would be possible to find the necessary source of cover. Just as a source of cover was found overnight for EUR 24 million, which is missing because there is no change in car taxation. It is suitable for taking dividends, it is suitable for selling assets. There is one more important thing that I would like to mention. The Government of the Republic has presented us with a budget based on loans, the introduction of reserves and highly optimistic tax collection forecasts. The opposition of the Riigikogu, however, has tabled only amendments that really, truly have a source of cover. Now, in turn, the IRL and the Reform Party have a very interesting experience of how the Minister of Finance questions the source of cover they offer. I wish the members of the Riigikogu strength in this whole debate, because at some point it must be said that the Riigikogu also has the right to change the budget. The Riigikogu does not only act as a rubber stamp in the swift processing of draft laws that have occurred to ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U463	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. We will examine the amendments. There's 402. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U464	Thank you. I would certainly ask for the first amendment to be voted, and before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U465	Ten minutes break. We'll proceed at 10:51 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U466	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 1, which has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, with no votes against or abstentions. The proposal was therefore supported. Amendment 2: Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U467	Ten minutes break. We'll proceed at 11:02.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U468	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U469	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. By 31 and against 52 members of the Riigikogu. The amendment was not supported. Let us move to the third amendment tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U470	Thank you. I would also like to make this wish in writing. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U471	I would ask for this amendment to be voted on, and before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U472	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. We are on the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. I shall put the third amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. By 30 and against 51 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. Let us move to the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U473	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U474	Thank you! Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U475	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put the fourth amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 26 members of the Riigikogu were in favour and 49 opposed, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Let us move to the fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U476	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U477	Thank you. I would also like to make this wish in writing. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U478	The break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. We are at the fifth amendment. I shall put to the vote the fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 21 votes to 44 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let us move to the sixth amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U479	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U480	Thank you. I would also like to make this wish in writing. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U481	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended, and the discussions and debate on the sixth amendment have ended. I shall put the sixth amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 19), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 39 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The Seventh Amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Following the discussion, the lead committee concluded that the proposal should be disregarded. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U482	Thank you. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U483	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U484	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put the seventh amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. The European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 23 votes to 40, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U485	Thank you. That's a good suggestion! Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U486	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U487	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. We have come to the eighth amendment as we move rapidly. I shall put the eighth amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. By 25 and against 37 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U488	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U489	Thank you. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U490	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I believe that you have concluded the debate on the ninth amendment. I shall put the ninth amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 24 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, but 40 against. This means that the amendment was not supported. Let us move to the tenth amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that the proposal should be disregarded. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U491	I would like to vote on this amendment, but before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U492	Got it. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U493	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put the tenth motion to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 25 votes against and 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour. The proposal was not supported. Let's move on. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U494	Thank you. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U495	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U496	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put the 11th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 30) and 39 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 12 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U497	Thank you. I ask for the vote on Amendment 12.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U498	Thank you. Let's start preparing the voting procedure. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U499	Before voting on such a weighty amendment, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U500	Thank you! Have a good discussion. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U501	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 12th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 29 votes to 39 members of the Riigikogu with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Let us move to Amendment 13 tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U502	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U503	Thank you. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U504	I'm gonna ask for ten minutes of recess before this!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U505	Thank you. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U506	Colleagues, the intermission is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 13 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Please vote! (meeting of 30), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 38 members of the Riigikogu with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 14 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U507	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U508	Okay. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U509	Colleagues, the intermission is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 14 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the commission of reference. Please vote! (meeting of 18), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 35 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 15 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U510	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U511	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U512	Colleagues, the intermission is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 15 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please vote! (meeting of 15), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 32 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 16 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U513	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U514	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U515	Colleagues, the intermission is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 16, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please vote! The proposal was voted in favour of 11 and adopted by 24 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 17 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U516	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U517	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U518	Colleagues, recess is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 17 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please vote! (meeting of 11), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 23 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 18 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and this proposal has been rejected. Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U519	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U520	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U521	Colleagues, recess is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 18 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please vote! (meeting of 14), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 21 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 19 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been disregarded. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U522	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U523	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U524	Colleagues, the intermission is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 19, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please vote! (meeting of 9) and 21 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Proposal No 20, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been disregarded. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U525	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U526	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U527	Colleagues, the intermission is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 20 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please vote! (meeting of 8) and 20 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 21 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been disregarded. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U528	Thank you. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U529	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on and, before the vote, I think about ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U530	About? Could it be nine minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U531	Still ten exactly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U532	Colleagues, the intermission is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 21 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been disregarded. Please vote! (meeting of 9) and 20 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 22 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party and has been disregarded. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U533	How much? Ten minutes. So ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U534	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U535	Colleagues, recess is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 22 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please vote! (meeting of 10), 17 members of the Riigikogu adopted the following opinion by 10 votes to 17, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 23 is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and has been disregarded. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U536	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U537	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U538	Colleagues, the intermission is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 23 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been disregarded. Please vote! (meeting of 10), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 10 votes to 16 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 24 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and this proposal has been rejected. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U539	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U540	Thank you, manager. I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 24, before the ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U541	Ladies and gentlemen, the intermission is over again. I shall put to the vote the 24th amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The lead committee has a proposal to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 8) and 16 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 25. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U542	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U543	Thank you, Mr President, and the strength to work. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U544	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 25 by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Steering Committee has proposed to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. There were 7 votes against and 18 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 26. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U545	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U546	Ten minutes break. We'll proceed at 03.27.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U547	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 26. This has been done by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the lead committee has proposed that this amendment be retained. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 8) and 15 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 27. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U548	Thank you, manager. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U549	Ten minutes break. We'll proceed at 03.38.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U550	Ladies and gentlemen, another break is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 27 made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Steering Committee has proposed to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 9) and 18 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 28. Eiki Nestor, I'm interested to hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U551	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U552	That's a very interesting suggestion! Break until 03.49.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U553	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 28 by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. 9 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 16 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 29. Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U554	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U555	Ten minutes break. We'll proceed at 4:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U556	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 29 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 10 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 18 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. We have already come to Amendment 30 unnoticed. Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U557	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U558	Ten minutes break. We'll proceed at 04.11.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U559	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 30, which has been made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. 11 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 17 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 31: Eiki Nestor, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U560	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U561	Ten minutes break. We'll proceed at 4:23.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U562	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 31 by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. 11 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 19 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 32. Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U563	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U564	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U565	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 32, tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group. The proposal of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. 6 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 18 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 33. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U566	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U567	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U568	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 33, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 6 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 15 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 34. Eiki Nestor, I listen to you very carefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U569	Thank you for your attention. I would ask for this amendment to be voted on, and I would also ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U570	That's a very interesting suggestion! We'll proceed at 4:56.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U571	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 34, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Steering Committee has proposed to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. 8 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 26 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 35. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U572	Thank you. Now, with this amendment, I would ask you to vote on it and before the vote, ten minutes of intermission!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U573	Well, that's surprising. It's completely different than it used to be. We'll proceed at 5.07.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U574	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 35 by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The lead committee has a proposal to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. 8 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 26 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 36. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U575	Thank you. I would like to vote on this amendment, and I would also like to ask for a break. But since I have so promised the MP Peep Aru, this time I will ask for a nine-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U576	Nine minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U577	Good morning, everyone! I shall put to the vote Amendment 36, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. 7 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 26 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 37. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U578	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U579	Please! We'll proceed at 5:29.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U580	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put the 37th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 8 members of the Riigikogu, against 24 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let's keep going. 38th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U581	Mr President, hello. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U582	Thank you. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U583	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put the 38th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 12 members of the Riigikogu, against 25, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let us move to Amendment 39, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U584	Thank you, manager.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U585	Do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U586	No. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U587	Got it. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U588	The break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote Amendment 39. Please take a stand and vote. By 9 and against 24 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 40 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U589	Mr President, I kindly ask you to vote on this amendment, but before the vote on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask you for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U590	Thank you. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U591	The break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put the 40th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. By 11 and against 24 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. 41th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U592	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for this amendment to be voted, and I also ask for ten minutes of intermission before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U593	Thank you. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U594	Dear colleagues, the break taken by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put the 41st amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 8 votes to 24 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 42nd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U595	Mr President, I would also like to ask you to vote on this amendment and, before the vote, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U596	Thank you. Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U597	The break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote Amendment 42. Please take a stand and vote. By 9 and against 27 members of the Riigikogu. The amendment was not supported. 43rd amendment tabled by who? Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U598	Thank you, Mr President. This is indeed an amendment tabled by the Socialists and, therefore, the Social Democrats are asking for this amendment to be voted on. Before the vote, we also ask for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U599	Thank you. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U600	The break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote Amendment 43. Please take a stand and vote. By 8 and against 26 members of the Riigikogu. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 44 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U601	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to ask for a vote on Amendment 44 and, before this vote, a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U602	Thank you. I would also like to make this wish in writing. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U603	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put the 44th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 10 votes to 24 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 45th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U604	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U605	Thank you. Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U606	Dear colleagues, it has now happened that the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put the 45th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 5 votes to 25 members of the Riigikogu; no one abstained in this vote. The amendment was not supported. We will go to Amendment 46 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the commission after the debate was that the proposal should be disregarded. Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U607	Thank you, Mr President. I also ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U608	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U609	Colleagues, recess is over. I shall put to the vote the 46th amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has not been taken into account. Please vote! 7 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 25 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 47 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and this proposal has been rejected. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U610	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U611	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U612	Colleagues, recess is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 47, tabled again by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has not been taken into account. Please vote! (meeting of 8), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 23 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 48 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been disregarded. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U613	Thank you, Mr President. I would also ask for the 48th amendment to be put to the vote and, before the vote, for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U614	Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U615	Colleagues, the intermission has finally ended. I shall put to the vote Amendment 48 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please vote! (meeting of 6) and 23 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. Again, the amendment was not supported. Amendment 49 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been disregarded. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U616	Thank you, Mr President. I would also ask for this amendment to be voted on and, before voting on this amendment, I would ask for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U617	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U618	Colleagues, the intermission is over. I therefore put to the vote Amendment 49 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been disregarded. Please vote! (meeting of 6) and 23 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Can I have your attention, please? We have reached the first jubilee, or we have reached Amendment 50, which has again been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and which has again been disregarded. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U619	Thank you, Mr President. I also ask for this jubilee amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U620	Thanks a lot, I'm sure we'll do that! Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U621	Colleagues, the intermission is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 50 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been disregarded. Please vote! (meeting of 8), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 22 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 51 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and has not been taken into account. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U622	Mr President, the Group of the Social Democratic Party is asking for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U623	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U624	Colleagues, recess is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 51 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please vote! (meeting of 7) and 24 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 52 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party and has been disregarded. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U625	Mr President, I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party to vote on Amendment 52 and before voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U626	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U627	Colleagues, recess is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 52 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been disregarded. Please vote! (meeting of 8), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 24 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 53 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and this proposal has been rejected. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U628	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U629	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U630	Colleagues, the intermission is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 53, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been disregarded. Please vote! (meeting of 8) and 26 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 54 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been disregarded. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U631	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I also ask for the 54th amendment to be voted and, of course, before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U632	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U633	Colleagues, the intermission is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 54 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been disregarded. Please vote! (meeting of 7), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 27 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 55 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the proposal has not been taken into account. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U634	Thank you, Mr President. I also ask for the 55th amendment to be voted and for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U635	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U636	Colleagues, the intermission is over. I am voting on the motion 55 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has not been taken into account. Please vote! (meeting of 7) and 24 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 56 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the commission has rejected this proposal. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U637	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U638	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U639	Colleagues, recess is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 56, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has not been taken into account. Please vote! (meeting of 9) and 25 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 57 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and has not been taken into account. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U640	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for this amendment to be voted on and for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U641	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U642	Good morning. We shall proceed to the vote on Amendment 57. This has been proposed by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the proposal of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. There were 10 votes against and 23 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 58: Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U643	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning to you too. The Group of the Social Democratic Party requests that Amendment 58 be voted on and ten minutes' break before the vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U644	Break until 09.20.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U645	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 58, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The lead committee has a proposal to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 9), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 27 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 59. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U646	Thank you, Mr President. The Group of the Social Democratic Party also asks for a vote on Amendment 59 and before this vote on a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U647	Thank you. Break until 9.31 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U648	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 59 by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 9) and 25 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 60. Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U649	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to ask for this fine round-numbered amendment to be voted on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party and I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U650	Break until 09.43.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-13_U651	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 60 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the proposal of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. There were 14 votes against and 29 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to setting up the agenda for the new sitting and the voting system, I am announcing a technical break. We'll reconvene in the hall at 10:00. Break till 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 10 a.m.
