ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the ninth working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? 25 March is the day of mourning in Estonia, and I propose that the sitting be opened with a silence of mourning, commemorating the victims of the deportation of March. [[The silence of grief.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. I ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson to speak first!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Product Compliance Act. Secondly, the draft law on public transport. The Government of the Republic is represented by Juhan Parts, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, when these two draft laws are being processed. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Law on organic farming and the Law on state fees. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder in the proceedings of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U3	Thank you. Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Social Democratic Party Group of the Riigikogu have a question to make. The inquiry concerns information published in the press last week that the need to expand the equity capital of Eesti Energia could amount to up to EUR 1 billion. At the same time, this material gives the impression that the Council does not have an overview of what money is going to be spent or where to invest and when it could happen. We will now have a good opportunity to present a number of questions to the Minister of Finance, whose administration is governed by the decision of the Estonian Energy Government regarding the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. For example, if it has now been decided to expand the share capital of Eesti Energia to exactly 350 million euros, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has information based on the forecast of cash flows that another 200 million will be allocated next year. According to information from the press, this amount may be even higher. We want to know from the Minister how much exactly the money is planned, which means that an additional EUR 200 million is planned, because the state budget strategy does not foresee it. We also ask why Eesti Energia, whose net debt to equity is 41%, does not take out loans for investments. In total, there are eight questions and we hope to get adequate answers from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted three draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to process them within three working days. If an inquiry complies with that law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. Ladies and gentlemen, now the announcements. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First, the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. a The draft Act on Supplementation to § 20 of the Pharmaceutical Act, initiated on 20 March, is the Social Affairs Committee; secondly, the members of the Riigikogu, Karel Rüütli, Tiit Tammsaare, Kalvi Tõll, Rainer Vakra, Rein Randver, Tõnu July, Ülo Tulik, Helmen Küti, Aivar Riisalu, Lembit Kaljuvee, Ester Tuiksoo, Heljo Pikhofi and Annely Akkermanni. a The draft law on supplementing the Hunting Act, initiated on 20 March, is a commission on the environment; thirdly, in Rainer Vakra, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laanet and Deniss Borodichi, members of the Social Democratic Party and Riigikogu. a The draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, launched on 20 March, is the Committee on Social Affairs; fourthly, the Social Democratic Party Group. a The draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act, initiated on 20 March, is the Rural Affairs Commission. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. Drafts submitted to the Committee on European Union Affairs on 21 March 2004. Firstly, the alternative fuels package. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic, the draft directive and the communication. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. a 11 April at 4 p.m. Secondly, the fourth railway package. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the fourth railway package. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. a 11 April at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is on your desks. I shall vote on the adoption of this week's agenda. Please vote! 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with 0 abstentions. This week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U6	Let's go to the Monday agenda this week and start answering questions. The first question to be heard is the members of the Riigikogu Marika Tuus-Laul, Valeri Korb, Priit Toobali and Heimar Leng on 13 February. a request for information on the arrangements for fishing on Lake Peipsi. Mr. Valeri Korb of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U7	Ladies and gentlemen, February 13, s. A year ago, we formed an inquiry that we sent to the Minister for the Environment. The subject of the inquiry is the organisation of fishing on Lake Peipsi. In our inquiry, we write about the Peipsi Recreational Fishermen's Club's concern that in the last five years, both professional fishermen and recreational fishermen have kept their catches on Lake Peipsi smaller and smaller. The concern of professional fishermen is that the lake's fish population has been severely reduced recently. Another problem that threatens the survival of fish species in Peipsi is that fishermen are still allowed to fish with trawls on the lake. Recreational fishers don't think it's right because the whole raft is pulled out with a net and by-catches are also extracted from undersized fish. This was never done before, and apparently this authorisation was granted under pressure from fish workers. Recreational fishermen still have no output, because their problems have not been heard, while major industrialists blame recreational fishermen for catching 'their' fish. The beach dwellers were previously permitted to use a net to fish for their own food, not just during the ban. The procedure was then changed and a single net was allowed to fish in the autumn and spring, later only in the spring. Coastal residents fear that if this continues, the inhabitants of the coastal village will soon not be able to catch the net for their own use at all, and this authorisation will only be granted to fishermen. We have five questions for the Minister, which we would like answers to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U8	Thank you very much, Mr Valeri Korb. Please, Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, to answer the question to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs and other interested ones! First of all, it must be said, of course, that, unlike the data or opinion of the accountants, scientists find that the state of fish stocks on Lake Peipsi, Lämmi and Pihkva is good. When we talk about yields and yields, in the last five years the yield has increased by around 30%. From the point of view of fishermen's income, it is certainly important that also the value of fish, the price has increased nearly twice. The stocks of these lakes are subject to cooperation with the Russian Federation. This would not be conceivable otherwise, as fishermen fishing on lakes on both the Estonian and Russian sides, and the evaluation and improvement of the state of resources will certainly play a major role in the cooperation between both Estonian and Russian scientists and between them. Now to specific questions. The first question had been put by the heirs: "What does the government intend to do to save Peipsi's fish stocks? " To explain in a word that to ensure the good condition of fish stocks, research is carried out every year on Lake Peipsi, Lake Lämmi and Lake Pihkva. Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Russian Federation for the conservation and exploitation of fish stocks in Lake Peipsi, Pihkva and Lake Lämmijärv shall take place through the Fisheries Commission established under the 1994 Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Russian Federation. A number of measures have been put in place to improve monitoring, such as prior notification of arrivals on water and electronic monitoring of bottom seines. When assessing the catches of Estonian fishermen, it can be said that in the last five years the harvests have been stable, especially in the case of spot and sizzling, or in the case of pike, latika and bass, with an increasing trend. So when we look at the total catches of the lake, from 2100 tonnes in 2008, it has increased to 2700 tonnes last year. Thanks to the location and perch, the value of the lake's catches has risen from three million euros five years ago to 5.3 million euros last year. When it comes to stocks that are not in such a good state, only ink has been drastically reduced, which is why fishing for this fish is currently prohibited. The disappearance of ink, which in itself is well caught in the short term and not particularly valuable fish, is, according to scientists, primarily due to the large numbers of predatory fish, i.e. bass and the place. Scientists also believe that the decline in ink is partly due to changes in environmental conditions in recent decades and is certainly a process for the development of the lake. The second species, which is indeed marked by a decline in Peipsi population, is the specific species of Peipsi. Peipsi's population here has been reduced, in particular due to the current unacceptable environmental conditions for Peipsi, in particular due to the poor condition of atrophication or atrophication tissue. This is also due to the short winters of several years, which cannot be said for this year, and again the very large numbers of predators. The second question: 'Why does Peipsi not have a minimum size for catching bass, as it is for fishing from the sea, in order to prevent small-scale fish from catching and to protect the survival of the species? " Once again, I can refer to scientists whose recommendations and work have been the basis. According to scientists, it is not necessary to set a minimum size for bass living in Peipsi. It is a very large number of fish in Peipsi, which can mostly spawn and give birth to fish before they are caught in industrial fisheries. This is particularly the reason why it has not been considered necessary to set a minimum size. As has been said, bass is quite numerous in the lake and current conservation measures are considered by scientists to be sufficient. The problem is rather the food base of this very large number of predators, which is scarce, and can also limit the growth of bass. However, if you consider or think about introducing a minimum size for bass, the main problem that is being warned about in such a case would be precisely discards. If those individuals who are unable to live were to be thrown back into the water, the result would simply be a hidden increase in fish mortality and certainly environmental pollution. The third question: 'Why is it that Peipsi is allowed to fish with trawls for large-scale industrialists in the context of a steady decline in fish stocks? ' I have to say that this question remained a little confusing, because the fishing for the fishing of the Peipsi industry has not been using trawls for about 20 years. Apparently, there has been some mistake about this issue. Question 4: "Why are the possibilities for the coastal population to catch the net narrowed year after year? " Once again, when you look at the real situation, the net fishing of coastal and recreational fishermen over the years has not been narrowed down, but rather moved in the opposite direction. For example, from 2001 it has been permitted to fish with a gillnet up to a distance of one kilometre from the shore in spring as early as 1 March. So the fishing period has been extended instead. These options are primarily designed to operate very efficiently on the shirt and to a slightly lesser extent on the perch. Due to the good state of the fish stocks, no closure of the spring fishery is currently foreseen. In parallel, the inhabitants of the small island are also allowed to fish for up to three net traps around the island during the same period. It is a specific feature of these regions. Question 5: "Is there a plan to produce fish plants for Peipsi? Shouldn't such an obligation be imposed on fish manufacturers whose companies extract most of the fish? " I would come back to the beginning of my questioning. In general, the state of the Peipsi stock is assessed and it is considered necessary to use it in very extreme cases. Fish should not be brought in from outside, but natural reproduction is still the most effective, and it is precisely by means of a variety of protective measures, which are both restrictions on fishing capacity and withdrawal periods when there is a need for them. We are also now investing much in restoring the spawning areas of the Peipus fish through the KIC, especially by opening and cleaning the old rivers. If we come back to the scientists again, the only species scientists have suggested, given Peipsi's fish and hydrological state, would be the same species mentioned above to preserve this species of fish that is unique to Peipsi, but also only to restore its natural potential. In the long run, as a distant view, it is certainly not sustainable and meaningful, because generally young fish coming from farms are very easy prey for predators living in the lake. These are the answers to the questions you have asked. I will be happy to respond to any additional questions that have arisen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U10	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. Let us continue with the questions and start with Mr Lembit from Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U11	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! It is a good thing that the state of the Peipsi fish stocks is relatively good, but from time to time questions have arisen among fishermen from outside the Peipsi region, and I do not think the people of Peipsi themselves are satisfied with how the country has directed and organised fishing and processing. As a minister, what do you think about whether the state of Estonia has put in place the necessary laws and procedures and whether they will be enforced? Are these laws good, and do we comply with these good or bad laws? Should we get involved more in this area, or what do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U12	Thank you. It is also necessary to check Peipsil, not only on Peipsi, but also on Peipsi. It is necessary to check and ensure that compliance with the laws is genuinely guaranteed. On the issue of dissatisfaction, it can be said that, when it comes to a limited margin and quota setting, it is obviously automatically coded that fishermen, for whom going to the lake or to the sea is still a source of income, would, of course, want to catch more. But, in general, in the case of Peipsi, it can be said that responsible fishermen understand very well the need to set quotas, because ultimately it is also in their interests that, figuratively speaking, all fish should not be caught or caught in a few years, which is too young, too small. But there was dissatisfaction, for example, when the quota was established for a whole year. At the beginning of the year, catches opened in accordance with weather conditions often meant that the quota was caught very quickly. This year, precisely as a result of negotiations with local fishermen and their proposal, the quota has been divided for the first time by six months, so that the whole quota is not caught up at the beginning of the year. This is one example where we have made changes as a result of the local people's consultation. But there are still suggestions. For example, there is a proposal that Igor Gräzini is very seriously discussing here in the Riigikogu about the Peipsivere Support Group, about how to ensure that local fishermen really enjoy as individual fishing rights as possible. The term 'individual fishing rights' has been discussed here in the past and, in some cases, this concept has become a bit of an upside-down concept. A large number of local fishermen consider it reasonable that a particular fisherman, indeed an individual or individual, should have a fishing right, so that the right is not necessarily shared by companies. Whether this can be done to create a situation where the rights of local fishermen are well guaranteed and protected, we are discussing. We will discuss this in cooperation with local fishermen, and certainly also with Parliament's Peipsiveere Support Group. It is always possible to improve the rules for locals even better, but of course all these changes must be taken into account so that fish stocks are not damaged, not only in a one-year perspective, but also in the long term. I think that, in view of the overall improvement in the growth of catches and in the state of the stocks in Peipsi, the decisions made in previous years have been correct and reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U13	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U14	Thank you. Thank you, Minister, for your answers. But there is another question I want to ask you. I believe that Lake Peipsi and rivers are a fishing system for fishermen and I do not think it is right to look at them separately. However, when you talk to fishermen, it turns out that the time rules are for Lake Peipsi and rivers, for example, we take the Narva River, different. The biggest difference is from April when the spawning time is. What does this have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U15	Thank you. The main apple of contention is probably what rules apply to recreational fishermen, whether they should be exactly the same as professional fishermen. If we look at the catch that recreational fishers catch, it is still many times smaller, and the impact they have on fish catches in general is not so significant that they should necessarily be subject to the same restrictions as professional fishermen. But I know there's a problem. I know that this has come to the table again, and we have promised not only for the Narva River, but also in other areas where the same issue has arisen, to discuss this issue with recreational fishermen. If there is any need to change the rules, there must be a need to change the rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U16	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U17	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister, you mentioned the Narva River. I remembered that somewhere around Narva, I don't know if the Narva reservoir is growing sturgeon fish. It is quite widely sold in Estonia in ordinary shops, Prisma, Maxima has sturgeon cans, etc. Whoever likes it buys it. I don't like him. He's very greasy. But if a sturgeon fish has been sold for several years, I wonder where the sturgeon mari, or black caviar, is left. I've been asking acquaintances in the area whether or not there is, moves or doesn't move. I've been asked back how much I want. I didn't mean to. Now, I'm asking you, is there a Mari or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U18	Thank you, Mr Vasilyev. This is certainly a very important issue. The Minister of the Environment and the Ministry of the Environment do not have a detailed overview of where the Mari comes from the sturgeon grown in the hot water pool generated by Narva Power Plants. I don't have an overview of it, and I don't think I have to be. I agree with you that Estonian fish could reach our own market considerably more. I would also like to see a lot more Estonian fish sold in the shop than we see now. It is often concluded that as Estonian fish are not available in our shops, the catch is very poor. This is not quite the case, because unfortunately, a large part of our fish goes for export. It's the same way, by the way, at Peipsi. I think that if local fishermen in Peipsi could sell and sell fish there on the spot, there would probably be a lot of shoppers. So on this point, I agree with you, we could certainly have a lot more fish of Estonian origin to sell.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U19	No further questions. Thank you very much, Madam Minister for the Environment. I'm opening negotiations. I'll call my colleague, Lembit Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U20	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, My interest in the situation and life of the residents of Peipsi was multiplied from a fish-economic point of view when my colleague, Aivar Kokk, came under fire with 'political motives', but I only look at the economic side. In recent years, some 2,000 tonnes of fish have been caught in Estonia from Peipsi. If you process it and then put it in cash, it could be about two million euros behind it. That would mean quite a lot of jobs. But unfortunately, that money is not going to be left there now, because more than half of the 2,000 tons of fish are being caught black. This fish goes out of there, it doesn't get tax revenue, it doesn't get processed, even though there are processing capacities on the ground. I understand that Aivar Kokk wanted to solve this problem and promised local fishermen that the laws and procedures on the ground would be made so that the fish would serve the interests of the people of the region. But now, unfortunately, this is the way the country has directed it and arranged for the fish that grows in Peipsi to serve the people of the region only to a very limited extent. In fact, most of this fish should be caught by the local people, there should also be a first-time processing on the ground and then the fish would go to the markets. We should look in Estonia to ensure that the local resource serves the local people first, that is right. It is not party policy that should be introduced here, but based on the needs of local people. Of course, it is also important to consider recreational fishermen, local pensioners who want to catch there, and any man who wants to throw a fishing rod in Lake Peipsi sometimes. In principle, however, the state should resolve the issue so that local resources are caught and processed on the ground. That should be what we're looking at. Then there would also be more jobs, then there would be more children in school, and life would go on. I watched as Peipsi had lived in the last century under different authorities and when it had been better lived. Better lives have been made while the local resource has been managed correctly and better. This can be seen from when the buildings in the area have emerged, what these buildings have been, whether they have been border guards or churches, schools, restaurants or accommodation facilities. So we should look at this Peipsi edge quite seriously in the future, and look precisely from an economic point of view, to make sure that the resource that is there is earned on the ground. The exchangers are available on the spot. We must not make laws that allow this resource to go black without paying taxes and cheaply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U21	Thank you very much, Mr Kaljuvee. I would now like to ask my colleague, Eldar Efendiev, to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U22	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I came here to help the Minister a little. Viktor Vassilyev has raised a very important question, I just want to give you a little more information. The Minister rightly said that the so-called Narva sturgeon is being cultivated in Narva power stations' infrastructure. A few years ago, however, these little fish were accidentally caught up in the Narva reservoir, and now they live there very freely. What comes out of this is very difficult to estimate, but it can also go in a way that grows out of a large population. Whether this is good or not, it is very difficult to assess ecologically now because it is a new species and it is not known how this niche is going to develop. So much can be said about caviar, and you also know very well that it can only be sold on quotas in the world. They are strictly limited, and Estonia does not have this quota, which is why Estonian sturgeonberry cannot be on the market or in our restaurants, cafes or anywhere. Part of it is used to grow small fish, which is understandable. Secondly, it still moves in the inner circle, but officially it will never come out until Estonia receives the quota. Whether we can or not, this is a very big and difficult question. If Estonia succeeds in obtaining a small quota in the negotiations, this Mari will also end up in that sturgeonberry empire.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U23	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U24	The next question is on 11 February. a presented by members of the Riigikogu Heljo Pikhof, Helmen Kütt, Rannar Vassilyev, Andres Anvelt, Rein Randver, Marianne Mikko, Karel Rüütli, Jaan Õunapuu, Neeme Suur, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Eiki Nestor, Kalvi Tul and Kalev Kotkas. Inquiry is on the care of risk families and children and children with special needs (No 283). My colleague, Heljo Pikhof, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U25	Madam President! Honourable Minister of Social Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I will continue with questions concerning children's rights and protection. More specifically, we are asking about the care of risk families and children and children with special needs. Estonia joined the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child in the early 1990s, which has formulated internationally recognised values that must be guaranteed in relations with children. Compliance with the Convention is assessed from time to time by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child. Following the last visit by the UN Committee, it was recognised that there are a number of problems that need to be addressed urgently. The audit of the National Audit Office has also drawn attention to the same shortcomings. Examples include inefficiencies in the child protection system, over-emphasis on results, and the coordination role of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the collection and monitoring of statistical data on children. It is clear that children's rights need to go further, to do everything in order to guarantee their rights and protection. Estonia is known as a country where social spending is among the lowest in the European Union. Some social scientists have called our society a very risky society. Over 60,000 children live in poverty in Estonia and a large number of children grow in families who are beneficiaries of income support. The recently published report of the National Audit Office also shows that the care and protection of children requires greater and faster state intervention to improve the situation. Children's care and protection issues are mostly organised by local governments, while around 60% of Estonian municipalities do not have a child welfare worker at all or there are not enough. As a result, the fee must be paid mainly on prevention, which cannot be sufficiently dealt with. Municipalities also do not have the necessary overview of children belonging to different risk groups. The problem is that children are not adequately dealt with in time. The care of children with special needs, where the capacity of municipalities varies greatly, is a particular concern. We are often treated as risk families for so-called socially unadapted families, for which it is risky to pay child support funds directly to parents. The risks also lie with families who have to cope with the difficulties arising from adverse conditions. As a result, we have six questions. For example, what criteria are used to define "risk families," whether economic, socio-psychological (family relationships), attitude or other indicators, such as the mental health of parents? How will such family identification take place? Depending on whether it is a kindergarten or a schoolchild, experts from different institutions must provide a kindergarten teacher, teacher, family doctor or family nurse, in some cases also a policeman, child protection worker or a social worker. Ten years ago, it was estimated that there were 4 000 to 5,000 children in Estonia who did not fulfil their school duties or were without parental care, and 100 to 200 children who did not have a real home or who lived on the street. Now I would like to know if these figures have increased or decreased in ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U26	Thank you very much, Mr Pikhof. Please speak with the esteemed Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would first like to sincerely thank the 13 members of the Riigikogu for raising these questions. For me, too, issues relating to child protection and the financial situation of children are extremely important. As you probably well know, under the leadership of the Ministry of Social Affairs, there is a new Child Protection Act, which deals most directly with most of the issues you have raised. This process is well-open and very multi-stakeholder. I hope that there will also be a very serious and constructive debate on these issues in Parliament when the draft law reaches that point. The economic livelihood of Estonian children is also a very important topic for me. Although the number of children living in relative poverty in Estonia has decreased year after year, I still consider it important to continue to support economically the children most in need. It is precisely with this objective that the new child benefit system will operate from the middle of this year. Need-based child support is the most directly addressing this problem and helping children and families living in relative poverty. I am quite convinced that already in the middle of this year, but quite certainly in the next few years, the number of children living in relative poverty will decrease further because we have substantially reformed the child benefit system. I am always prepared to consider all the proposals very seriously, and also to work towards it, so that there are proposals on how, in addition to needs-based child support, the interests of children who are most in need of state aid can be taken into account. Let's go to your questions. I'll read them quickly one by one. The first question: 'What criteria are "risk families" defined on the basis of economic, social-psychological (family relationships), attitudes (family violence and authoritarian education) or other indicators (e.g. parental mental health)? ' First of all, I would like to point out that in our Ministry of Social Affairs, the term 'risk families' is not recommended but 'children whose growth environment does not ensure that the child's individual needs are met in the best possible way'. A family member's disability, mental health, or poverty do not necessarily automatically represent a risk or risk to the child. If the family has good parenting practice and the child has value, the child's interests will be protected despite difficult problems. The question is how to identify children and families who need additional support and help. Firstly, it is necessary to create a situation where the reporting of children in need becomes a natural part of every specialist working with children, as well as of the behaviour of the citizen. The responsibility of parents to seek help on time must also be increased. As I have already said in the introduction, a new Child Protection Act is being drafted, which is expected to be completed by the end of this year, and this clarifies, among other things, the obligation for professionals working with children to inform the child in need. The second question: 'How is this definition of families going to take place, after all, must be assessed by experts from different institutions? ' On request of the Ministry of Social Affairs, a guide for assessing the child's well-being was prepared last year, which is for use by child protection workers in local governments. This helps identify the needs of the child and plan support for the child and his or her family. Child welfare workers must work in close cooperation with the network of parents, teachers, doctors and police staff on the principle of case management, which is also provided for by the Child Protection Act, as well as the obligation to assess the child's needs in the light of his or her well-being. Understandably, it is not possible to concentrate all the necessary competences in every local authority where the number of inhabitants is very low. The State is therefore planning to set up an implementation mechanism through which assistance can be obtained from the "consultation team" in multi-problem cases. The latter will be made up of specialists from different fields and has been created to support the local government's child welfare work. Such a consultation team will be flexible if necessary to travel locally and deal with specific cases at the highest professional level in Estonia. The third question: 'Ten years ago, there were an estimated 4000-5000 children in Estonia who did not fulfil their school obligations and/or were without parental care, and 100-200 children who did not own a real home or lived on the street (the result of a round table on street children organised by the Estonian Foundation in 1999). Have these figures increased or decreased in ten years? ' First of all, if the authors of the inquiry have used the results of a round table on street children organised by the Open Estonia Foundation in 1999, it must be taken into account that this is not universal data. For these data, it is not known whether children have been recognised as one-off or have been treated as new in each case and as a result, children may have been reported multiple times. Therefore, the figures we transmit are not comparable to the figures in the enquiry. At the same time, we can send the heirs in writing information about the years 2003-2011. We have these statistics, both without parental care and with children in need. Once again, these figures are not comparable to the figures in the inquiry, because the sources and probably also the methodological content may differ in some way, but they certainly give you a picture of the trends. For example, it can be said that the number of children aged up to 17 in one year has fallen by more than half compared to 2003. While in 2003 there were 327 children who entered the institution due to straying, in 2011 there were 161. The number of child welfare specialists has also increased by 30 since 2003. But I propose that, in order to save time, we send you more detailed tables by e-mail and, if necessary, we can certainly continue this debate in more detail. Question 4: "What is it going to do to increase the recognition in Estonia of staff in the field of childcare services in order to increase both the reputation and remuneration of the industry? ' Very good question. The Child Protection Act under preparation sets competence requirements for the child protection worker, the obligation to complete further training and accreditation, as well as a supervision system to help child protection workers avoid burnout. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, the planned steps help to increase the competence of child protection work at local level on the one hand and to enhance child protection work on the other. Question 5: 'In common, integrated and home-based forms of services are needed for children with disabilities and/or special needs. At what level should they be offered, given the huge differences between local authorities in terms of population and financial resources? " Question 6: " Helping children in need of long - term rehabilitation or care is inadequate. In general, care for such children takes place at home, and children living in an orphanage are often tried to hospitalise them. A parent who cares for a disabled child, mostly a mother, does not have the opportunity to self-generate, is excluded from work and education. There is also a lack of psychological support and training available to him. Is it planned to examine this issue in greater depth in the context of our labour market and labour shortages? " With your permission, I will answer these two questions together. One of the main statutory tasks of municipalities is to make public services available to residents. Each child is special and should, due to special needs, need special training or support specialists in the educational and education process or other support services, including care or rehabilitation counselling, the municipality closest to the child can best see it. It is therefore natural that it is the local authority that provides support services to the child and the family where necessary and ensures that these services are available. Since services provided to children with high maintenance needs, such as severe intellectual impairment, persistent severe mental disorder and behavioural disorder, such as teaching, development, rehabilitation, supervision and care, require a complex approach and competence and are resource-intensive, it is not best for smaller municipalities to develop and maintain a system of more complex services. In the case of those who need a high level of assistance and who need help in an uneven manner, it is reasonable to organise the provision of services in cooperation between several municipalities and to provide them in a complex way so that children can obtain all the necessary services from the same place as possible. Municipalities can work together on this already. A good example is the county foundation Family home created by Viljandimaa Municipalities Association, which serves the entire county and, in conjunction with the education service, provides a wide range of services to this target group. The state finances child rehabilitation services through the social security system, finances child care for children with severe and deep disabilities, allowing parents temporary leave from the care load, and allocates funds to provide care support to those who take care of their child at home. In addition, through the education system, the state finances education for children with special educational needs in public schools, ensuring both supervision and support for children living in a student home. However, there is no reason to keep a secret that, for me and for the Ministry of Social Affairs as a whole, it will be a very clear priority in the next budget period to finance precisely those services that relate to the care of their loved ones. This also applies to parents who are unable to go to work because the child has special needs and, at the same time, lacks access to care services. This is certainly linked to investment, but the subject is even wider. I am pleased that you are asking about these issues, they are important and, in addition to Estonia's opportunities, at least in terms of investments, certainly also need support from European Union funds. This year, the Ministry of Social Affairs is planning a thorough review of the services provided to children with high care needs and children with deep intellectual and composite disabilities, their families. At the end of last year, we conducted a survey among local authorities on the availability and need of help for children with high maintenance needs. The results of this survey can serve as a basis for planning future activities. The aim is to develop an optimal, tailor-made, integrated system of support and services, where children and their families with high care needs are guaranteed access to public services, education, rehabilitation services, and, where appropriate, supervision of the care provider as a special childcare service, through support services (supporter, personal assistant, transport). In the field of mental health for children, we plan to develop and test a stationary service in 2014 and 2015 in the framework of the mental health programme for children with severe and persistent mental illness, which is planned through the Norwegian financial instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U28	Thank you very much, Minister. Please ask a question, my colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U29	Thank you for your answer. The answer was very round and in some places it seemed as if you had not read the audit of the National Audit Office and did not know about the shortcomings that were recorded there. You said that the consultation team should assess whether the child is a risk family, what these risks are, etc. However, this does not mean that prevention will be given any consideration in the future. There are only 38 child welfare workers in the municipalities, however, the National Audit Office says directly that the child welfare worker should be in each municipality or at least children should be covered by a so-called child welfare worker so that they can get help on time. Please explain how you intend to put it into practice!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U30	Thank you. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister of Social Affairs personally are fully aware of the observations made by the National Audit Office. Throughout my answer time, about 15 minutes in total, I described the plans to respond to these challenges in the future. I spoke very specifically. It cannot be said that this talk is round when I was talking, for example, about support teams who are ready to go to the municipalities that are really very small and where such special cases may very rarely occur, to provide competent assistance at the highest possible level. We want to create a mobile or at least flexible support structure, where all necessary professionals are really available, and provide this service evenly across Estonia. Anyone who is familiar with the way in which the Child Protection Act is being prepared knows that specialists are currently discussing all these topics. As I said, by the end of this year, we will get to the point of bringing him to Parliament by the end of the bill. Then we will discuss here together, both in the Committee on Social Affairs and in the large Chamber, what we can do to ensure that child protection is guaranteed in a uniform and high quality manner throughout Estonia. As regards the complaint that the Ministry of Social Affairs or the State should have a more central view of these issues, we have this issue to resolve. It's not gonna be easy. This requires the centralisation of certain competences, which may not necessarily be pleasing on the ground, such as rural governments. But I believe that if we consult with them, it will be possible to find a solution that is primarily in the interests of children. We have to admit that rural governments have different competences in this regard, just because there are counties where there are very many of these cases and there are counties where, due to their small size, there are many fewer cases, so these issues cannot be dealt with in the same specific way. So these issues are very much on the agenda for the Ministry and today I wanted to give you a proactive response on how we want to overcome these problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U31	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U32	Thank you. Dear Minister, You are telling us about future plans, yet it is known that children need protection today. A situation where so many problems have accumulated in Estonia is completely unacceptable. I will bring another extract from the National Audit Office's report. The Child Welfare Act of the Republic of Finland has an explicit obligation to document all information obtained during the child welfare procedure. In doing so, the procedure must start already when a child who may need the care of the municipality is known. The National Audit Office points out that local governments in Estonia do not currently have such an obligation, but the National Audit Office recommends that this obligation be imposed as a matter of urgency. Explain once again how we in Estonia have happened in such a way that in very many situations we do not even know how many children we are suffering, in which situation they live, and only when something very serious has happened will we go to help.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U33	Thank you. The audit of the National Audit Office covers the time when I was your colleague in Parliament, and maybe I don't have much time to comment on that. I'll tell you what gets better. I sincerely believe that all the issues raised in the audit of the National Audit Office can be analysed by experts, that during this year it is possible to propose solutions that reduce the likelihood that such complaints can be made in two, three or more years' time. Let's discuss together how to make things better, let's not get stuck in why this has happened. We are not looking for the culprits why the system has become like this in the last 20 years. There's quite a lot of things in our system, and it's not worth leaving out either. The criticism that has been done on the organisation of child protection as well as on other issues, we are trying to take constructively, and that is what we are doing now in the Ministry of Social Affairs. We are not looking for the guilty, we are not looking so much for the reasons that caused one or the other's complaint, but we are trying to look to the future so that the new whole text of the Child Protection Act becomes one where these problems are very important. I have to say that the Ministry of Social Affairs has not taken up the Child Protection Act in recent months. It was already in the work before this specific audit of the National Audit Office; it was taken into consideration already in my predecessor's time. We will certainly be able to obtain additional valuable input from the audit, but this audit is only one part. We want to approach the subject much more closely and involve experts, as I said. There are very many places where the Ministry of Education and Research and our competences, at least partly, overlap. They are also involved in this process, as are county governments, local government associations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U34	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. Do you want to open negotiations? I'm asking for an Inara Luigas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't going to be here today, but since a mother of a disabled child from Võrumaa wrote me a letter, I'd really like to share the point of this letter with you. As the subject is that very many children and parents with children have been overlooked, and we are talking about solving problems here, it is very strange to hear that we are focusing on the future. As if we didn't know a year or five years ago what processes are going on in Estonia and what they bring with them. I am very sorry to hear that the Minister for Social Affairs is focusing on the future, saying that everything is coming, that solutions are being sought. It is very sad that problems in the Estonian country are only brought to the attention when there has been an accident with children. I will introduce you a little bit of this mother's letter: 'My son is deeply disabled, his pension is EUR 255 and EUR 60 cents, and his social allowance is EUR 43 98 cents, his monthly income is EUR 299 and 58 cents. He goes to school on Monday morning, and the school week ends on Thursday night. She lives with me. If she goes to school for 16 days, you have to pay 317 euros for the student home. " This letter shows that parents have to pay more for going to school than the child's income comes together. Of course, parents not only have to pay to attend school but also care for their children when they are at home to buy medicine, hygiene, clothing, and food. When the Minister of Social Affairs said that there was a great obligation for local governments to solve all the problems, the mother writes: 'I also turned to the Social Department of the City of Võru; it said that you will not be able to receive income support. " This means that all income and expenses were then reviewed and that this family could not receive income support. Then it was said that it was possible to pay a one-off grant. Mom made a statement in October, but a few weeks ago, that statement wasn't accepted. The most intrusive of all, the officials said why you put him in that school if you couldn't afford to pay. The child goes to the school in Mary's village, where there is one day's study form for the Räpina Gardening School. Hence my question to the Minister of Social Affairs: Does the Minister of Social Affairs even know what is going on in local governments? How competent are our social workers? I'm not saying they're not good, they're under a lot of pressure, but there's no way the state can stand by here. In addition to reading the National Audit Office's report on the care of children in local governments, the disability of rural governments and rural parents is also specifically highlighted in this situation. I have a very big request that the Minister of Social Affairs not focus on the future, but that the country be fixed today, children are already expecting protection from the state today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U36	Thank you very much, Mr Luigas. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U37	The next question is the members of the Riigikogu Kalev Kallo, Priit Toobali, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi, Mailis Repsi, Kadri Simson, Aivar Riisalu, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Lauri Laasi, Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamme and Olga Sõtnik on 11 February. a request for information on the electricity general service price. Please, colleague Kalev Kallo, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U38	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! On 9 February Eesti Energia announced the price of its general service in January. The general service price, which is derived from the exchange price and the cost-based margin, was 5.84 euro cents per kWh in January. At the same time, the company offered a stock exchange price-based electricity package at a variable price of 5.4 euro cents per kWh. In view of the stock exchange price, the variable margin of the electricity package plus VAT was 0.29 cents and the general service margin was 0.72 cents per kWh. Compared to the margins of the Estonian Energia general service, the sales margin of Eesti Energia was 47% more expensive than the cheapest general service margin. Unfortunately, 35% of Estonia's domestic consumers were able to rely on general service, which has unfortunately proved to be the most expensive option. At the press conference of the Government of the Republic held on 27 September last year, you expressed the opinion that the household consumer, who does not have electricity heating, does not have to worry about the opening up of the electricity market and can remain calmly on the general service. At the press conference, you said: 'I am a bit in a controversial role as Minister for Economic Affairs, but as a consumer, I myself have thought that the person who does not actually use electric heating is likely to act in the most sensible way and, for the time being, it will be the general service. " On December 2, you repeated the same idea on the Delfi portal, where you said that there were two options: either to enter into a stock market contract with the seller or to do nothing at all; otherwise, according to the consumer's law, electricity will be available every month at the price on the stock market. Our inquiry has been submitted on 11 February and depicted a situation that had developed on the basis of January's invoices, i.e. at the beginning of February. To this end, I would like to say that the situation did not differ much on the basis of February's invoices at the beginning of March. We have asked you four questions about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U39	Thank you very much, Mr Kallas. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U40	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good questioners! I'll answer your questions. First: 'How did you suggest at the end of last year that the consumer stays on the general service? ' As a general remark, the general service is a statutory situation if the electricity consumer does not decide to enter into any specific contract for the purchase and sale of electricity offered by the seller. Secondly, given that all consumers have only been in an open electricity market for some time, for a few months, there is no need to draw conclusions on the most sensible behaviour of the consumer. Now specifically from my comments on the issues of press conferences. The relevant section of the Electricity Market Act defining the concept of general service should be considered. Paragraph 761 (1) states that a small customer has the right to purchase electricity at a reasonable, reasonable and equitable price from a network operator whose network is connected to its electrical installation. I stress here the part of the sentence that talks about the price that follows the principle of equal treatment. In particular, the Competition Authority, whose expert opinions are largely relied on by the Minister for Economic Affairs, has also followed this principle, the content of which is likely to require further discussion between the regulator in the near future, i.e. between the Competition Authority and the network operators. We know that today the Competition Authority has initiated proceedings on the compliance with the law of the electricity distribution general service margin referred to in your question. On the basis of my information, the procedure of the Competition Authority should lead to some sort of interim result within two weeks, at most a month, because it requires substantial cooperation with the company. Then, in the new situation, we will have an adequate interpretation of the definitions of electricity market law. I dare to doubt whether the large difference between the general service margin and the large difference between the other contracts offered by the same undertaking or group of companies and the sales margins there is in accordance with § 761 (1). This should be clear when the Competition Authority comes to an end in this procedure. The second aspect is, of course, that the Competition Authority also assesses whether the company's derived general service margin complies with the principle of costorientation, i.e. whether it is possible to clearly distinguish only the justified costs of providing the general service and the reasonable commercial profit in order to assess whether that margin, which has raised questions in January, meets the meaning of the law and, to a sufficient extent, the requirements of consumer protection in the electricity market. When this procedure is over, we will probably also be able to make an assessment. This is certainly an important dispute, as the issue of the general service sales margin is quite important given how electricity sellers will shape their sales margins in the future market. The second question: 'The electricity seller was able to be elected by people last year until 10 December. Interestingly, the possibility that electricity from the general service could become the most expensive was mentioned only on 10 December, when the portals of energy companies were overloaded and people were no longer able to choose the electricity package instead of the general service. Why couldn't such a threat have been predicted sooner? ' The Ministry of Economic Affairs introduced nothing unhidden throughout the information campaign, his analysis of possible electricity prices. We explained that the general service is not social assistance, but that it guarantees every small consumer the possibility of purchasing electricity easily and clearly comparable, as I said earlier, the law provides for the basis for calculating the price at a price that is not discriminatory. This means that one small consumer must not be given priority over another and that the Competition Authority controls the price of the general service. Each network operator has several different prices for the general service in Estonia, as the price depends on the number of users of the general service in the service area of the particular network operator. Question 3: 'On 2 December last year, you told Delfi that you did not see a particular problem in the rise in electricity prices. Do you have that opinion today? " Surely, in this Delf comment, if you stay within its scope, you need to look at the context. Of course, any price increase is unpleasant, but opening up the Estonian electricity market and paying the right price for electricity will in the long term benefit both small consumers and probably the competitiveness and development of the Estonian economy. For small consumers, if we look at the first few months, the price of electricity has increased on average by 20%. However, it should not affect the price of goods and services by more than 1%, as electricity has a significantly lower share of small consumers' activities than large consumers' activities, which have been buying electricity freely on the market for three years. Reducing price increases through price regulation is unlikely, but energy savings will be supported. On the one hand, it is a process of equalising prices in an open market. The price level of goods has already reached the same level as that of the neighbouring countries. Services are still much cheaper than the European average. In the case of services, one of its main cost components brings up the cost of labour costs. Estonia has also been one of the fastest growing countries in terms of wages. Although wage increases have been below the price increase in some years 2009-2010, wages have increased faster than consumer prices over several years. Question 4: "What is the plan to do to ensure that consumers of general service also have a cost-based margin of electricity? ' As I said earlier, the general service does not constitute social aid, but is an opportunity for a small consumer to purchase electricity at a clearly comparable price even if he does not have an electricity contract or if the contract with the current seller has been terminated unexpectedly. In essence, the general service is the sale of electricity, but it is not directly subject to market conditions. The general service price, together with the cost and profit margin associated with the provision of the service, will be determined by the number of users of the general service in the service area of each individual network operator and, as I explained, the general service price will be subject to ex post control by the Competition Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U41	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's continue with the questions. Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U42	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The price of electricity as a whole has, of course, caused a lot of headaches for all people this year. If the price of electricity per se develops on the stock market, as is confirmed, two thirds of what a person has to pay are assigned a share. Here is the question of network charges, for which it has been confirmed that their rate is controlled by the Competition Authority, they are cost-oriented and take into account investments. But last week, information moved that Elering's profit, for example, was one third of the total turnover. My question arises as to whether the Competition Authority has not been up to its responsibilities. Can you add many more private companies that receive a third of their turnover net profit? It is likely that a lot has been received at the expense of the population of this company.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U43	Thank you. I would not like to start evaluating what you have referred to until the annual report on Elering has been discussed at the general meeting. The fact is that the tariff of a monopoly undertaking, such as the transmission system provider, is set on a cost-based basis. It has separate components, variable components, it takes into account investments which, by the way, are somewhat different from those of a company operating in a normal market. The Competition Authority is the institution that needs to find a balance between the justification of investments, the pace of long-term investment and the impact of the return on investment on consumer prices. It's an economic decision. Part of the core network investment programme has been approved by the Riigikogu, if we are thinking, for example, of connections with Finland. They are fixed-term, confirmed by the will of the Riigikogu. If we are thinking about the second important investment in the core network, which has raised questions in the public domain, the investment in the emergency reserve station that is being built on Kiisa, I hope you know that the Estonian core network company has an international agreement with companies belonging to the energy system of North-West Russia and the Baltic States, and the company has an obligation to provide emergency reserve capacity in the amount that concerns the largest device on this network. We know that until now the Estonian system operator has rented emergency reserve capacity from Latvia, but the deadline is running out and Latvians no longer have this reserve capacity to offer. So this, too, is a time-critical decision. Questioning the public about these two investments is, in my opinion, justified, but there is a very clear explanation here that not doing these investments would ultimately be significantly more harmful to all consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U44	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U45	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. It is the opinion that the general service must be subject to competition, as is the case with all others, and it is also the opinion that a public procurement procedure for the supply of electricity could be carried out to find a suitable electricity supplier. How do you think it would be possible to create competition for the general service, and are you in favour of public procurement?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U46	Thank you. I don't even know what those opinions are. The general service, as I said, is a statutory obligation that a network operator whose network extends to a specific consumer's place of consumption, i.e. in the case of ordinary people, must sell electricity under legal conditions. This is the subject that I was just talking about here in response to your colleagues. If a person does not want to opt for a general service, he or she will then be able to choose between different sellers. And as we have seen in practice for this two months or a little longer, the sales margins of these sellers are different. True, the share of sales costs in the final price of energy is not very high, but, if every euro cent is important, the competition from the consumer's point of view takes place so that different sellers are chosen.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U47	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To quote your sentence, at the end of last year, you thought that a person was likely to act in the most reasonable way when he or she goes on a general service. How do you feel now, almost six months later, did you fail with this recommendation or dare to share such a suggestion today?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U49	Thank you. You're amplifying it over my recommendation. You should put it in context, read the questions that journalists asked at this government press conference, and my answers to them. If you give the Minister's recommendation, 'institutional significance', that it is the only right, absolutely right choice, you are misinterpreting the verbatim of this press conference, in my opinion. But at the time, it was a very correct suggestion in case people wanted to know what would happen if they didn't do anything, if they lost electricity. The second question is now whether the general service margin or the margin requested, which depends on the network operator, is in line with the law. There is no answer to that yet. The general recommendation that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has always shared is that every consumer must learn to conclude contracts and monitor prices as much as he needs before the market opened from 1 January or in the future. Given that there were a lot of emotions, tension and uncertainty ahead of the opening up of the market, maybe now there are a little less of them, it may not have been the wrong approach if one consumer looked at one month as to what the price could turn out to be with one package or another and did not conclude any contracts. Today is March, we have two months' experience. As I said in the introduction, I think we will be able to re-evaluate, over the years and two more times, which recommendation was best. When January was over, everyone said from one mouth that, oh, how stupid we were, we could have made this stock market-price package, then we would have won a certain amount of euros. I do not rule out that in a year or two we will be in a situation where we say that, you know, how stupid we were then, we could have taken this long-term fixed-price package and perhaps in a three-year perspective, we would be winners. So it continues to be the view that each decision should still be considered by the consumer himself, with different risks for small consumers. Now we are much smarter than we were four months ago because we see what's happening in reality, there's a lot of new information. I think that it is certainly worthwhile for consumers who have not concluded any contracts to think about how to proceed and, if the contract has been concluded, it does not mean that it must be permanent, that it cannot seek another seller or correct the terms of the chosen contract.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U50	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U51	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, There wouldn't have been much need to speak, but still. In general, the principle applies here that any member of the Riigikogu may ask what he or she wants, while the respondent has the right to answer what he or she wants, regardless of the question being asked. I asked the question whether it is somehow the fault of the Competition Authority or the failure of the competition authority, if Elering has been agreed on such prices that it would gain a profit of one third of its turnover with a loose hand. There was a long answer to this as to the importance of the investments that need to be made. I absolutely do not deny the need for investment. Of course, the Minister also showed the Riigikogu that you have made your own decision. Yes, Finnish associations Estlink 1 and Estlink 2 are indeed in the energy development plan that the Riigikogu has approved. That's the way it's decided. Nor does anyone question the construction of reserve capacity for Kiisa. These investments are necessary, but the question was not related to this. The question was, on the basis of which the Competition Authority has granted Elering such favourable tariffs. Of course, at the expense of consumers, consumers are paying for all of this, so that one third of the turnover is generated by net profits. In such circumstances, every private company would bathe in gold on the free market if a third of any turnover were to be net profit. It's something that's abnormal, and here's the question. When it is stressed that network charges are under the control of the Competition Authority, that their costorientation is strictly monitored, etc., there is serious doubt as to whether the Competition Authority is incompetent or not in the control of the Competition Authority, if it is possible to obtain, at these coordinated prices, super-profits which, of course, the consumer will have to pay, which I do not think is fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U52	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. I am sorry, the Minister would like to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U53	Since Kalev Kallo criticised the answer to my question, I would like to say to him, not by criticism, but by prayer, that further questions should still remain within the framework of the question. Since the inquiry concerned the general service, we could have talked about the general service and its margin. Which doesn't mean I wouldn't be happy to answer the question of network charges. I just have a request to make an inquiry to me outside the hall we can talk about these things in a different way about network charges, including, which is very important, the methodology for setting network charges. In my opinion, this issue deserves your question and my answers, so we can talk these things out more. There's a pretty big risk of getting charged or just getting misunderstood. One might ask, under which rules, the so-called regulated business, the monopoly business can set its own tariffs, whether it has short-term effects or long-term effects, how investments are taken into account, what is the role of the regulator, how it will be adjusted depending on different economic indicators, etc. This is the result of a very long and very harmonised pan-European methodology under which they will be adjusted. It's the easiest thing to actually take a number, start slapping it and disinform people. I am happy to look forward to these issues, because I think it is worth looking at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U54	Thank you very much, Minister. Now I'm really going to finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U55	The next question is the members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Tamme, Kadri Simson, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Vladimir Velman, Eldar Efendiev, Priit Toobali, Viktor Vassilyev and Esther Tuiksoo. a an inquiry for an error in public procurement submitted on 13 February. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U56	Madam President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The content of our inquiry is an error in public procurement. Tallinna Teletorn concluded a contract with KMG Ehitus as a result of the public procurement procedure opened in May 2010 for the implementation of the reconstruction project, but a few months later the company interrupted the construction work. In order to find a new builder, the foundation conducted a negotiated public procurement without prior publication, so that the object would be completed in the course of the 2011 Tallinn Year of Culture. Unfortunately, the renovated TV tower was not opened until 2012. The Ministry of Finance took the view that the organisation of a negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice was not justified in this case and recommended that the Enterprise Development Foundation initiate a recovery. EAS claimed that 25% of the amount of the contract was recovered from the recipient of the aid, since the right type of procedure under the law was not used in the procurement. 25% of the value of the procurement is EUR 981662. At the end of January, the Government of the Republic decided to allocate EUR 827246 to the Ministry of Economic Affairs in order to partially compensate the damage caused by the Tallinn TV Tower's failure to comply with the Public Procurement Act. The Tallinn TV Tower has to find 154416 euros from its own resources. The Tallinn TV Tower Foundation was established in 2009 by AS Levira, a majority-owned company of the state, and the building rights of the TV Tower were transferred to the foundation. With regard to the above, we have four questions for the Minister. I hope the Minister will read these questions to us if he answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U57	Thank you very much, Mr Tarmo Tamm. Please, Minister Juhan Parts, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U58	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Before I go to the questions, I would point out that the second paragraph of the preamble to this inquiry is not true. I do not know where you have taken the fact that the EAS has recovered 25% of the amount of the contract. This is not a valid claim. The first question: 'The SA Tallinn TV Tower in the Council is a representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Do you consider that the award procedure without prior publication of a contract notice was justified? " It was well - founded. As a result of the public procurement procedure opened on 17 May 2010, SA Tallinna Teletorn concluded a contract with AS KMG Ehitus as a result of the reconstruction of the Tallinn TV Tower viewing platform, the construction of the conference and exhibition centre. KMG Ehitus wrongly terminated the contract, interrupted the construction work and left the construction site, which forced the Tallinn TV Tower to withdraw from the contract on 23 July, two months after the conclusion of the initial contract, on the basis of section 116 (2) of the Law of Obligations Act and clause 17.5 of the contract. This was an unforeseen event independent of the Tallinn TV Tower. In addition to the above, the Tallinn TV Tower was an important project of the 2011 cultural year and a tourist attraction of national importance. Based on the above, the Tallinn TV Tower was not able to use the open tender procedure due to time constraints. The choice of the type of subsequent tender procedure was preceded by consultation with the Public Procurement and State Aid Department of the Ministry of Finance, which led to a decision in favour of the negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice. So this was not done unilaterally by the Tallinn TV Tower SA, but in consultation with the relevant department of the Ministry of Finance. Under the type of procedure chosen, sufficient competition and multiple tenders were ensured. The Tallinn TV Tower Foundation offered to submit tenders to four construction companies who had also participated in the previous public procurement concerning the construction of the project. In addition, the public procurement for the construction and renewal of the TV Tower was also widely reflected in the media and interested construction companies were aware of this procurement. This is confirmed by the fact that the Tallinn TV Tower Foundation also requested new companies, such as OÜ Fund Ehitus, to obtain procurement documents. Therefore, the conduct of the tendering procedure was open to the public. Interested construction companies had the possibility to participate in the procurement. Thus, one of the most important principles of public procurement was the identification of the best bid through comparison of offers under existing competitive conditions. There would have been no added value in carrying out a completely new procurement in this situation. The experts take the opposite view: since construction prices had increased significantly in the meantime, the whole project would have become even more expensive by organising a new procurement, which would have run counter to the principle of the sustainable and rational use of the project's funds. The second question: 'On 28 May last year, EAS analysed the recommendation of the Ministry of Finance to initiate a recovery claim against the Tallinn TV Tower SA regarding the allegedly wrong choice of type of procurement for the execution of construction works. At the time, EAS considered that the position of the Ministry of Finance was not justified and therefore there was no basis for a partial recovery of the aid. For what reasons did the EAS change its position? ' The argument put forward in the question concerning the change in EAS's position is not precise. EAS has not taken a decision to recover the financing of this project, as it continues to consider that the Tallinn TV Tower Foundation has not been wrong in the selection of the type of procurement procedure in the construction procurement process. According to EAS, the fact that the foundation used the negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice after the contractor had left was essentially in line with the law. The EAS has therefore not changed its position as expressed in May. As the Ministry of Finance and Enterprise Estonia disagreed on the justification of the type of procurement procedure, the discussion reached the government and resulted in partial coverage of the amount of potential infringement. The third question: 'The government decided to make up for the damage caused by going against the public procurement law from the reserve. This is a precedent. For what compelling reasons was such an extraordinary provision decided? Is it not to be feared that such a precedent can become a practice? ' The statement in the question is erroneous. The government decided to cover the outstanding contribution to the Tallinn TV Tower from the state budget because the Ministry of Finance had doubts about the lawful implementation of the Public Procurement Act. The Ministry of Economic Affairs, the EAS and the lawyers who advised EAS had no such doubt. The money was allocated from the government reserve, not from European funds, in order to avoid possible judicial proceedings between public authorities. In doing so, the Ministry of Finance itself should have initiated court proceedings because the EAS is independent, independent in making such decisions in accordance with the Structural Support Act and does not have to take into account the Government's recommendations or will in one way or another. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Economic Affairs also found, in an in-depth analysis of this issue, that EAS has stronger arguments in this legal dispute between EAS, Tallinn TV Tower and the Ministry of Finance. As regards the question of whether this is a precedent, I dare say that this precedent is not for two reasons. Firstly, for all other public investments for which a recovery decision has been taken, the corresponding amount will still be allocated from the budget of the State or local government. The exact same case, which has led to a certain mid-term outcome, concerns the Maritime Museum. In this case, EAS, as the implementing agency, took into account the position of the auditors of the Ministry of Finance. EAS and the Maritime Museum went to court. And what did we just find out about the decision of the Court of First Instance? We learned that the Maritime Museum was right, not the Ministry of Finance or the EAS, who agreed with some of the arguments of the Ministry of Finance in this case. The Court, however, supported the Maritime Museum. Other cases where the construction company has abandoned the performance of the contract after the award of the contract and has interrupted the construction work remain during the economic crisis. This case has certainly given experience to both contracting authorities and the Ministry of Finance. Question 4: '2012. In 2008, the EAS had to recover a total amount of EUR 3 million. In 2011, the same figure was only EUR 140000. For what reasons has the recovery rate increased significantly? ' As of the end of 2012, EAS has committed a total of EUR 689.9 million. This represents 88% of the total budget for the period 2007 to 2013 of EUR 784 million. With this volume, EAS has recovered approximately 0.47%, i.e. EUR 3.2 million cumulatively for the period. In the last two years, the recovery amounts have been EUR 833000 and EUR 2,1 million respectively. The increase in the volume of recoveries, given the total volume of projects to be financed, is not significant if we look at the general practice of our partner countries with similar programmes. The increase in the amount of recoveries compared to previous years is due to the fact that since the period is ending and projects have actually been implemented, the volume of ex post controls has increased considerably. Of course, the so-called beneficiaries have also challenged their claims in court, and the final truth will be revealed when a judgment is given. To sum up, this means that many projects have been completed or are coming to an end relatively simultaneously and the final reports have revealed back-claim infringements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U59	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, a question from my colleague, Tarmo Tammelt.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U60	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I understand no one was wrong and no law was broken. Why, then, did the government pay EUR 827246 out of its reserve, taxpayers' money, or nearly EEK 13 million? Can you give it a logical answer? Why was such a provision made when nothing was corrupted, nowhere was wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U61	I'll explain it again. The Ministry of Finance, which is the public authority responsible for financial control of the use of European funds, carries out audits to this effect. The statements made in the audit may not be the last truth. These views are, in turn, taken into account or not taken into account by the sector or programme implementing body, which in the case in question is the Enterprise Estonia. In our practice, there are examples where the EAS is obliged, by the way, to make these decisions independently, in accordance with the Structural Support Act. The auditor's position is never the last word in this regard. There are examples where EAS has taken the views of the auditor very much into account. But as I have given an example in my reply, in the case of the Maritime Museum, the Court granted the right to the Maritime Museum. In other words, the auditors of the Ministry of Finance took the view that there had been alleged inaccuracies in the construction of the Maritime Museum, which made it impossible to pay out European funds to such a large extent to the Maritime Museum. EAS agreed with two of the seven arguments put forward by the auditors of the Ministry of Finance and went to court. However, it turned out that the sea museum was actually right. In the case of the TV Tower, EAS took the view that it had behaved legitimately and that the Tallinn TV Tower, as the beneficiary, has also acted lawfully. In fact, the legal situation was such that the Ministry of Finance should have gone to court against the EAS, so why isn't it moving forward on this basis? The question, of course, was whether it would be reasonable for a country to judge itself in substance, if legal opinions were quite different. So far, I have been relatively impartial on this issue. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has nothing to do with the implementation of this particular project or with any substantive management decision. Lawyers of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also thought that the auditors of the Ministry of Finance did not have a legally binding position of one hundred percent. The Ministry of Finance maintained its position. It made sense not to take additional risks when using European funds, but to use taxpayers' money. I would point out that the Tallinn TV Tower and its founder, AS Levira, which, by the way, do not belong to 100% of the state but also has French capital, were prepared to cover 15% of the disputed amount themselves. In this sense, there was an agreement here, but as a result, taxpayers' money was not used further. These same European funds can be spent on other projects with a public objective, the company contributed a little, and we avoided a long and costly trial.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U62	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Let me ask you a little bit more. There have been problems with all the expensive objects in public attention that have been built. Let's take the Statue of Liberty, Seaplane Harbour, now the TV Tower. A very large object, ERM, is currently being built on the side of Tartu. How do you feel about all of this building going perfectly, or are there similar problems, that it gets more expensive, that the builder leaves the object and that additional resources need to be found? What is the state of construction now, and how does it feel about the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U64	Thank you. The Minister of Economic Affairs is no longer directly involved in this construction, as it is known that 100% of the state budget is financed by the Estonian National Museum, i.e. European funds are not used. The parties are the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Finance, Riigi Kinnisvara AS and the Estonian National Museum. But I wouldn't be able to draw that kind of black and white conclusions. You could count to three. If you go through these three projects and look at their share of construction in general, the part where there are problems is small rather than large. There is a great deal of criticism of the Enterprise Development Foundation here, and you have also criticised it. But when we look at these disputed matters, I will try once again to say that these are the disputed sums, where the beneficiary has his own truth, his own truth, the auditor, and his own truth at the decision-maker. It is also likely that the government, which has initiated some kind of political program and channeled resources, has its own truth. 0.47% of the total Enterprise Estonia programmes, which amount to around EUR 780 million, are not very large. Of course, we could yearn for work to be perfectly perfect, but it is often not cases of abuse, but these are the issues of life, where the parties to the process have different understandings.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U65	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I will open negotiations and call my colleague Tarmo Tamme to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U66	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I wasn't planning on coming to the chair, but when I listened to the Minister, I didn't understand anything. After all, the fact is that in order to find a new builder, the foundation conducted a negotiated public procurement without prior publication, so that the object would be completed in 2011. In fact, the object was completed in 2012. So to justify that the object was to be completed in an accelerated manner, the Public Procurement Act could include such a point that a negotiated public procurement without prior publication could be organised at any rate. The second point is that the Ministry of Finance took the view that the organisation of a negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice was not justified in this case. Can't two ministries get along with each other and not be able to communicate so that they can understand what's right in the same way. I think I have to believe the Ministry of Finance here, because why did the government decide to allocate EUR 827246 from the reserve and pay it off? And when the Minister said that Levira also paid EUR 154416, in solidarity, I ask what is the expression of this solidarity. Levira's participation in the SA Tallinn TV Tower I cannot say, if you compare these percentages, it should be very small, but, as far as I am concerned, their participation is quite large. These amounts and proportions are not equal. The fact is that EUR 827246, or EUR 13 million of taxpayers' money, was paid out. To justify that they wanted to avoid litigation and I do not know what else I think these are not arguments that should be taken seriously. I believe in the Ministry of Finance in this case, and as long as this money has been paid out and has not been challenged in court, I think it is money unduly paid out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U67	Minister, you can participate in the negotiations, but not on the ground, but on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U68	Dear Ignorant! I really tried to explain in a simple and understandable way. Once again, this is all one of the taxpayers' money. One source of money is the European Union's resources, on which the auditor and the beneficiary of this project, or SA, had different opinions. Very simple. We could have gone to court with this, argued maybe a year, and the result would have been exactly the same. This practical solution, in a situation where there are different legal concepts, is, in my opinion, a sensible one. I hope you have also noticed another fact. Place yourself in the state of the Tallinn TV Tower Foundation, who built a popularly important object. The contractor marched off the object, but the foundation had made promises, given the status of the Capital of Culture and all kinds of important events, and had to find a solution. Of course, he consulted, by the way, with the same Ministry of Finance. He consulted EAS and, as far as I know, the people of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. As a result, the most practical solution was found to be easier procurement, where different bidders could participate, and so it went on to move forward faster in time with this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U69	The next question to be heard is an inquiry to the Riigikogu members Mikhail Stalnukhin, Lauri Laas, Marika Tuus-Laul, Valeri Korb and Vladimir Velman on 12 February this year for the recovery of unjustly imposed fines (No 286). Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U70	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Last year, the Eastern Prefecture fined 180 people on the basis of an uncontrolled speedometer. In mid-January this year, the court returned 105 people with the fine. The fines imposed in the Prefecture of the East for 180 people measuring speed with an uncontrolled speedometer amount to approximately EUR 30000 together with the fuller fee. Fines are known to be paid back from the fine money that went into the state budget, and bailiffs' fees from the budget of the Police and Border Guard Board. This situation cannot be considered normal in any way, so I asked four questions to the Minister of the Interior together with my colleagues. I hope that the Minister will also read the questions in response, but I will present the last question, just in case. Do you, Mr. Minister of the Interior, consider it necessary to apologize to all those people who became victims because speed was measured by an unchecked speedometer on behalf of their employees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U71	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. I would now like to ask the honourable Minister of Home Affairs, Ken-Marti Vaher.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U72	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs and other members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for your questioning about unjust fines. I have been asked four questions. First of all, what has been done to prevent the speed from being measured with unchecked speed meters from repeating? Last November, i.e. November 2012, I initiated a ministerial supervision at the Ministry of the Interior, which aimed to determine whether the violations brought about by the so-called verification scandal were individual cases or a wider problem concerning the management of internal control by the Police and Border Guard Board. The aim was to clarify whether the inspection was carried out in a prudent, efficient and rational manner and whether there would be an objective response to the officials' service violations. In addition, it was necessary to examine in the course of official supervision whether the regulation of the execution of service orders would ensure that the orders were executed in an accurate and timely manner. In the last days of last year, a report on the monitoring of the service was submitted. A summary of this is also available on our website. To put it briefly, we found a number of shortcomings in the internal control system. At the Police and Border Guard Board, there were rather confusing links between control, functional supervision and the implementation of disciplinary powers and the relevant working arrangements. This was also one of the reasons why the proposals made in the summary of the disciplinary proceedings in the case in East Prefecture were not implemented for quite several months. As you may recall, the internal control report was completed at the beginning of 2012, but its proposals were not implemented until last autumn. The problem was also poorly organised sectoral governance. Sectoral governance is the responsibility of the Deputy Director-General. They must manage their field systematically, thoughtfully and throughout Estonia evenly. The main problem was that the actual responsibilities of sectoral leaders and prefects were not of the required scale. It was all in the regulations, but the implementation didn't make any sense. On the basis of the results of the service supervision, the Ministry of the Interior made a number of proposals to the Police and Border Guard Board to remedy the deficiencies detected, and it started to launch activities based on the content of the report. At the moment, the focus is primarily on increasing the efficiency of operational control, i.e. internal control. The Internal Audit Office regularly participates in the work of sectoral steering groups, where it is possible to draw the attention of the persons concerned to various problems. Analysis of criminal practice in disciplinary procedures is under preparation, training on the most common infringements is continued. Raising awareness among officials, harmonising the level of knowledge. And, of course, all this in order to rule out civil servants' offences. The second question: 'An untested speedometer was fined 180 people. One hundred and forty-five cases came to court. The money was returned in 167 cases. Why didn't five cases come to court, and why didn't eight people get the money back? ' A total of 200 misdemeanours were identified together with the additional inspection carried out in November 2012, which had raised doubts that an uncontrolled speedometer could be used. The police prepared and persons seeking rehabilitation signed 170 complaints that were sent to the Viru County Court to discuss. To date, the court has annulled all these misdemeanours. Of the 170 people, 162 had paid the fine, and all of them have received a fine of almost EUR 23,000 in full. In addition, five complaints were sent to the Supreme Court under the review procedure. The Supreme Court has annulled these contested decisions and has sent misdemeanours to the Viru County Court to discuss. In these misdemeanours, Viru County Court has not yet made decisions. Three people didn't want to challenge their sentence, but one person has left the world in the meantime. No contact was made with 21 aliens, because using their contact details, no one responded, or no contact details were available. In this respect, 21 parties failed to make such decisions. According to the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, only the person subject to the proceedings or his lawyer can lodge a complaint with the court; the police do not have the right to challenge their decision in court. Question 3: "Have police workers who used uncontrolled speed meters and who did so consciously, according to the media, been punished, and how? " Early this year, criminal proceedings were completed. This procedure was initiated on 6 November 2012 pursuant to § 299 (1) of the Penal Code, which refers to professional counterfeiting. The case was closed, the case was sent to the DA's office. It has now been returned to the referee for further work, including handwriting expertise. Therefore, the procedure has not ended and no one has been punished in criminal matters so far. The fourth question was whether I consider it necessary, on behalf of my employees, to apologise to all those who became victims in a situation where speed was measured with an unchecked speedometer. Of course, I apologize on behalf of the employees of my jurisdiction. In particular, his subordinates have publicly apologized for the then chief police officer, Raivo Küüt. The Prefecture of the East has also provided excuses to all persons who have received the fine, whether they have turned to the court or renounced the opportunity offered. On the initiative of the employer, Alvar Ottokar, Head of the Traffic Supervision Department of the Prefecture Law Enforcement Office, has been transferred to another job. At its own request, Tarmo Tammiste, Head of the Prefecture Law Enforcement Bureau of East Prefecture, as well as the Police Prefect Aldis Alus, has been released from office.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U73	Dear Minister, You have at least one question. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U74	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We understand that neither the Minister nor the administration of the Police and Border Guard Board will deal with speed meters and other technical means. That is why I have a question about the size of the team that deals with technical equipment. Maybe it's small and it needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U75	Thank you for your question. In November last year, when criminal proceedings were opened and this issue came to the public, we also carried out additional monitoring of compliance with the measuring law in other prefectures, in particular with the aim of detecting possible similar cases in other prefectures. We wanted to assess possible resources and whether the organisation of work is sufficiently thought-out and covers the area of government evenly. In my opinion, control served its purpose. Similar cases were not discovered, but certainly lessons have been learned from these errors. I would appreciate that the resource you asked about is sufficient. Your question, as I understand it, concerned the existence of various persons responsible for the implementation of the measurement law in the various structural units. I do not see the need to relocate resources here, but, of course, it is primarily the administration of the Police and Border Guard Board and the leaders of the prefectures who decide on this. In general, however, there have been no such problems in other prefectures, and I assume that there have also been significant lessons learned from what happened in the Eastern Prefecture. As I have already said, this issue concerns, in particular, operational supervision, internal control system, management chains, information flow, and, to a very large extent, the link between sectoral management and operational management of the prefecture.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U76	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U77	Minister, thank you very much. It was very heartwarming to see how many police leaders resigned because of this incident. The case itself, however, was not very much like this, how do I say? was very harsh and deeply intimidating to people's sense of justice. Can politicians learn anything from the response of police leaders?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U78	Thank you for your question. As I said, it's not just about speed-measuring, the problem is wider. When police internal control has discovered offences, the internal control report has been reported, and senior management's orders have been made to carry out various tasks, but these orders have not been executed even within eight months, then it is bad. The information didn't move. Supposedly, the head of the field did not know about this case, although one of his most important duties is to be familiar with, learn from, and, of course, to ensure the methodological harmonisation of compliance with various requirements and rules. The conclusions of the Ministry of the Interior's report on functional supervision are much broader than the conclusions on whether one or the other official has specifically broken the law and what to do about these violations of the law. The report concerns the entire organisation of the Police and Border Guard Board, and I think there is certainly much to be learned from this case. We can only proceed from here by drawing clear conclusions on the division of roles and responsibilities between different levels. This analysis has been carried out at the Police and Border Guard Board at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year. Various working groups have worked on the division of responsibilities and roles in the management. We can also move on from here because the police learn from their mistakes. Certainly, the new top executive and the team that runs the Police and Border Guard Board will have to draw fundamental conclusions in the future. I repeat this point: one of the most problematic parts of the work was precisely the division of responsibilities and responsibilities between the chief police officer, his deputy and the prefects. It is necessary to define precisely who is making the important decisions at what moment, how one or the other manager reacts to the transgressions of his subordinates, draws conclusions on the fulfillment of human responsibilities and, of course, exchange information. After all, it was not just a matter of measuring the speed of one, two, or three uncontrolled instruments, but of almost 200 misdemeanours. There is nothing I can do to inform you about this incident at the end of 2011, and it was also made public on the initiative of the police. They did not consider it normal that, in essence, nothing changed in the Prefecture of the East within eight months of the breaches detected by internal controls.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U79	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U80	Dear Minister, I would still like to clarify, because for me, things aren't clear yet. Did those policemen who used these instruments know they weren't showing the right way? Were they consciously using them, perhaps knowing that the result was not right? Or did they not know that the instruments were unchecked and that they might not fix the speed correctly? And who had to check it out, either those cops or somebody else on this team or on the outside?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U81	This is a legitimate question and actually coincides with question 3 of your inquiry. As I said, criminal proceedings were opened on 6 November to determine whether it was professional counterfeiting under § 299 (1) of the Penal Code and the liability of one person or another. It is difficult for me to answer this now because criminal proceedings have not ended. In order for you to perhaps have a little more answers, I referred to the summary of our report on the monitoring of business on 28 December 2012, which sets out the results of our monitoring procedure. The drafting of this report was aimed at drawing conclusions on the organisation of work and understanding wider problems on the basis of this one case. I briefly touched on the conclusions made in my reply to the question, and there are quite a few of them. There are also proposals on our side for the Police and Border Guard Board to address the shortcomings, which is why a number of steps have been taken. But a direct answer to your question will be received after criminal proceedings. It then becomes clear when these instruments were deliberately and intentionally used. As I said, the criminal case has now been returned to the prosecution for further action, a number of further expertise will be carried out. After that, the criminal proceedings will continue. All this is done under the direction of the Viru District Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U82	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U83	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to thank the Minister for the Interior for his exhaustive answers. But to thank him, I wouldn't have come here on the remote. I want to mention two things that have been revealed in connection with this inquiry. Firstly, it has become clear that our Minister for the Interior can, if he wants to, answer specific questions specifically. I would like to remind you that there was an inquiry on the agenda last Monday, entitled 'An inquiry into corruption crimes'. We discussed this issue for the second time then, and for the second time, the same question had been put, to which the reply required the Minister to take a certain position. Later, in the round of questions, I read the question again, but still did not get an answer. Today's inquiry has been positive for the reason that it has become clear that it makes sense to ask the same question. Considering that practice makes a master, you can expect to learn how to answer questions. Point 2. I don't know if you've heard how little monkeys are caught in some African countries. There's such an original trap that a regular bottle of milk is tied to a tree with rope and there's a small apple in the bottle. The apple fits in the bottle and the monkey's hand fits, but if he grabs the apple, that fist doesn't come out. Usually, the monkey sits and waits for the man to come and grab him because he just doesn't have enough brains to let the apple go. In this sense, it was a positive question that, given last Monday's experience, I thought that maybe the scandal of these unchecked speed meters was the fault of some side-state TV channels or of an unfriendly state against us, so was the expression of Mr. Minister a week ago, a neighbouring state that would be activated before the Estonian elections. This year, therefore, is the time to activate. But today it turns out that this little African animal doesn't always hold on to an apple, sometimes he still lets it go. I mean, it makes sense to ask questions, it makes sense to talk. Today we have received very good and concrete answers to each question. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U84	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U85	We will move on to the sixth inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Kalle Laanet, Rainer Vakra, Lembit Kaljuvee, Inara Luigas and Deniss Borodich. An inquiry has been submitted on 18 February 2013, the subject of which is the salary increase at the Police and Border Guard Board, and it bears the number 291. The inquiry is answered by Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. I will give the floor to Deniss Borodich, the representative of the heirs, to introduce the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Alliance of Democrats, we have submitted an inquiry to Ken-Mart Vaher concerning the salary increase in the Police and Border Guard Board. We were all very happy to hear there's going to be a raise at the Police and Border Guard Board. After all, it is known what a problem this has been, that the average salary of almost the largest institution in Estonia has not been competitive for years. At the same time, it is the knowledge that people who care for our security have received professional training and are motivated and have the best tools that will ensure that society feels secure and secure. Valuable remuneration should be self-evident. Until now, however, information about the salary increase has led to conflicting feelings among the police and border guards. The increase in the grade wage, the reduction in the level of employment and the change in regional fees, including bonuses, have led to a situation where, for example, the salary of a specific police officer rose by 44 euro cents per month. Similar examples can be found; unfortunately, this is not an isolated case. In our view, such wage regulation does not ensure that the staff of the Police and Border Guard Board cope with the general rise in prices and the increase in the cost of services. In this regard, we have four questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U87	Thank you. I ask Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, to answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs and other members of the Riigikogu! I have been asked four questions concerning the salaries of the Police and Border Guard Board. The first of these: "Was it known in advance which employees of the PBGB had no reason to expect an increase in wages? ' As we said last autumn, the wage increase was about 80% of the employees of the PBGB. It is 4522 people, or four fifths of the IPA officials, or even more specifically 3726 police officers and 796 employees. Estonia is almost the only country in the European Union where in 2013 the budget for both the public sector and internal security staff increased in this volume. The average increase in public institutions was 4.3%, and the police payroll increased by 6%. The most important improvement in wage increases was the motivation of those who were at the lowest level in the grade list. The minimum wage rose by 9.6% in the PBA, and these employees are around 3000 in the PBGB. As I have said, wage increases were a prerequisite for wage fixing, for wage reform, which simply means that the salaries of persons performing similar tasks have been harmonised. Harmonisation has been an important keyword this year. A significant part of this 7 million resource has been consumed. Why is harmonisation so important? Because in 2010, when the joint institution was set up, the wage systems of the various institutions were also taken over, i.e. the border guards and the police, as well as those of the Citizenship and Migration Board. This year is the first opportunity to make the pay system even. I would add so much that the wages increased, in particular, for those who have earned lower salaries and for police officers working at higher risk, i.e. police officers and regional police officers, traffic police officers, border guards patrols, police officers and special forces. On average, the wages of the regional police increased by 14% and those of the regional police who earned less than the average wage of Estonia in 2012, which is 855 euros, rose by at least 7%. The highest wage increase was paid by 90% for border guards, including 92% for police officers working in this area. You also referred to a 44 cent raise. There may be a number of factors that need to be taken into account. For example, the person worked until 31 December 2012 in a job with already higher salaries, or in an increased employment risk position, part-time, where the salary increase was not 25 euros, but depended on his or her working time. We also decided not to pay an increased risk premium for those positions where wage increases are intended as a separate motivation, such as the corruption crime office and the investigators-parent investigators of the office dealing with the proceeds of crime. You were probably referring to one of the employees of the North Prefecture detention facility, but of course this case needs to be clarified separately. We are talking about 5,500 people, but certainly such cases are also important, and we would also be happy to analyse it on the basis of the principles that I have presented to you here today. The second and fourth questions: 'How does the PBGB intend to ensure that sufficient human resources are put in place to correct the wages that have now been realised? Does the Ministry have a plan of action in place if the fact of an increased negative flow of footage in the PBA, as compared to the usual one, should be confirmed? ' First of all, staff leaving the organization. As a problem, it's the same question as to whether the glass is half empty or half full. Imagine 5,500 people in one organization. I assume that no inquisitor claims that there should be the same frame in some organization over the years, or people wouldn't move at all. That would be unthinkable! The question is within the limits of whether or not the departure of staff is within acceptable limits. The current turnover of staff, by which we mean the number of people who have left at our own request, has remained within 5 to 6% of the year. For example, in 2011, PBA had a turnover of 4.6%, while in 2012 it had a turnover of 5.6%. This is not something we can call great fluidity, and there is probably reason to argue that the people who have chosen the profession as a police officer are still relatively loyal to their profession and their mission. Typically, the acceptable turnover of staff in organisations is about 10%. However, we cannot conclude that if the staff turnover is 5%, we will be fine with staff or motivation. Not by a long shot! Rather, I would point out that people are loyal. They have chosen this profession and want to do this work for decades, not a few years. They have received proper training, the state has contributed to their training, etc. But the wages aren't enough. Thus, the launch of the first phase of the wage reform on 1 January 2013, the harmonisation of wages, as well as the raising of wages, is reflected in the desire to take very concrete steps to increase people's motivation and reduce the drain of good professionals. It is difficult for me to come up with a better plan of action, especially when it comes to such a large organisation, where wage increases have not been for years. But, of course, it is not just about the police, but also about other public sector organisations, because the economic crisis simply did not have the opportunity to raise wages. And the third question: 'When will the feedback be examined, whether the fixing of these salaries met the objectives set and to what extent? 'As I said, the PBGB payroll increased by EUR 7 million. It was precisely the harmonisation of wages that absorbed a significant part of this. I would have been very pleased if this had taken place at the same time as the creation of the Common Authority at the beginning of 2010. Unfortunately, for understandable reasons, this was not feasible for the Estonian state at the time. That is why we are now patching holes from the past, but of course we are happy to do so. Now there is at least one necessary step again taken to ensure that the motivation of police officers and other IPA officials to do their work is high. As of 1 April 2013, salary will be paid to all employees of the PBGB on the basis of a uniform wage system. The analysis will certainly continue and we intend to take the next steps towards wage harmonisation in the second half of next year. In addition to wage increases, other important assumptions have been created by law and work organisation to increase the motivation of police officers. For example, police officers have separate social guarantees and grades of service. The latter is of no minor importance. In essence, this means that every three years, when a person has worked impeccablely and the other conditions have been met, his rank will be increased and his salary will increase accordingly. In addition, we have already spoken in this hall about the internal regional fee at the Police and Border Guard Board. This concerns, in particular, the Prefecture of the East and the Prefecture of the North. In the eastern region, additional living expenses are reimbursed and there are other benefits. Such additional levers of motivation have been created. An increased risk premium will also be paid as of 1 January 2013, which was not previously the case. This will enable us to raise motivation this year for all those who work in high-risk positions. This is what I have explained several times in this Chamber when answering questions about who belongs to this target group. It includes a significant number of people whose lives are quite in danger every day, who are at the front line of the police. In conclusion, we are working hard to make a significant contribution to human resources. At the Police and Border Guard Board, and I dare say that in the entire area of government of our ministry, people are definitely the most important priority. This is a very large area of government in terms of staff, and in addition to all these people, their contribution, their judgment, their experience, their knowledge, their ability to communicate with citizens, their problems to solve, and to be calm enough in the event of a crisis to resolve situations in a secure way, it is very important to us. Police officers, particularly those working on the front line, face a huge responsibility and it is absolutely clear that we must stand up for their motivation as a state and as a society. We will do so within the limits of the possibilities available, and I would dare to say more. This is also the direction we want to keep in 2014 and this is what we are thinking about, essentially, in the budgetary negotiations process that has already begun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U89	Minister, there is at least one question for you. Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U90	Good Minister, I have a very specific question. You said that the wage increase of at least 6% concerns almost 80% of the employees of the PBGB. Perhaps the problem is that we are trying to find out here that a large number of employees, including the employees of the PBGB, take as a salary the income they receive as a salary, which may consist of salaries, bonuses and other bonuses. I understand that according to the parties concerned, income has not really increased. Maybe the pay went up, but some kind of extra fee was lost. Are we just talking about pay, or are we talking about an 80% increase in income?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U91	We're talking about 80% of the workers growing their income. As a result of the wage reform, the structure of the components of the police's income was also changed: the share of the basic salary increased and the share of the premiums decreased. It has a positive effect, apart from improving social guarantees. Social security is linked to basic salary and the share of basic salary has increased. In January, the government approved the internal grade chart of the Police and Border Guard Board, where grade rates were raised at all levels. The rise in basic wages also increased the level of social security guarantees, which also improves people's motivation. So we're talking about income growth. Those 20% who did not have an income increase are people who earned more than the median wage, who already received a good income compared to others. But if the fifth does not rise, and this fifth is 1,200 to 1,300 people, I have no doubt that there is dissatisfaction among this fifth. I dare stress once again that, from the outset, we have been saying that wage reform, wage harmonisation is an extremely important first step ahead of wage increases. After in-depth negotiations and discussions with the administration of the Police and Border Guard Board, we took this step and this enabled four fifths to raise their salaries. Next year we can move forward. Why was wage harmonisation so important? Because it is now possible to approach the entire workforce evenly. There was no such opportunity before. If we had failed to do this stage of wage reform, we would have created more inequality and injustice by treating different target groups differently. Now, however, we can talk about the fact that when people perform similar tasks in different positions, their remuneration is more or less equal. In the coming years, I hope we can continue to raise wages and then approach people and their salaries in the same way throughout the organisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U92	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U93	Let's move on to the next question, which is the seventh. It has been presented by members of the Riigikogu Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Peeter Võsa, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendiev, Tarmo Tamm, Kalev Kallo, Aadu Must and Viktor Vassilyev on 19 February 2013. An inquiry is about illegals and bears the number 293. Reply to Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher. I will now give the floor to Mikhail Stalnukhin, who will present the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U94	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The subject of questioning is illegals, but before I go to the subject, I want to make a little introduction. Estonia is now something like broken glass. The cracks go from top to bottom, from right to left, diagonal, etc. Recently, I read the news from the Russian-language electronic version of Äripäev that Estonia is 16th in the euro zone among 17 countries in terms of the prosperity of the population as a whole. On average, we spend about 1/11 of what is being spent on the population in much more developed eurozone countries. We can sense this line between poverty and wealth, this gap is very wide and deep. At the same time, there is a vertical division in Estonia. Look at how the political debate is working and what is happening right now. Basically, every day it gets worse, you can't even find a common language. If my memory doesn't fool me, it was a month ago when I read Mart Laar's interview, where he discussed the topic of the direction towards Estonia, which is our goal. It is strange to think about this after 20 years of independence. Due to the provocation of the Ansip government in 2007, we also have intense inter-ethnic relations and there seems to be no desire to engage in dialogue between the two major ethnic groups. There is another set of topics that will be added. I recently answered a journalist's questions. He had the Citizen's and Migration Board's records at hand. If you believe them, 300 people came to live in Estonia legally last year, mainly from Asian and African countries. Migration increases every year. However, poverty and wealth and political inability to find a common language among larger ethnic groups are also increasing. There is a risk that in the coming years we will have another problem with new migrants. This migration can take place both legally and illegally. That is why my colleagues and I are asking the Minister for the Interior four questions. One reason we are doing this is the fact that in February the border guards held 26 Asian illegals in the administration of the Southern Prefecture. Reports of illegals detained at the border are becoming increasingly frequent, and this leads to thinking of the need to systematise information in this area. I hope that the discussion on these four issues will help us do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U95	Thank you. I ask Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, to answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you for your inquiry. You are asking how many illegal border crossingrs have been detained in 2011 and 2012 and whether such crossing constitutes a threat to national security. In 2011, a total of 186 illegal border crossings were detected at the external borders of the Republic of Estonia, which identified the participation of 348 persons. In 2011, the PBGB staff held 260 border crossings. It is estimated that up to 80% of the detained border crossingrs have committed an infringement because of navigational errors, i.e. missing or inaccurate navigation tools. Most of the infringements have been registered near the temporary control line on Lake Peipus, the Narva River and the Narva Water Reservoir. In 2012, PBGB staff detected 215 cases of irregular border crossings at the external borders, where 389 persons were identified. 207 border crossings were detained. In 2012, nearly 64% of persons detained during illegal border crossings were apprehended on Estonian territory. As far as the dynamics of the process are concerned, cases of misuse of visas at the border crossing points of the working area of the Eastern Prefecture are subject to moderate pressure on our external borders as regards illegal immigration. In 2012, the share of group illegal border crossings in illegal immigration increased, especially due to the very same Vietnamese people who illegally crossed the temporary control line in the working area of the Southern Prefecture. It can be said, however, that illegal immigration into Estonia is still so small that incidents such as the one in the Vietnamese case find a bright reflection in Estonian society, and they also arise in statistics, mainly because there are very few. I will also try to answer the part of the question concerning the internal security of the country in this context. We have reason to claim that Estonia has so far not been a destination country for immigrants. We do not have communities of people from the countries of origin, but it cannot be ruled out that third-country nationals are going to Estonia in the course of the pendulum migration. Looking at the last few years, the security situation at the border in 2012 was somewhat more intense than in the past. From the point of view of cross-border crime, a 'average' rating may be applied to the level of danger at both the external borders and the internal borders. The decline of the level to normal is limited by the constant pressure of illegal immigration and transit on the external borders, both organised groups and individuals trying to access the area of free movement. The second question is which countries have illegally crossed the border between 2011 and 2012. In 2011, 66% of Asians illegally crossing the external borders were Vietnamese citizens, followed by Afghan citizens. African illegal immigrants came mainly from Algeria. The CIS countries had the largest number of border crossings from Armenia. In 2012, 58 persons were detained by the PBGB's staff at the external border due to illegal immigration, most of whom, i.e., 46 were of Vietnamese origin. There were four Armenians, four Syrians, two Russians and Algerians. Those who crossed the border illegally for smuggling purposes were discovered on Estonian territory 60, 15 people were detained, most of them Russian citizens. The citizens of Latvia were three, one of Estonian citizens, one of undefined citizens. The third question is what the Estonian state is doing about illegals. Does this have to do with spending public money? If yes, what amount was used for this purpose in 2011 and 2012? In Estonia, an illegal procedure is started after the person staying in the country without a legal basis has been apprehended. As part of this, the person is ordered to leave Estonia, if necessary, a refusal of entry is applied and it is assessed whether the person is to be deported to the country of origin or transferred to another country in the framework of the readmission procedure. If removal or readmission is not possible within 48 hours, the person shall be sent to the expulsion centre with the permission of the administrative court. A person may stay at the expulsion centre until expulsion, but for no more than 18 months. For 2011 and 2012, the costs of removal and removal are available. The costs of the Expulsion Centre shall be borne by the state budget, while removals to third countries shall be financed from the amounts of the European Return Fund project "Implementation of forced expulsion', removals from the state budget to European Union countries. The costs of the Expulsion Centre have been more or less the same in both years, around EUR 320000. Expulsion costs were EUR 63000 in 2011, EUR 187000 in 2012. Question 4: 'On 1 February this year, the Estonian media announced our citizen, who was sentenced to six months imprisonment in Lithuania for smuggling Vietnamese across the border. Have there been similar cases in Estonia? " Between 1 January 2011 and 25 February 2013, the PBGB has opened 19 criminal proceedings on the basis of § 259 of the Penal Code, which is 'illegal transfer of an alien across the state border of the Republic of Estonia and temporary control line'. Of these, 12 are pending, one is referred to the prosecutor's office by means of a summary of the pre-trial procedure and five have entered into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U97	Minister, thank you. You have at least one question. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U98	Mr. Minister! Can a person who has illegally crossed the border apply for asylum in the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U99	In my opinion, such a person has the opportunity to file an application for asylum, but there are certain limits to this by law. For example, a very small number of Vietnamese people have applied for asylum, as far as I know. In such a case, the asylum application procedure will be launched, under which various circumstances will be assessed. You can also apply for asylum at a national border. There the application is dealt with by certain police officers, who may also immediately decide to refuse, on the basis of certain circumstances. As you know, clarification of the grounds for an asylum application is currently also in Parliament's proceedings as a separate draft. As far as I know, this is a second reading. I have already presented this draft in Parliament. It extends the possibilities, defines additional grounds for refusal when deciding on asylum applications, in accordance with the principles of the European Union, but above all whether individual persons could jeopardise our public order and Estonian internal security. With your question, Eurostat's latest statistics, according to which fewer asylum applications were submitted in Estonia in 2012 than in any other country in the European Union. If I remember correctly, that figure was 75 in 2012. In so doing, we are three times behind the country in the penultimate position. However, if we take the number of asylum applications per 1000 inhabitants, Estonia is not the last place, there is Portugal. Estonia shares the penultimate place with Spain. This means that there are also developed countries in the European Union where the number of asylum applications per 1000 inhabitants is relatively low. But if you ask whether the small number of asylum applications shows Estonia's poor attractiveness or the work of our police, I will give you such an answer. In reply to the inquiry, I have already stressed that Estonia is not, for the most part, the destination country of emigrants. Estonia is a country of transit and illegally crossing the Estonian border is the destination of much more western countries. In my opinion, the good work done by the Estonian police at the border can be highlighted mainly by overcoming some of the existing bottlenecks. That's what we saw last year and last year when the border was able to identify the true goal of quite a number of people illegally crossing the border. They wanted to get to other parts of Europe, but before that, they wanted to get to Estonia. They were detained at the border because they had certainly not left their homeland because they were under non-humane circumstances or were in danger of their lives. In fact, they tried to get to Europe to start living better. Estonia closed that hole at the border. In May 2012, for example, citizens of the Democratic Republic of Congo were detained at the border. They were immediately returned from the border because, according to previous experience, it was known that if such persons were sent to Illuka's accommodation centre, they would apply for asylum, but within about a week they would leave Estonia. This is an unsupervised accommodation, and in fact these people are going to seek happiness and better hunts, for example, to France or Belgium. Such cases are characterised by illegal immigration to Estonia in recent years. At the same time, it is clear that we can take a step forward, particularly with regard to the procedure for asylum applications relating to illegal migrants. Therefore, the relevant draft has also been submitted to you. I would like to remind you that its main objective is to establish a detention centre near Tallinn Prison and, of course, to carry out more smooth procedures concerning illegals in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U100	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U101	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. All these years Estonia has been a country through which illegal routes pass. I've sometimes traveled past that center in Ida-Virumaa, near Vasknarva, and really, there are no people around this house. Statistics show that the number of illegals is getting bigger, but we're still not the destination country where they want to organise their lives. How long do you think the situation will last as it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U102	Thank you for your question. The wealthier the Estonian state becomes, the better the lives of our people, the more attractive Estonia will become. We may not be able to compare ourselves directly with the Nordic countries. Sweden is the most popular asylum application country in the Nordic countries. Other Scandinavian and Nordic countries are significantly lagging behind Sweden, although all countries in the region have a very high standard of living. Much depends on national application procedures and whether immigrants are subject to open-door policies. At the same time, the pressure on immigration will certainly increase also in relation to what is happening much more in the countries to the south than in the countries of Africa in particular. The immigration pressure on the European Union stemming from the Arab Spring was noticeable and very many countries of the European Union went to great lengths to contain it. Right now, there's a hot spot in Syria. In the last six months, however, the transit corridor in Belarus has developed considerably. Recent data from the European Union confirm that, precisely on the Belarusian-Lithuania border, the flow of immigrants has increased. It's not a drastic growth, but compared to the past, the pressure is still significant. In general, illegal immigration in the European Union, especially on the southern border, represents a very small percentage of the pressure on the eastern border. At the same time, even a small change in this percentage will affect us and the other Baltic countries. Estonia has so far been a transit country. How we can protect our country from threats to internal security and public order depends in many ways on our own actions, on the work of our police and border guards. I am sure that in five years' time, we will be talking about a completely different number of asylum seekers. The pressure of immigrants is likely to increase. Unfortunately, there are many countries in the world with unstable conditions and, as we have seen in recent years, there have been ever closer to Europe. And in today's world, logistics and transport are highly developed. We are already dealing with illegals from Vietnam, who are being brought to the border of our country in an organized manner and are illegally helping to overcome it. It is therefore clear that we must be prepared to cope with this pressure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U103	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U104	Dear Minister, I will continue with the previous question. You said one corridor was through Belarus and Lithuania, and it is also eastward. But here's the question. Are these people also illegal in Russia, Belarus, Lithuania or elsewhere, or are they still legally present there? Are they illegal only in our territory, or are they illegal in all their migration?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U105	We are talking about people who come to Estonia illegally or who are involved in organised crime when they are brought here. As I said, quite a number of criminal cases have been initiated here in the last two years, relating to the smuggling of foreigners across the Estonian state border or the temporary control line. These people have not received legal permission to enter Estonia and their real purpose is not so much to enter our small country as to enter the territory of the European Union. So in the European Union with open borders, one topic is the arrival of illegals in Estonia across the Estonian-Russian border, the other topic is the transit of illegals through the territory of Estonia coming from our southern neighbours, Latvia and Lithuania, with the probable goal of moving on to Scandinavia or elsewhere. This issue must be actively addressed, and it will be dealt with at our southern border according to risk analysis. If people are to be smuggled across the Estonian-Russian border, then, of course, very much depends on the work of Estonian border guards, how well such violations can be detected. In recent times, this capacity has certainly grown and is constantly growing. The Estonian-Russian border is very long, and as the number of such attempts increases, the possibility of some groups or individual artists crossing the border and passing through the Estonian territory without being discovered will certainly increase. I hope, however, that there are very few such cases. But, as I said, there could also be crossing the border from other countries south of us. Throughout the territory of Estonia, efforts are being made to move to Scandinavia, as Scandinavia is a much more attractive destination than the Baltic countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U106	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U107	Let's go to the next question, today it's number eight and it's number 296. The subject is the departure of police and border guards from the PBGB. Reply to Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher. I ask Mikhail Stalnukhin, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, to introduce the inquiry!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U108	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of this year, Estonian media readers were shocked by headlines that sounded like police and border guards were bleeding to death. And actually, that's it. I will read you a quote from one article: 'The Police and Border Guard Board loses a hundred employees every year. In an institution with the largest number of employees in Estonia, this represents a few per cent loss of staff per year. This is a hole that cannot be filled by the annual additions to the National Defence Academy graduates. " So the critical limit is at hand. The holes created over the years to ensure internal security can be filled by continuous combining and spending large resources. The most critical situation is the situation in Ida-Virumaa and Tallinn. This situation can't go on for long. Consequently, we, a total of nine members of the Riigikogu, have four questions for the Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U109	Thank you. I now ask Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, to answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U110	Honourable heirs, thank you for your questioning. However, you have presented it mainly on the basis of the title of one article. So this is not about shocking the Estonian people by placing such headlines, but one article in one of the media publications of the Republic of Estonia. When you read this article, you realized that its title was completely disproportionate to its content. The story was about a concern, and certainly an important concern. This concerns an organization with five and a half thousand employees. At the same time, in February 2013, when a wage reform had taken place, with EUR 7 million allocated to increase the motivation of workers, and a higher wage increase than the average in the public sector had taken place, there was no reason to claim that this institution was bleeding out. To put it mildly, it was a strange title. But since you've built your inquiry on this title, I thought it was necessary to explain it. My answer, however, largely consists of the information that I have already shared from this remote control today, so I don't want to talk for a long time. I'm going to go over a few principles. You are asking, first of all, whether this 7 million should be added in order to ensure that the salaries of border guards are competitive on the labour market and when we intend to solve the problem. Then on to some of the questions: 'There is a particular serious problem with patrol officers. What measures do you expect to employ experienced police officers in the near future? What is the critical border of the Police and Border Guard Board, below which do you think Estonian internal security would seriously suffer? Who bears the political responsibility for police and border guards bleeding to death? ' Again, you're talking about this title! But let it be the title, as it is. I will answer very briefly. On 1 January 2013, the salary increase took place precisely because of this problem. As you know, the principle is very clear: if the Estonian state has opportunities, public spending will increase. If the Estonian state does not have the opportunity, if the tax money does not receive enough, if our cost-benefit ratio does not provide opportunities to spend more, then wages cannot be increased. The Estonian state has a balanced and conservative fiscal policy. I believe that this has saved us from the many problems that have hit several European countries. As I said, we are almost the only country in the European Union capable of raising salaries this year in the field of internal security. I hope that we will have such opportunities in 2014. Then we can further increase motivation in the area of internal security, particularly in the lines of action to which you refer. As I said, the wages of all the patrol officers rose this year, and the salary of a large number of patrol officers was quite decent. After all, this is a high-risk job that has been paid a low wage so far. The wage reform affected those who work in Estonia's rural areas. I repeat once again: the minimum wage for the employees of the PBGB rose by 9.6% this year and there are around 3000 people in the PBGB who receive such a salary. The salaries of police officers increased by at least 5% when they earned less than the average wage in Estonia, i.e. less than 855 euros. But there are also a significant number of people with a higher wage increase. You were just asking about the patrol police, which is why I'm talking about them. Regional police officers, or district constables, have been mentioned here many times, but we also have border patrols. In the area of border control, 92% of police officials had an increase in wages. I'll come back again to the police reported bleeding to death. In my opinion, diplomatically speaking, this is a journalistic exaggeration. I am absolutely convinced that this EUR 7 million will also be used by the Police and Border Guard Board to bring fresh blood to the system. Blood exchange is reasonable in any organization. As has been said, the turnover of staff at the Police and Border Guard Board is currently 41⁄2%. For example, in 2010, this figure was 6,5%, and in 2012 it was 5,6%. So the turnover of the workforce has decreased. I will not, under any circumstances, list these figures as justification, but only as a demonstration of unscrupulous statistics. It is clear that we can still do a great deal to boost the motivation of people working in the security field, and I will certainly stand up for this. In conclusion, within the limits of the possibilities that our country has, we have created and will continue to do so in the future in order to increase motivation. As I mentioned, one of the results of the wage reform is also an increase in social guarantees. If we have increased the share of basic salaries and reduced the share of premiums, this means that social guarantees are greater. That, too, should add the motivation to do the job well.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U111	Minister, thank you. You have questions too. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U112	Minister, thank you very much. You spoke for a long time here about a title that is not consistent with the content and then about new wages. But here is also the fact that almost a hundred people quit every year, which is a few percent a year. A good friend of mine works for the Police and Border Guard Board, and he is very concerned because older people with experience are constantly leaving there and there are no such people coming to replace them. You also spoke in your reply about the fluidity, which means that people will go and come. But the information is that people are going, but there aren't so many arrivals. This is particularly the problem of border guards, which have become weaker and weaker. Doesn't that threaten the protection of our borders?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U113	As I mentioned, in the area of border guards, the highest percentage is those whose income increased by 92% of officials. In the whole PBA, around 80% of workers, or four out of five, had an increase in wages, while nine out of an average of ten employees in border guards. I agree with you that there is a drain. This was also mentioned in that article. But we must not forget that, for the first time in many years, wages increased especially for low-wage earners, some 3,000. The new salary is only valid from 1 January 2013. Conclusions on how the wage reform has worked can be drawn at the end of the year. Of course, it is quite clear that we cannot call the whole situation satisfactory yet; the aim is to move forward at all times in the area of internal security. But we can only do this if the country has the means to do so. I hope that we will also have the means to do this in 2014, because compared to others, Estonia has come out much better than the economic crisis. As a result, we have been able to raise salaries this year. It has not been possible to do so in most Eastern and Central European countries, as well as in highly developed European countries. There are countries where wages are frozen and there are countries where public budgets have been cut. Of course, it is right to compare ourselves, above all, with the other Eastern and Central European countries. We were here last Monday discussing the situation in Britain. Of course, it would be very good if we had the basis to compare Estonia with Britain. Unfortunately, it's arbitrary. We have not had the opportunity to gather wealth as an independent state in the 20th century; within half a century, our society was basically devastated. This devastation has meant that the wealth of our land and nation has been destroyed. We've basically started from scratch in 1991. And in 20 years, we have reached a point where we can look boldly at our destiny mates among the countries of Eastern and Central Europe. We hope that our opportunities for a smart redistribution of the wealth collected by the taxpayer will not disappear in the coming years. And we are going to do everything we can to contribute to people through internal regulations within the Ministry of the Interior. What do I mean by that? For example, in 2013, we are dealing with two important projects. The first one focuses on simplifying the misdemeanour procedure, which the draft has already passed the first reading in Parliament. We are trying to cut red tape for certain offenders. We are talking about a misdemeanor procedure, which is obviously time-consuming and too long, takes 40 to 45 minutes. There are nearly 200,000 of these offences per year. We're spending public money, and we're wasting citizen time. We propose amendments to simplify the misdemeanour procedure and channel taxpayers' money into the core business, including improving the motivation of those who guarantee security. The second project is the launch of an e-field procedure this year. This means that we will speed up the e-field procedure, cut red tape, take a resource from one place and direct it to the main activity. The services provided to citizens will be improved, and the motivation of those responsible for internal security, or police officers, will certainly be improved. There are more and more such projects, innovative solutions, where we make use of technical tools. On the one hand, we can use taxpayers' money to do this, on the other hand, but, once again, I assure you, I have been working for two years to find internal opportunities within the Ministry of the Interior to channel funds to people in particular. I intend to continue to commit to this. We are trying to use the nearly EUR 290 million we have received even more thoughtfully than we have so far in order to better reward the work of people working for internal security, i.e. police officers, border guards and rescuers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U114	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U115	Dear Minister, I have a very simple question: how many seats are available at the PBA right now? We know the situation of the Eastern Prefecture, but the whole system?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U116	Dear questioner, that is a very good question! I'm not sure we have any static numbers that I can tell you today. The situation is changing, the risks of society are changing, and the population is relocated, for example, the number of inhabitants in the Northern Prefecture area is increasing. The number of crimes against property has fallen by 20% over the last three years, but there has certainly been an increased need to focus attention on, for example, close relationship violence, the detection of serious hidden crimes. All of this is a dynamic process. I have often found that one official or another speaks of some sort of permanent vacant posts that should be filled. I dare say we need a very thoughtful analysis. This analysis must be conducted within the Police and Border Guard Board in real time and on an ongoing basis, so that there are places where people are badly needed, as well as places where human power may be over. In this way, we can transfer resources within the Police and Border Guard Board with expertise and ensure good process management and well-considered organisation of work. The situation is not static. It is not the case that for years there has been a certain number of vacant posts. Where are these numbers supposed to come from? Where could you possibly get them? You don't have them either. I would like to stress that you had the right question. I also often ask about different areas of work. How do we know that this is the size of the staff to do one job or another? Some analyses and studies have sometimes been referred to since 2009 or 2010. Sorry, we're in 2013! The process is dynamic, just as the structure of crime changes, the organisation of law enforcement changes. We are also talking about the fact that the order in a particular community is ensured not only by the forces of the state, but also by the involvement of the community, the volunteers. Citizens themselves, such as the Neighborhood Watch, have a very significant role to play. So I can only answer your question with a view to one particular area of work at some point in time. I can't say the overall number. I'll give you an example of the rescue area. It was only in autumn 2011 that, as far as I know, a risk mapping based on an accurate analysis and verified arguments was carried out. For the first time in 20 years, a fundamental analysis was carried out on the basis of which restructuring of rescue teams was carried out by May last year. Why was this done? Because the risks have changed over these years, the risks have changed. People have been relocated, but there are risks with people. So we answer this question in real time and all the time. The same goes for the police. I very much hope that the new chief police officer and the entire police leadership will go into this issue very thoroughly. That the police will introduce an in-depth analysis, the results of which will also meet the expectations of the taxpayer. You ask, for example, how many regional patrols are needed in Estonia. That's a real question! But again, what's the starting point? Are we based on the view that we need constant district constable points all over Estonia, or is the approach risk-based? In my opinion, in such a small country and community-centred police work, there is only the right risk-based approach. The more detailed the risk analysis, the more flexible the reaction to the analysis of facts and other factors is, the better we can guarantee security in different parts of Estonia. In summary, I would say that this was a very good question, and I can assure you that I am constantly asking in my area of government. I have certainly also examined how much staff is needed for specific activities in the Eastern Prefecture and how this need will change over time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U117	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U118	Very nice, Mr Minister, that when you answered the previous question, you spoke first and foremost about people. At the same time, I think that raising wages is very nice, but other factors that make people want to do some work often play a role in life. That is why I have a question for you. Have you ever met people who leave the Police and Border Guard Board? Have you ever wanted to understand what's really going on in there? Why do people quit their jobs? I mean, it's the information we need to do the analysis and answer our question about why people are leaving the police.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U119	Thank you for your question. As I have already said, perhaps today it is no longer right to refer to trends prevailing in 2011 and 2012. It is only from the beginning of this year that we are talking for the first time about wage increases and wage reform over long years. We can only draw conclusions at the end of 2013. The Police and Border Guard Board will certainly also carry out internal investigations to find out the main reasons for the departures. Of course, I'll share that information with you. Why do I answer that? In particular, because the reasons for 2012 may be quite different from those of 2013. After all, we have taken steps this year to reduce the flow. In the course of this year, the reasons why people have decided to change jobs despite rising wages are likely to be most real. But once again, let's not forget that there are 5,500 employees at the Police and Border Guard Board, we can't look at them like one-faced people. And we're not faced with 5,500 police officers either, but there's a lot of different jobs. There are people who deal with so-called property, they are support workers; there are people who work in a high-risk position; there are people who work in a position where there is no increased risk, they do mainly office work; and there are people who serve citizens in service offices. Whenever it comes to a large organisation, it is important to consider the different lines of work in order to get an objective picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U120	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U121	Minister, thank you very much. Let me get this straight. You don't have an overview of the optimal number of employees at the Police and Border Guard Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U122	The number of staff, the number of staff on the various lines of work is changing. This is not possible in any other way. Let me give you an example. The e-outline procedure should run from summer this year to such plans. We have made great efforts since the beginning of last year to start implementing the e-field procedure in the summer of 2013. All Estonian patrols will be equipped with electronic devices, including electronic printers. It is possible that manually executed forms and protocols will disappear, the identity of the offender and the electronically drawn up protocol will be entered immediately into the procedural information system known as 'MIS'. That is not the case at the moment. At present, there are dozens of people entering misdemeanor protocols in the police headquarters into the information system. In my opinion, it is not normal for the 21st century to have people in office who will take the protocol drawn up by a police officer and start wearing this information system. It's part of the last century, it's not normal. Therefore, such staff is not normal either. Now we are directing these people, or the sums spent on their wages, and from the introduction of the e-field procedure, we are placing them in another basic process. In this way, we can provide citizens with more services or improve the motivation of other workers by raising their salaries. This is just one example. Of course, there are still such examples. We have different developments in work, we are introducing more and more information technology, optimising work processes and seeking a better understanding. That is why we cannot talk about optimal personnel. I would very much like the Police and Border Guard to be more prepared in this regard. But so far, in many areas of work, intense action is ongoing and there is still considerable room for improvement. Let me give you another example. This is the subject we talked about in this House years ago. I myself did so on several occasions on this platform already in 2006 in connection with a draft, when the speech was one necessary step against organised crime. We are talking about the ability to detect and confiscate proceeds of crime. When I took office in 2011, there were basically three police officers all over the country involved confiscating the proceeds of crime, plus one contact person in each precinct. I thought it was completely abnormal. While only three officials had focused on the proceeds of crime, it talked very poorly about the capacity developed over the years, although Parliament had already prioritised it in 2006 and 2007. In the meantime, however, the economic crisis came and this capacity was not developed. We have increased this staff at least three times; this year we will increase it even more. However, I do not dare to offer you an optimal number of people dealing directly with the proceeds of crime. It's only the first year this team's been working. We are now, as I have already said, three times the capacity to increase these people by over 20. This is a separate Crime Income Identification Office with specific staff and a specific salary resource. They carry out the detection, seizure and confiscation of proceeds of crime on a daily basis. This is also an example of how capacity can be increased in some priority areas, either by using the money received from the state budget for an additional application or by redeploying resources within the PBGB.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U123	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U124	Ladies and gentlemen, We've been talking to the Minister for the Interior on several Mondays, and I've been wondering what he'd like to talk about, you know, either cake or herring. Today I received an argumentated answer to my will. You know, I'm dreaming that we have an interior minister from the scene, a policeman who's a real cop, a person who understands, who doesn't spin, and who answers every question, because he knows what discipline is. You just have to answer. So far, our late-night conversations in this Chamber of the Riigikogu have ended with a single positive result. I have noticed in recent days that I have been greeted by police officers not only in Narva but also in Jõhvi, where I regularly go, and in Tallinn. Thank God we're being listened to! We're being listened to and watched. I began to receive letters and other visits from all over Estonia from Võrumaa, Valgamaa, Jõgevamaa. That's great! This means that it's not just me, not just you, not just us, maybe about ten people in this hall with our help. Let us listen and draw conclusions on what is happening here! Questions will be asked on some subject, but the discussion will be developed on some other, third, fourth and fifth subject. Only not to answer the questions of inquiry. I would like to mention, for example, the fact that a large number of strong young men left the West Prefecture at the same time who went off as long - distance drivers. Who in this hall heard the question or the answer to it? There is, in my opinion, a very interesting question in the question of questioning. 'As mentioned above, there are barely more than 4300 uniforms in an organisation with nearly 6,000 employees. What is the critical border of the Police and Border Guard Board, below which do you think Estonian internal security would seriously suffer? " We didn't even hear the answer to that question. At the same time, we have heard once again that is fantastic, especially after the President said that we have been living in a re-independenced Estonia for over 20 years, blaming the former state for all our troubles will help to ensure that there is someone else, not the government, not the Minister of the Interior, but his partners in the government, who are responsible for the low wages and opportunities of the police. It's someone else's fault again. It's a strange day, and for some reason, I always remember monkey stories. You know how in Africa, where there's something growing in the field and where the baboon pack comes to loot, they get rid of them? They're not afraid of people, they're not afraid of guns, but they're afraid of anything weird. To get rid of them, it takes a monkey to catch it, paint it with orange paint over it's called the orange baboon method, hang him in the neck with some jars and saucers to make them cluck, and let him go. This monkey goes to his own, and they see the creep who's getting close to them. They'll make a run for it, and soon there won't be any. The exact same trick is used once in this Chamber, once in another minister. Today we were honoured to hear another story of fear that someone who has long died, who no longer exists politically, was responsible for all our problems. The Soviet Union, which has not been in place for a long time, is responsible for the fact that the prices of heat and electricity have risen in the last two or three years, that our inflation is high and that unemployment in Estonia has increased to 137000 people in 2009 and 2010. The Soviet Union is responsible for tens of thousands of people leaving the country and for closing down about 200 schools in the next two years. Someone else is guilty. They have nothing to do with it. If they do, they'll do it all right, beautifully. They raise wages. What would you have done if you hadn't raised the police this year? Inflation over the last three years has already cut its real purchasing power by 20%. Do you think there's any way to get over the fact that the police have started leaving and working as long-distance drivers? There's gonna be another Monday, another question, another chance to write something, a quote. There's this rhetorical question that it's interesting what the press grabs. Last time, he grabbed the idea that everything on the eastern border in Ida-Virumaa was disloyal, that there wasn't much to pay to fight the influence of Russian television. This is what the person who now told us about the new possibilities for drafting documents. He doesn't know what the Internet is; he doesn't know that Russian TV channels are available everywhere in Estonia. Somehow on the eastern border they affect people, in Tallinn they do not affect, in Tartu, even less in Saaremaa. So another Monday, another comedy show, another series. See you later, ladies and gentlemen, next week on Monday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U125	Thank you. I ask the Minister of the Interior of the Riigikogu Chair Ken-Marti Vaheri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U126	Such relics of demagoguery and arbitraryness have not been heard for quite some time, as Mikhail Stalnukhin reported using the currently known record. The old record was put on again and the words were ripped out of different contexts. It's pretty amazing! I was quite clear on the question of police officers. It's sad when a respected inquisitor wasn't in the hall in the meantime and he didn't hear it. I will then repeat the answer to the question concerning what happened at the Western Prefecture. You indicated that a large number of strong young men have left the West Prefecture, and you asked how we would hold on to people if not on wages. The wage increase concerning the Western Prefecture is one of the most significant. The wages of the district constables in this precinct increased by around 15%. As you did last Monday, if I remember correctly, in your reply, the pay of the Lihula district constable rose by 23%. And you say that this question has not been answered! With regard to how to hold on to people, of course, with pay. The entire wage increase is aimed at this, and the Western Prefecture is one of those that has been significantly supported in terms of wages. I think that in this way we could motivate these strong young men not to go away to other specialties but to remain policemen. As far as all this guilt is concerned, who is responsible for one or the other, it is political demagoguery and there is no point in stopping at length. I can only repeat our very clear and simple principles, which some people find difficult to understand. We can spend as much as we earn as we have income. The countries that have spent more are now on their hands. Thank God we're not in this position! We are in a position to improve the motivation of people by raising their wages this year, and also in the area of internal security. I never said it was someone's special favor. I think this is the result of the great effort and patience of the Estonian people. This is certainly also the result of the fact that Estonian society has supported a policy whose fundamental principle is a balanced budget, the knowledge that we can spend as much as we earn as a society, and not more. It is the result that we have pursued a conservative monetary policy and that we have taken advantage of the opportunities that we have thanks to taxpayers in different areas in a common sense. In my opinion, Estonia has been a relatively responsible country. There is room for improvement in a large number of areas, there is no doubt about it. This space for development is precisely 50 years of occupation. I don't think you, Mr. Heir, want to admit in any way or realize that these 50 years have been torn away from our people. I think we were a very wealthy nation before World War II. We could very much compare ourselves to our good northern neighbour Finland, but now our difference is significant. It takes a lot of effort to catch up with them. I hope that society will continue to support the principles that have brought us success so far. For my part, however, I repeat that we certainly stand up for people who work in the field of internal security. They've done a very good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U127	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The last question has also been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U128	Good fellows! Now, after my hammer strike, please register with those members of the Riigikogu who wish to speak in a free microphone! Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U129	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, On Mondays, it is a good opportunity that the last word remains for the members of the Riigikogu, not for ministers, as it is in Question Time and usually when they stand on this board. We understand perfectly well the principle that we cannot waste more money than you have earned. But who says you've earned well? Who dares say that? Is there any reason to say that when you look at Estonian Air, when you look at our railways, when you look at our ports? Can we confirm that the policy they have pursued has been correct? Darlings, during January and February this year the port of Ust-Luga has increased the tonnage of goods passing through it 1.9 times. That's 8.5 million tons in two months. If you are interested in Estonia's transit, please be good and see what is happening near Estonia! Do you know that the Port of Ust-Luga, which was formally built in 1992, did not do anything for 15 years, all construction work started in 2007? We are now paying for the then provocations of the Ansip government with our sweat and blood, with our people. The ducks are writing letters to the Russian Minister of Transport asking us to give us coal so we can have some kind of transit. That's just how it sounds. No, I won't! At the end of last year, the third coal terminal was opened right there in Ust-Luga. This is about everything that's going on here. You don't know how to make money, and the chance to peel your people, is the last thing they have to do with excise duties, VAT, price increases in every area. This government can only raise prices and does not intend to fight it, because the higher the price, the higher the value added tax and the more it will receive in the state budget, which they will then share. So it's pure demagoguery, you can't spend more than we earn. You don't earn anything! That is not what you have been told, colleagues, that is what has been said to Mr Vaher, who has left here, and to his colleagues in the government. I had something else. This eternal comparison: where we were in 1939 and then those 50 years. Still the comparison with Finland! I don't think the media know that Finland fought back. Finland fought and won at least morally, but also practically. He lost a few hundred square kilometers, but he won. How can you compare yourself to them? We're actually heading for a real police state where only one person's opinion costs. We are a demoralised country that gave up and did not resist. How can we be compared to a country where an entire nation came out and resisted? So, darlings, it's not that simple! Speaking of these 50 years, you have to remember railroads, power stations and ports. It must be remembered that half a thousand schools were built at the time and many of them were built in cities. I'm sorry the Minister left, but I hope next Monday we have the opportunity to continue the dialogue with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-25_U130	Thank you. There's no more calls. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 19.01.
