ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the 10th working week Tuesday session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, does anyone have any drafts and inquiries to hand over? There are no drafts and no referrals.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U2	Let us now hear the President of the Republic's political statement. Based on § 155 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, the President of the Republic wishes to make a political statement. This time it will last ten minutes, and according to § 155 of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu and the President of the Republic agreed that no questions will be asked to the rapporteur. Following a statement by the President of the Republic, negotiations will be opened during which representatives of the political groups may speak. Mr President, I would like to ask you to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U3	Respectable legislator Riigikogu! I stand before you today to honour the public promise made on 21 November last year. I gave it to a meeting in Kadriorg's Riigikogu, where representatives of the civil society, politicians of parliamentary parties and knowledge of constitutional law agreed to launch the process of collective creation, which was later named the People's Assembly. The aim of the joint creation process was to gather ideas to boost political competition, give the voter more weight, participate in policy-making during inter-election times, prevent forced partyisation and make political party funding fairer. I called on everyone to think about these issues, to submit their proposals and opinions by e-mail and by letter, in private and public debates. Now this road has been completed, ideas have been collected and systematized from all references. They have been discussed several times and are equipped with impact analysis. The representative sample of the Estonian population gathered on Saturday for the day of the debate and announced its considered preferences. I am standing here to pass on the result of the joint creation process to Parliament, because, as has been repeatedly emphasised, only the Riigikogu decides whether these proposals become laws. I would like to thank everyone who participated in this work, especially the people of Estonia, who showed interest and willingness to participate in social affairs! I congratulate the society which has shown that it is capable of providing solutions quickly and well. I am pleased that in the joint process, political parties worked honestly with the rest of the society. All of this gives hope that at least the part of Estonia's concerns relating to political competition will be resolved in the near future. It is true that the whole process of co-creation, as well as the form and content of Saturday's day of debate, have received mixed assessments. I repeat once again: the Riigikogu is not an alternative, a decision-making body opposite or competing with the Riigikogu. This is an additional opportunity in our developing and seeking new solutions in a democratic country to give the common concepts 'participation' and 'inclusion' the real content. The results of the work of the Riigikogu are viewed in different ways. For many, it is too little, and it has come too late or, on the contrary, it is too much and it has come too soon. But all of this deserves, in my opinion, a thorough and open debate, both in Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in the political groups and in this large Chamber. After all, the Riigikogu was born because many active Estonian citizens believe that the parliament and the political parties represented in it have been too slow to understand the nature and extent of changes in society, that our party system is too encircled and that the laws governing it prefer existing large and established parties, that entering the political landscape is too difficult for new entrants, both financially and because of other thresholds, that citizens lack the opportunities to participate in the process of essentially and actually political decision-making, that the relationship between the outcome of the elections and the money spent on the campaign is too direct. In order to understand the work of the Riigikogu, it is useful to familiarise yourself with the work of an outstanding scientist at Stanford University, James Fishkin, which, among other things, confirms that this method, which has just been used by the Riigikogu, is much more accurate and meaningful than any public opinion poll. We also saw that there is no common will of the people, the only truth and the unfailingly right path, with politicians who want cheap popularity showing off. People are made up of people. Our people, the same people who have Estonia on their shoulders, are smart and also different. It is only in a joint debate that it is possible to explain what differences and what kind of joint opinions are. Nobody thinks or knows for everyone alone. Dear Members, Estonia has often been set an example, as we were able to respond flexibly and quickly, with some estimates as well as exemplaryly to changes in the world economy and our financial opportunities. I recall that rather radical budget cuts have been made in rare domestic policy cooperation. I have also repeatedly recognised the Riigikogu for this. And now I ask: how does reconciliation with sobering realities in fiscal policy differ from the fact that we have to take into account the public's desire to stimulate political competition and to expand opportunities for participation in politics during the inter-election period? Is it because economic decisions were imposed on us by the harsh reality that surrounds us and, in many ways, is independent of us? Why can't we ourselves, externally forced from time to time, critically assess what we have done and change laws that do not meet changed times and increased expectations? This does not mean that once upon a time something wrong has been done by drafting and adopting laws. Both the level of bail imposed on the candidates of the Riigikogu, the electoral threshold and the number of members required for the establishment of a party have been subject to entirely valid arguments, but now perhaps it is time to discuss all this again, reconsider the arguments for and against it and make a decision that meets our current needs and expectations of society. Respectable Riigikogu, perhaps at the end of the most important. We know that this is not about the community, but about the atmosphere and mood around us. We can argue and rationally prove that, according to very many objective indicators, Estonia has never been as good as today, yet the functioning of one state and society is not merely a matter of mathematics or economics. Effective representative democracy works when the people's dissatisfaction and proposals are also taken into account in the inter-election period, when Parliament is considered to be its own and a collection of people of its own kind, when the citizen really sees the ambassador primarily as his own representative, but not as a member of the party who is a member of the union of power or of the opposition. Maive Rute, from the European Commission's Directorate-General for Research, is currently in Harvard, has recently pointed out that all successful countries are reaching a certain crisis when they become sufficiently prosperous. Expectations change, people's primary needs have been resolved, so the existing one is no longer satisfied, even if it is unprecedented wealth. In some countries, such as South Korea and Taiwan, this led to a revolution, while in Chile and Spain it led to a fundamental change in values. This limit of gross domestic product of about $15,000 per capita was reached in Estonia in 2012. I agree with Maive Rute if he claims that we are now experiencing a major change in values. Some of the things that brought votes in the elections five and ten years ago are now received with a smiling smile, and especially among those whom we consider our future to be a pledge among the broad-minded and much-taught young people. Estonian society requires open debate; it wants to be a real and substantive player in this process. I sincerely ask you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, to take the proposals of the Riigikogu seriously. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Riigikogu! Do you want to open negotiations? A word or a speech? Please, Andrei Korobeinik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U5	Honourable President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The history of participatory democracy is quite long. In the central square of Athens, decisions were made by the citizens themselves. There were no mediators and politicians, every man got a vote. Things were more complicated with women. Many believe that this was real democracy, or popular power. At the same time, there is also the belief that it was participatory democracy that became fatal for the Greeks. In a small town, it worked well, but a rapidly growing empire collapsed because of communication problems. The people could wisely decide where a new market could be opened, but people could not do so well with foreign policy strategies or tax problems, for example. Many citizens were unable to sacrifice short-term benefits for a strategic victory. In recent months, I had a unique opportunity to participate in the process of the Riigikogu, both as a member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu and together with the organisers, thinking along with them. The population proved that the people wanted and could play a part in policy-making. The risks associated with participatory democracy did not materialise. Populistic ideas did not receive support, and the work of the Riigikogu results in a high-quality and balanced input to Parliament. Not all proposals may receive support in this Chamber, but all the issues raised by the participants in the House deserve a comprehensive debate, which has already begun. However, the future of participatory democracy in Estonia is more important than the concrete proposals of the population. The Riigikogu proved that the current technical instruments of participatory democracy in Estonia are not effective enough. People want to have a say in politics, but they feel that they do not have that chance. Portals Today I decide Mina and osa.ee have not filled this niche for many reasons. Very few know that interest groups are involved in drafting almost every draft law in the Riigikogu and in ministries. We learned that 95% of the participants support the discussion of popular initiatives in the Riigikogu, but the collection of 25000 signatures is offered for this purpose. It seems to me that 100 times the number of signatures would be enough. I would point out that only 18 proposals received more than 200 votes of support in the population's own online environment, while the others received less. I believe that a petition with 200 signatures could also reach the committees of the Riigikogu, which would deal with these petitions in public sessions. It would be the natural development of the idea of the public assembly, the creation of a channel of participatory democracy that would operate continuously, not just in a one-time experiment. I hope that this idea will be supported in this Chamber. Of course, the Riigikogu must continue to engage normally, as has been done so far. It is self-evident that stakeholders are asked for feedback and their representatives are invited to the meetings of the Riigikogu Committee. You don't have to collect signatures for that. Every voter can also turn to his or her ambassador and ask him or her to initiate a bill. Collecting signatures under petitions would rather be an emergency exit, like on an airplane: you don't have to use it, but the last option is still helpful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U6	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Some time ago, the representatives of a party in this Chamber seriously argued that, in order for us politicians to be able to deal with the problems of children and families with children, children must be given the right to vote, whether directly or indirectly. I dare say no, it won't. We have the right to deal with these problems within the framework of current laws, in accordance with the expectations of the people and the needs of society. In fact, it can be said that the same is true of the initiatives of most of the population. More important than changing the laws governing policy making and political decision-making is perhaps the understanding of what were the causes of social dissatisfaction that led to the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu being convened. The main reason was the decline of political culture, which took place not because of any legislative changes, but within the current legislative framework. Yes, we must very seriously discuss all the initiatives that have come before us from the public assembly. I, too, was pleasantly surprised that there was no populism in these proposals. Indeed, it is very important to understand current social processes and bubbles and to make corrections in political culture, political behaviour. One of the most important proposals in this package of proposals by the People's Assembly is to cut money on political decisions, both by making the funding of political parties fairer, more transparent and more equal, as well as by reducing the volume of electoral campaigns. As has been said a lot about this remote control, there is a regrettable correlation between the money spent in election campaigns and the result achieved in elections. It is also about equalising the political playing field. We know that there have been as few parties as there have been in Parliament since the restoration of Estonia's independence. This consolidation of the policy landscape has long been a goal for us, and I dare say that in the early 1990s, in the first half of the 1990s, this objective was the right one. Now it seems that this process has gone too far and hinders the possibility for political parties outside the parliament to return here in some elections, as well as the possibility for quite new entrants to reach out to decision-makers. We can say with absolute certainty that the natural threshold for political and parliamentary entry has risen considerably over these years. Existing large parties have considerable luggage and structure, which is difficult to compete with, even if administrative thresholds are lowered. Figuratively speaking, if we lower or lower the standard of qualification, the sprinter can run 100 meters to the Olympics, it does not necessarily make it easier for him to get on the podium. So we certainly need to analyse these proposals very seriously, which are recommending a reduction in money power in politics, as well as an equalisation of the political playing field for the existing political forces, whether quite new or re-emerging into politics. I think it is in the interest of a free pluralistic debate on democracy in Estonia. Also, the part of the proposals concerning the involvement of the public, interest groups, society, civil society in political decision-making and decision-making in inter-election times is certainly worth reviewing at the level of the legislators, but, according to my personal deep conviction, this is, above all, a matter of political culture and of the internal culture of all of us. I wish us the strength to discuss the proposals of the people's assembly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U8	Thank you. Any more calls? There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Let's move on to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U9	I'll give you a few messages. On Wednesday, 10 April, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Culture Rein Lang and Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Education and Research Jaak Aavikkogu. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 84 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present; no 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U10	Let's go to today's agenda. The Protocol on the concerns of the Irish people on the draft ratification act 390, initiated by the Government of the Republic, on the Treaty on European Union and on the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, begins its first reading with regard to the Treaty of Lisbon. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U11	Good morning. I propose that the Riigikogu go from the concerns of the Estonian people to the concerns of the Irish people for a moment. In particular, the Government has presented to Parliament the Protocol on the concerns of the Irish people concerning the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, which is annexed to the Treaty on European Union and to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The purpose of this draft is to ratify this protocol, which Estonia has signed on 16 May of last year. This Protocol will be annexed to the Treaties on European Union in response to the concerns of the Irish people regarding the Treaty of Lisbon, as expressed in the approval of the Treaty of Lisbon. As we know, the reason why the Treaty of Lisbon was rejected in Ireland in the first referendum was the concern of the Irish people as to whether certain principles laid down in the Irish Constitution would continue to apply after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon. The Protocol, which is before you, reaffirms the continuing respect and validity of the principles that have been established in the Irish Constitution and in the Treaties on which the European Union is founded. This protocol must, in particular, explain the interpretation of the Treaty of Lisbon in relation to Ireland. Following the Irish referendum, the European Council discussed the situation and the possibilities for resolving the problems raised by Ireland for the first time in December 2008. At the June 2009 Council, Member States agreed on the provision of guarantees to Ireland that would confirm the continued application of Irish constitutional principles in different areas. With the inclusion of this protocol in the Treaties on the European Union, the approval of the Treaty of Lisbon in the second referendum held in Ireland on 2 October 2009 is also to be remembered. This Protocol must be ratified by all Member States in accordance with the agreement, while complying with the constitutional requirements of the States, as it amends the Treaties on the European Union, as well as the ratification requirement laid down in Article 4 of the Protocol. To date, six Member States have ratified this protocol: Ireland, Austria, the Netherlands, Slovenia, Slovakia and Lithuania. In many countries the ratification process is ongoing. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U12	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U13	Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! What happens if a Member State fails to ratify this protocol?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U14	First of all, I hope that doesn't happen. However, if it does, this protocol cannot enter into force and, theoretically, it could be said that the promise given to Ireland by the leaders of other European Union countries has been broken.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U15	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U16	Honourable waitress! The Estonian people also have many concerns, such as holes in Tallinn asphalt, secret alcohol, rising electricity prices. What should we do to ensure that the European Union also writes the concerns of the Estonian people on a separate paper?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U17	This is possible, and the various concerns of the Estonian people have been recorded, accounted for and tried to help solve them by the European Union during various times. This was the last example of the approval of the European Union's new financial perspective, thanks to which quite a number of the concerns of the Estonian people will hopefully at least be alleviated within the next financial perspective. So if there's a problem, you have to write them down. We will be heard when they are clearly recorded.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U18	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U19	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft 390 was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 25 March this year. Also invited were Marika Linnetam, Director of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the European Union Law Bureau, and Vilver Oras, a lawyer of the same Ministry. They explained to the Commission the background, procedure and possible effect of the draft. The members of the Commission asked a number of questions and expressed their views. After the debate, it was unanimously decided that the draft would be submitted to first reading on 9 April, i.e. today, it would be proposed to close the first reading and to allow the usual ten days, i.e. until 23 April, for amendments to be tabled, and to appoint a rapporteur from the Commission here. I will say so much in addition to the explanations given by the Minister that the Treaty of Lisbon was opened for signature in 2007. Due to the constitutional procedures of its country, Ireland put this Treaty to a referendum in which it was rejected by the people. In order to alleviate people's concerns, the Irish people were offered the possibility that the relevant protocol confirms that the fundamental values of the Irish constitution and statehood will be protected even after the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon. It may not be a question of whether the path to such a protocol is the most sensible and sensible solution, but it is not our subject today. For us, the Act on ratification of the Protocol is a necessary procedural step under European Union law, which does not entail any additional obligations or rights for Estonia. It is therefore proposed to conclude the first reading of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U20	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U21	Honourable waitress! Today is such a strange or interesting day. Our President has just brought a letter of concern to the Riigikogu on behalf of the people, and the Riigikogu will discuss these proposals. How was that letter of concern born in Ireland? Did the people's assembly come together, make an appeal, and it was sent forward? Was this discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U22	No, from this point of view, we did not discuss this issue. I repeat that the Treaty, the Treaty of Lisbon, was in a referendum in Ireland, and the Irish people as a whole, not their national assembly, had to decide what to do with the Treaty. They rejected it. It was about the highest values for the Irish people, such as the right to life, the neutrality of the state and other fundamental values. In our people's assembly, the topics of the debate were of a different look and belonged to a lower level, but there is some resemblance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U23	Please, Arto Aas, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U24	Did the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also discuss the need to draw up a new Treaty for the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U25	No, it wasn't under that point. But we have said that the European Union is a developing organism and that the current contractual structure obviously needs to be further developed. There should be better agreement on what the European Union is doing and what its Member States, the countries that have created the European Union, are doing. The division of competences should be more precise. This has been a debate, but at a very general level. We haven't gone into the details.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U26	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Rait Maruse! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal was to finish its first reading of Bill 390. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. April 23, 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U27	Let's get to the next item. The second reading of Bill 349 of the Act on Insurance Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws begins. I would like a presentation by Lembit Kaljuvee, member of the Chair of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U28	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the amendment of the Insurance Activities Act and the related transmission of draft Act 349 to second reading on two occasions: 21 March and 26 March. On 21 March, the proposals relating to linguistic improvements were first discussed. This was followed by a longer and more serious debate. As the draft amends several laws in the financial sector, the Ministry of Finance also made proposals in this respect concerning the amendment of the Law on Investment Funds. Kristiina Kubja, Chief Specialist of the Insurance Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Janika Aigro, Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department, and Kilvar Kessler, Member of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, had been invited to this meeting. The Ministry wanted to make these changes quickly, but the Committee on Economic Affairs stated that this was not a matter in its field and it would be more appropriate to turn to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. By such decisions, the Commission meeting ended on 21 March. We accepted the linguistic amendments and called on the Committee on Monetary Affairs to give its opinion on the draft. On 26 March, when we discussed the second time that this bill was sent to this hall for second reading, we knew that the Finance Committee took on the proposals of the Ministry of Finance. In order to solve the problems raised, it was decided to draw up a new draft. On 26 March, we took the following decisions: We decided to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session today, 9 April, to propose that the second reading be closed and that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is closed today. There is also a proposal to adopt the draft as a law. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U29	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. There are two amendments to the draft, both of which have been proposed by the commission, whose proposal is to take them fully into account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 349. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U30	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Private Schools Act, initiated by the Committee on Culture. I would like a presentation by Paul-Eerik Rummo, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U31	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! The first reading of this draft was, I remember, on 19 February in this Chamber. No amendments were received by the deadline, although the Committee on Culture itself considered it necessary to clarify the text of the draft in a technical manner. At the Commission meeting on 25 March, it was decided to propose that the second reading be put on the agenda on 9 April and that the second reading be closed. The two amendments you will see have been prepared by the Committee on Culture itself. We made them for the purpose of making both points of the draft law legally unambiguous and more precise. This is also because, at first reading, it was pointed out in this Chamber that private schools, which are covered by this bill, do not have collections of care. Their decision-making body would be referred to as the Council and, therefore, the reference to the existing basic school and upper secondary school law could have proved inaccurate if, in the case of private schools, such collections of care had been mentioned as an applicant for the second language of instruction. So you can see here the clarification of § 15 (11). Point 2 of the draft law makes the wording of § 25 of the Private Schools Act unambiguous and precise. These amendments do not entail any substantive changes to the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U32	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Paul-Eerik Rummo! Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Both are made by the Committee on Culture. Amendment 1, the proposal of the commission is to take this fully into account. Amendment 2, the proposal of the commission is to take full account of this. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 343. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U33	Today's next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the National Pension Insurance Act and the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the member of the Riigikogu, Marika Tuus-Lauli!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U34	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, In February 2009, a law came into force whereby the government ended the free return home of pensions and disability benefits at the expense of the State. Only a small group of people with disabilities and people living in a sparsely populated area were left with this service. This was one of the first cuts to be made on 22 October 2008. It was about the time Prime Minister Andrus Ansip said that there could be a crisis like this. The innovation concerned about 70,000 pensioners at the time. The state saved about 26 million kroons in the 11 months of 2009, or 1.66 million euros in today's currency. Today we see that the government's desire to save on postal services has been set back primarily to land pensioners and people with disabilities, as well as to the elderly and disabled people living in cities who are unable to go after the money themselves. Of course, most pensioners do not need free home delivery, the problem concerns about 32,000 people. About 370000 people have their pension or allowance transferred to a bank account. The Group of the Estonian Central Party now wants to come to the aid of a few tens of thousands of people who are forced to pay quite a large amount of money to the Estonian Post each month in order to receive their pension money. We want to help you get your pension money earned over many years of work by post at the expense of the state, also for those who are forced to allow their pension money to be transferred to another person's account in great trouble. Feedback from the land pensioners shows that it is urgently needed; the restructuring has still caused a great deal of concern and unpleasantness to the people. Savings at the expense of the weakest and most helpless who have contributed to all of us today is cynical and unethical. Besides, the big, almost 15% economic collapse has been over a long time ago, after all, the economy is growing again. Now is the time to reverse the painful cuts. I would also like to recall that the amendmenters of the law stressed at that time in this Chamber that this decision was initially only taken for a year and will be re-examined in the future. It hasn't been done. We're giving you a chance now. The aim of the draft is to improve the livelihood of the elderly and disabled, to restore the money for pensions and social benefits for disabled people to those who cannot cope free of charge. In his time, this topic was discussed very much in this Chamber. I remember that the Central Party Group and the People's Union fought very consistently against the cessation of free home delivery of pensions. Pay-per-view, by the way, is very expensive for old people. When this change was made, the fee for the year was 720 kroons, or 46 euros in current currency. Now, of course, prices have increased very much. Compared to the first quarter of 2009, home delivery has increased by almost 13%. In January this year, Eesti Post increased prices again, bringing the pension home costs 4.88 euros a month instead of 4.60 euros. Thus, pensioners have to pay about 60 euros for returning their pension home. The people who have to give up 4.88 euros each month to the Estonian Post in order to receive their earned pension money do not, of course, do it out of great happiness that the money is going to be left over, but are still forced by circumstances, because there is no other way. It's a forced solution, it's a force shot. We believe that this must be seen as a deliberate reduction in pensions. Among other things, it also expresses unequal treatment of a part of people who do not have to pay for this service and receive pension money at the expense of the state. Free home delivery is granted only to a few people with disabilities, only to persons with deep disabilities, disabled workers with reduced mobility, and part of the population living in a distributed area. The problem is acute in rural areas. As a vigilante, I have been repeatedly approached with this concern. At the same time, it is a marginal amount from the state budget point of view; rather, it is a question of attitudes towards weaker ones. There are very few ATMs on Earth, as you know. They have been continuously liquidated and post offices have been shut down massively. For money to be received and transactions to be made, you have to go to a larger centre. But rural areas are not evenly covered by public transport, many villages are not reached by bus. People can't rumble on a bus in long winters and slippery roads; many do not orient themselves in current driving arrangements; many are not capable of doing so. There have been cases where a bedridden person, an elderly person, has been denied free return and is forced to pay his pension, for example, to a neighbor's wife. Then who wants it? A lot of people who aren't bedridden and can handle their homework, but they don't risk getting out of the gate much anymore. Somehow, the most likely person is to go to a shop car while it's still in progress, but it's not possible to drive far away. I guess there are other problems here. After all, not every pensioner from an ATM, if any, can manage to withdraw money. The old man hasn't slept before nights. Many, who are affected by this problem, do not have a deep disability in their pockets of evidence of obstacles to movement, and many are very reluctant to pass through this whole bureaucratic machine. Now maybe the most important thing. The fact that the receipt of your pension or grant is in trouble is best illustrated by the fact that 21423 people were in the same situation as in the six months of the previous year, and the fact that circumstances forced them to transfer their pension to a foreign person's account. Twenty-one and a half thousand people have their pension money transferred to another person's account! Plus those who are abroad, but that's got nothing to do with this right now. When pensions were returned home free of charge when necessary, there were hardly any transferers to another person's account. Which one of us wants our money transferred to someone else's account? Whether it's a relative or a neighbor, or a child or grandson, none of us would want that. That the parish clerk takes out the money, that they're practically no longer using it at all. None of us want someone else in our wallet to go through. It's also very dangerous. What if that other person dies? There are other problems. How much has happened to drunken children stealing their mother or father! I don't want to touch these cases here, but they're painful stories. We often hear old people being kidnapped and deprived of food money on retirement day. There's a bunch of thugs out there watching old people take their money out. If our bill was adopted as a law, it would cost about EUR 157000. There are 10,800 people who pay for their home delivery. We also include those who allow their pension to be transferred to another person's bank account, i.e. about 21,500 people, with a total of about 32,000. Let's add a little bit more, about EUR 200,000 would cost the budget. According to the draft law, this law would be in force in January next year. Another nuance: the state's income from the cessation of the return on pensions has been small, but the banks who have gained more in these five years have won, listen! .162401 was a new customer. So pensioners and people with disabilities have also become a source of wealth for banks. I think that the state should not, by law, create opportunities to feed banks and the state company Eesti Post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U35	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Marika Tuus-Laul. I would like to ask for a co-presentation of the Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U36	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting. Our waitress was Marika Tuus-Laul. I was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. Ms Tuus-Laul presented the content of the draft. I am not going to repeat for a long time what he said, but Marika did not mention one aspect that we touched on in the sitting. The issue was the lack of ATMs. The Commission asked whether people in Estonia had the opportunity to withdraw cash from ATMs everywhere. We know very well that there is no such opportunity. The number of automatics is currently low and there will be even fewer in the future. The Commission also discussed that the return of pensions was cancelled for a year. A representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs claimed that people are used to the current regime, that there is no longer a need for such a service, and that there is an opportunity for those who need to return home. At the same time, the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs could not answer the question of how many people have been denied a free return request. The system is that a pensioner writes a statement that he or she would like a free return, and then he or she will be answered whether or not he or she can. People who get it for free are around 10,000, but the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs could not tell how many people had received a negative response. The question was a surprise for them. According to the initiators, the maximum cost to the state budget would be 2.4 million, but this could also be lower. The number of people whose money goes into another person's account is 25,000. And these are not all relatives, neighbors or other acquaintances; some are also legal persons, such as nursing homes or social welfare departments. The Ministry of Social Affairs, however, did not have any statistics on the proportion of natural and legal persons among these 25000 persons. We also discussed in the Commission that we have a significant proportion of pensioners whose pension is paid into their account abroad. The question was, how much is it going to cost? We have received the answer that this service is paid by the pensioner himself and that there are quite a number of these people. The whole discussion ended with 4 Commission members voting in favour of the completion of the first reading and 5 Commission members voting against, which means that the Commission decided by a majority not to support the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U37	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thanks a lot, Yana Toom! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the Steering Committee is to reject the 360 proposal at first reading. We must vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the leading committee to reject 360 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 45 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 27 against and no abstentions. The commission's proposal was supported, and bill 360 has fallen out of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U38	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like to ask for a chair of speech from Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will brief you briefly on the content of the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds and the current procedure in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. What and why do we need to amend the existing Investment Funds Act? Very briefly, the regulation of the process of winding up investment funds should be made clearer than is currently the case. The provisions of the existing law have proved inadequate in terms of investor protection, especially for closed funds. The amendment of the law must ensure that the Financial Supervision Authority can intervene if necessary, decide on the liquidation of the fund itself instead of the general meeting and also appoint the competent liquidators who can take over the management of the fund. To this end, the current Act amends two paragraphs. Paragraph 174 (2) extends the circle of decision-makers for the liquidation of a closed fund to the Financial Supervision Authority. The right of a general meeting to decide on the liquidation of a closed-ended fund is a legal distinction, and generally, the liquidation of an investment fund is decided either by the depositary in the form of a bank or by the management company's supervisory board. The need for a change is due to the fact that the general meeting of the unit-holders has the right to take a liquidation decision, but in practice, investors may not be able to cooperate in a closed fund and in that case the Financial Supervision Authority could help. Inability to cooperate, of course, is never a matter of praise, but for a large number of people, it is quite common. In a situation where a management company has been deprived of its licence, essentially bankrupt and the general meeting does not find a common language, investors may receive unequal treatment and serious damage purely because the pool of assets is in the air and it does not have a manager to decide whether or not to share the remaining assets between investors. The amendment to paragraph 184 (1) provides for more precise arrangements as to how the Financial Supervision Authority appoints liquidators and sets deadlines, the amendment to paragraph 3 specifies the determination of remuneration to the liquidator. The draft is also intended to give effect to the amendments on the day following that of their publication in the Official Journal of the State. The draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds was initiated in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 26 March, and on 28 March it was decided to put it on the plenary agenda on 9 April. With regard to the course of the debate, a longer debate on the draft was already held on 25 March, i.e. before it was initiated. Thomas Honourable, Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Janika Aigro, Chief Specialist of the same department, Kilvar Kessler, Member of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, and Andre Nõmm, Head of the Financial Services Supervision Division, then gave explanations on the amendment of the Act. The members of the Monetary Commission asked a number of points that would clarify the facts, for example why the role of the liquidator of the Financial Supervision Authority is not so far provided for in the law in the case of closed funds. In reply, it was said that it was logical for the general meeting to be able to decide whether to liquidate in all circumstances when drafting an earlier law. This need could not be foreseen. In practice, however, this has now come to light. It also asked what would happen if the draft law 408 was approved by the Riigikogu. If, for example, the general meeting decides to wind up, but the Financial Supervision Authority does not and there is a difference of opinion between them, how will it be done? The answer was that, between the first reading and the second reading, the circumstances in which such disagreements could arise in practice are specified. In summary, on 25 March, as I have already mentioned, it was decided to initiate a draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds. The decision was unanimous, as was the appointment of me as a waitress. A second meeting of the Commission to discuss the same draft took place yesterday, 8 April. Thomas the Honorable Head of Department of the Ministry of Finance was again present. Once again, it was examined that if the financial inspectorate were to be included in the circle of decision-makers for liquidation, how would the situation be resolved if one wanted and the other did not want to be eliminated? On this point, it was reiterated that the wording would be clarified between the two readings. On 8 April, the Commission unanimously decided to propose that the first reading of the draft be completed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 15 April. It is also worth mentioning that the Ministry of Finance has proposed to the Committee on Economic Affairs, as Mr Kaljuvee has already mentioned in the debate on the second item on the agenda, presenting the beginning of the birth story of this bill. Therefore, the draft has not undergone the normal round of coordination. The opinion is currently proposed to the Estonian Banking Association and the Estonian Fund Managers' Association. The answer should come from them today. That's all for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-09_U40	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Urve Tiidus. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 408. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 408 amendments. 15 April 2010 at 5 p.m. The agenda for today's sitting is exhausted. I wish everyone a beautiful day! See you later! Closure of the sitting at 11.07 a.m.
