ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the fifth Tuesday session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Due to the end of the term of office of Mart Laari, member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund, and in accordance with the Estonian Development Fund Act, the Economic Commission will initiate the draft decision of the Riigikogu to appoint a new member of the Supervisory Board of the Development Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U3	Thank you. Is there any further drafts or requests to be submitted? No, I don't. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 16 October, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Education and Research Jaak Aavikkogu. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 79 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 22.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U4	The first item is the presentation on the implementation of developments in legal policies. I will present to you the procedure for discussing this item. If you'd listen a little more attentively, I'd better do it. First of all, there is a report by the Minister of Justice, which lasts up to 20 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. This will be followed by negotiations involving only the representatives of the political groups. After the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. I would like to present the speech chair to Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Minister of Justice will be able to go to Parliament once a year and talk about how progress has been made in implementing developments in legal policy. These developments were known to have been adopted by the previous composition of the Riigikogu, and the Minister of Justice was thus obliged to give an overview of their implementation in the Riigikogu every year. It is worth recalling that last year, Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice, introduced to you mainly what was planned and taking place during the first year of implementation of developments. Today, I am pleased to see that, alongside the plans, we can also talk more about the results. We have reached the point that internationally recognised principles of better regulation have been regulated and used in Estonia. The tools necessary for the work are there and we have gradually implemented them. The first fruits of the work are beginning to reach your desks. First of all, I will give you an overview of the activities of the government that improve our day-to-day legislation. This means that I will give an overview of the evolution of legal policy, concrete actions, figures and, of course, a little bit of the future. Another major issue is our international legislative work and all that concerns improving regulation from the perspective of individuals, businesses and specific stakeholders. So, first of all, I am talking about the principles of good lawmaking as a prerequisite for the development of legal policies and the internal development of legislation. 2012 and 2013 have meant years of transition in the implementation of the principles of good lawmaking for the government. When legislative policy developments were adopted in 2011 and documents and legislation governed by the principles of better regulation were prepared, we can now say that all the planned documents have been prepared and the legislation has been adopted. An important document has been put in place, such as the code of good regulation and regulation, good practice on inclusion has been updated and the methodology for assessing impacts has been approved by the government. They were gradually implemented in early 2012. Although these requirements have been implemented so far for about a quarter of the legislation, as we originally planned, we will be able to take stock of how implementation has succeeded in early 2014 and assess whether changes should be considered. I will now stop in more detail on some of the amendments mentioned and on the current state of regulatory quality. The standard technical manual of the government and the Riigikogu for officials has just been completed and published online. We did so because, for years now, legislative officials have lacked a modern and illustrated handbook. The new handbook will meet these expectations. The explanations are based on the executive edition of the Constitution, the laws, the Supreme Court decisions and practice based on the traditions of Estonian legislation. Since the handbook has been drawn up in cooperation between the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, the Ministry of Justice and the Chancellery of the State, it has great practical value in shaping the same practice and helps to create high-quality legislation. Of course, we will continue to look at how to update it in cooperation. Good practice on inclusion was updated in 2011, but so far there was no link with impact assessment. One integral part of the impact assessment is the identification of the target group. This means that if an impact is identified for some target groups, it is advisable to involve this target group in the work. So far, we are used to being mainly passively involved, which means that materials are made publicly available. However, there is an increasing degree of active involvement, which is that the target group for change is directly addressed. The Ministry of Justice has also dealt with active involvement. One example is the debate on the draft proposal on hate crimes and incitement to hatred in a number of round tables. The draft proposal, prepared to fulfil international obligations, gave rise to a number of doubts and proposals, and their discussion with stakeholders developed into a developing debate. However, it should be noted that stakeholders' perceptions of how the penalty provision must be formulated and included have been quite contradictory. In general, it can be said that inclusion is certainly more active than in the past, but IT solutions that guarantee it could support inclusion in a more convenient and understandable way. We consider it important to have a better view of the opportunities for participation, and here we still have much room for improvement. One example is the codification projects carried out by the Ministry of Justice, where, as part of the codification of construction and planning rights and intellectual property rights, a separate blog is kept on the website of the Ministry of Justice, for example. There you will find all the relevant information and documents and opinions. When it comes to topical issues of inclusion, ministries often involve too late, when the draft is already ready. While activities are planned, they are not detailed enough and often do not think that it may take more time for those involved to gather their thoughts. It is also uneven to give feedback to the persons involved. Both the official written form and the informal form are used because, as you know, the persons involved often come back to the Riigikogu to stand up for their interests, which of course is right, but the opinion that was previously fixed and described in more detail could save time. A number of plans have been made in the government to develop draft laws in accordance with the new regime. In 2012, 14 of them were made and this year, hopefully, this figure will be slightly higher, and now 13 of them have already been drawn up. Although at first it seemed to the ministries that this was a time-consuming additional task, it is now generally understood that it is often useful to discuss key issues at an early stage. That is the point of the intention to develop. The ministries have coordinated most of the planned development, but only some have been left uncoordinated. This means that a number of problems will be solved before the bill is written. In those cases where some ministries did not coordinate the development plan, the problem was found to require a more comprehensive review and impact assessment. This is precisely one of the objectives of the intention to develop: not to spend time resolving disagreements when the Ministry has already done a lot of work and drafts, but to identify differences early and develop a common position on solutions. I bring here, for example, a case from the Ministry of Justice's country of work, where the court settlement of bankruptcy proceedings was intended to be concentrated in specific courthouses. The coordination of the intention to develop, however, revealed that a better solution was already working in practice, namely that the courts themselves had found a more effective solution through their internal organisation of work. It is also worth talking about the problem that the intention to develop is often too general and that it is difficult to make substantive decisions on the basis of it. It is still early to take stock of the plans to develop, as many drafts are made in accordance with the old rules due to the time of implementation and therefore the drafting of the drafts is not mandatory. It will become mandatory to draw up an intention to develop from the beginning of next year. However, it can already be said today that there is a great deal of room for improvement and coordination of the intention to develop is very useful, as ministries can submit detailed comments and proposals before the Ministry responsible starts writing solutions into a draft law. But now a little bit of numbers. When it comes to drafts, which also include clarifying the importance of impact in the explanatory memorandum, which is the basis for knowledge-based decisions, there is a significant number of such drafts. In 2012, 38 drafts and a design plan were in place for coordination. As of today, there have been fewer such drafts in 2013 than last year, but the main reason is that legislation as a whole has decreased, which could be predicted. We can hope that we will approach the goal: rather to do less, but with thought and quality. This is also confirmed by the coordination and non-coordination ratios. If nine drafts were not agreed in 2011 and only two in 2012 and 2013, it can be concluded that the quality of the drafts will improve. Let it be added that over the course of the year, almost a hundred drafts are in progress for coordination and that there are about as many uncoordinated coordinations as there are without any comment. Now I'm talking about impact assessment. The Ministry of Justice is committed to assessing the effects, expression and importance of all draft laws that are being prepared. While impacts often prove to be irrelevant and therefore no in-depth analysis is carried out, the initial assessment and determination of significance already provide a good overview of the impacts that can be expected in the future. An example of this year's draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure aimed at speeding up the determination of procedural costs and improving the quality of solutions. When writing the draft law, the impact was assessed and a thorough cost and duration analysis was carried out in order to compare civil and administrative proceedings. Thus, the main factors leading to the long duration of the procedure were identified. This information helped the draft writers to shape the changes. Therefore, this draft is based not only on the best judgment, but on the statistics and analysis of the actual case law. As regards the impact assessment, the ex-post evaluation of the performance of the law cannot be omitted. We do not yet have practice on this issue, because ex-post evaluation requires proper impact assessment, but it is still in its infancy, as has been said. I will continue to focus on the other activities that are needed to implement developments in legal policy, i.e. on a quality-supporting organisation. In addition to these working documents and the requirements arising from them, we have developed and continued other forms of cooperation. A round table of legislative leaders will be held regularly, with representatives of ministries, the State Chancellery, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, the Office of the President of the Republic and the Chancellor of Justice. It introduces new major reforms and larger drafts and discusses their bottlenecks. We will also draw up a single overview of the legislative initiatives taken by ministries. This will certainly contribute to the cooperation of ministries, including the organisation of the transposition of European Union law by the deadline. This year, we started the joint training of legislative lawyers, which is still ongoing. These are three-day events, where every day there is a topic that we consulted with the legislative lawyers themselves when we chose. A total of 90 lawyers will be trained this year. It is worth noting that there are about 150 legal lawyers working in legal departments in the ministries, together with people dealing with content issues, who write drafts in the Republic of Estonia, but about 400 officials. During training, issues relating to the Constitution, European Union law and its application, as well as, of course, administrative procedures, will be discussed. If the training cycle is successful, it is planned to continue the training days of legislative lawyers in the future. In addition, together with the Ministry of Finance and Praxis, we organise training courses on the impact of legislation on officials. By the end of the year, 13 training courses have taken place, with around 260 officials carrying out two-day training on the impact assessment of legislation. Therefore, our legislative authority should gain a great deal of competence in order to make further evidence-based decisions and better impact assessments. Another major issue, in addition to what the government is doing, is 'non-legislative activities'. When assessing our development, we must constantly face international practice, trends in the European Union and the OECD among others. It is worth pointing out that the OECD is increasingly paying attention to whether the Member States' legal impact assessment system is effective and whether stakeholders are sufficiently involved. The 2011 OECD report 'Towards a more united government', among other things, told Estonia that we do not have a clear set of rules to ensure the public's involvement in government decisions and the justification and evidence base of these decisions. As I said, we now have an impact assessment system on which the decision-making process is based in place, and above all it can be found in the code of good regulation and regulation and in the methodology of impact assessment. The European Commission and the other institutions of the European Union also place increasing emphasis on evidence-based decision-making and the assessment of legal effects. A representative of the Ministry of Justice is actively involved in the European Commission's working group of legislative experts, where the Commission and the Member States share good and bad legislative experiences. At international level, the sharing of our impact analysis experience has been recognised. In 2011 and 2012, together with Great Britain, we developed an impact analysis system for Croatia as part of the European Union twinning project. The cooperation provided the Croatian Government with levers to improve the quality of its legislation, as well as to facilitate the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with European Union law. I would also like to talk about the revision of the legislation, which started as early as 2010. Its purpose is to repeal laws that have lost regulatory power, including the laws in force under § 2 of the Constitutional Implementation Act and the laws on the ratification of foreign contracts to which private international law applies. When the draft relating to it enters into force as a law, our legal system will be based only on the legislation published in the electronic Official Journal of the State and the last law in force under § 2 of the Constitutional Implementation Act, or the civil code of the ESSR, will become invalid. I hope that you will take this step in the coming months and send fifty years into the history of the Civil Code. As a more far-reaching way forward, the development of legal policies should include an obligation to regularise the evaluation of legal awareness and to define indicators of legal awareness. As a first step, in cooperation with other interested state institutions, we plan to carry out a study on the legal needs of Estonian residents next year. A study based on an internationally recognised methodology aims to identify what problems people encounter and what legal knowledge they need to solve them. So far, we have assessed, first and foremost, the knowledge of the law in force when it comes to legal awareness. Partly related to legal awareness, but at the same time completely separate topic is the State Gazette. We have brought together the most important legal information in the State's Official Journal so that easy access to this information would help to increase people's legal knowledge. Thus, through the National Journal, you can access the case-law and the summary of the most important case-laws. A single search for all pending and processed drafts introduced at the end of 2012 will certainly help here. From the beginning of 2013, all municipalities will publish their regulations in the State Gazette. At the end of the year, it is planned to consolidate most of the full text of the regulations in force in local governments when local governments are ready to submit them. To date, nearly one hundred municipalities have published all suitable regulations. In June this year, all Estonian foreign contracts were systematically made available in the Official Journal of the State, by country and international organisations. In September, we introduced a digital stamp and time stamp for the approval of the legislation for the security of the State Gazette, which avoids the unauthorised amendment of the legislation. At the end of the year, we will apply the English translation module of the laws, which will allow us to find all 250 translations of Estonian laws that have been made and kept up to date by sworn translators. Of course, we also deal with the quality of the legal language: we harmonise its practice in the government, we cooperate with the Riigikogu, we organise the legal language day and we issue the magazine Legal language. As the subject of Legal Language Day is codification of this occasion, I will talk about this in the end of my presentation. Within the framework of the European Social Fund's Better Regulation programme, we have come to a close with the codification of the seven legal areas that began since 2007. These areas are environmental law, social law, economic administrative law, construction and planning law, penal law, the right to misdemeanour and intellectual property rights. The codification of economic governance law has been completed. As a result, the Act on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities will enter into force the following year. The draft construction and planning code and the Penal Code will reach the government and Parliament at the end of this year. The draft Code of Civil Procedure is already in Parliament's proceedings. Environmental law will be codified by the beginning of next year and social law and intellectual property rights by the end of the programme in 2014. Codification organises the existing law in such a way that the legal order becomes clearer and thus makes it easier for the implementing body to find the necessary regulation. In the next financial period of the European Union, we will continue to work on codification and impact analyses of legal areas, with additional legal analyses and harmonisation of the level of legal practitioners. Six areas of law have been planned to be codified: civil law, criminal law, insolvency law, corporate law, educational law and maritime law. The number of impact analyses is estimated at 20 and, of course, just as much legal analysis is required. For the new period, we have planned nearly EUR 3 million for this, and we can already implement this money in the light of developments in legal policy. Good Riigikogu! The transitional period for the implementation of the principles of good lawmaking will be over this year. It is no longer possible to apologise for not knowing, not knowing or feeling, but for legislation to start in a different way. Science-based. More analytical. Open up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U6	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! First of all, thank you for reaching the point where good regulation and regulation have been completed! This will certainly help all the lawyers who are involved in the legislative process. In my opinion, there are two sides to legislation, both of which are very important. The first half is when problems are clarified and problems are solved by writing a bill, or a legal text is prepared. The other side of the case is a very important document called the explanatory memorandum, which should contain the thoughts of the draft preparer and, when the draft comes to Parliament, the legislator's thoughts as to why one or the other has been changed in one way or another. I have raised the question on several occasions in the Committee on Legal Affairs that the explanatory notes should be more comprehensive so that those implementing them understand what the legislator has been thinking and that they would have easier to implement the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U8	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U9	How have you been paying attention to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U10	Time's long gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U11	It's been so long since he's done anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U12	Thank you, good questioner! There is no doubt that you must agree that a comprehensive explanatory statement, together with an impact assessment, is essential for understanding the draft law. Here is a good example of today's draft law on apartment ownership and housing associations, in which you can satisfy your reading passions because the draft, together with the explanatory memorandum, is nearly 300 pages long. So the Committee on Legal Affairs will certainly also have a long and thorough debate. We need to find a balance point. The draft law and its explanatory memorandum should be comprehensive enough. At the same time, I do not think there is any point in putting emphasis on volume either. It is important that the effects of the draft be identified and that the draft be linked to existing law and certainly to European Union law. It is precisely these activities that I have mentioned in the presentation, such as the round table of legislative lawyers, so that the 400 officials who write the laws in Estonia can really understand what the legislative process means and what the explanatory memorandum to the draft law must describe. All this helps to ensure that this result, which reaches the Riigikogu table from the government, is so good that all members of the Riigikogu who collect the draft law for the first time will also receive answers from the explanatory memorandum. The same applies, of course, to the drafts initiated by the Riigikogu. It's still a long way to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U13	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U14	Mr. Minister! You have explained in your relevant and informative presentation that it is planned to introduce a form of development plans that will become mandatory from the beginning of next year. Will it also extend to drafts initiated by a member of the Riigikogu, a committee or a political group? I have another question. I went to a clear language conference some time ago, where we talked long and hard about our legal language being complex and voluminous and there has been a tendency to over-regulate. You have just given this example of an explanatory statement that is several hundred pages long. What are your intentions, how can a clear legal language be considered and the overproduction of legal texts reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U15	Thank you. If we start with the intention of developing it, we've been working for a few years. This requirement does not yet apply to all existing legislation as part of the preparation has started before the period of implementation of the planned development. As I have pointed out, the requirement of intention to develop has helped not to write some drafts and to make other drafts considerably better. Before writing the norm, at least at ministerial level, but also with interest groups, will be debated through the topics that are the most burning, and fundamental choices will be made. It is therefore much easier for the working group to write a draft or a norm. As far as the Riigikogu is concerned, the Riigikogu has not been made an obligation at this time. The Riigikogu has a free mandate to agree on its own decisions. If the Riigikogu considers that a similar procedure is necessary, that the draft procedure will not be submitted before it has been discussed, then it is the right of the Riigikogu. Rather, I am a little hesitant as to whether this agreement will be reached. A member of the Riigikogu is known to have a free mandate and may initiate legislative proposals in the same way. However, this requirement concerns drafts coming from the government. We really want to see that most of the drafts also have an intention to develop. I can only say a few words about the language of justice and the excess of standards. No doubt I agree with the questioner that Estonian law could lead to simpler regulation. At the same time, we see from the case-law that very often courts, or not even they, are waiting for more precise regulation by the parties to proceedings. I would boldly increase the discretion of the court in order for the judge to have a free choice to decide. Let me give you an example. The Code of Civil Procedure in 1993, when it came into force, consisted of a couple hundred paragraphs, and we have now reached almost 760 paragraphs. It is clear that the process itself is increasingly and more regulated. One example is the law on traffic. The traffic code has been raised to the level of the law. The traffic law, when it was adopted in its time, must have been eight pages long, but now we're talking about dozens and tens of pages. We must jointly shape this practice as we go into detail at the level of the law. Personally, I am certainly in favour of greater discretion on the part of the courts and the administration. Some steps have also been taken. An example is the same Code of Misdemeanor Procedure, where the official has been given greater discretion, but that inevitably means greater responsibility for the person who applies the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U16	Thank you very much. Please, Rein Aidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The questioner already opened the subject, but I want to know a little bit more. Judge Särtava has also recently argued that the legal language is not always understood by ordinary citizens. If there is a dispute in court, that is what lawyers do to each other, but the ordinary citizen would like to understand the legal language a little bit more precisely. Is it possible to take this much into account in developments in legal policy or to do something about it? The problem is serious, but it is not easy to solve.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U18	Thank you. I return to my answer to Kalle Laanet. This concerns, in particular, the training of legislative lawyers. These 400 officials in all Estonian ministries, who are mainly preparing the laws in force in Estonia, must be sufficiently trained to be able to write an understandable legal text. In previous years, there have also been examples of this in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. I remember a report by the Chancellor of Justice where he read the definition of the field. Very complex definitions do not make sense to pour out the text of the law, but they are often inevitable. Certain legal definitions must and must remain. Let's look at penal law. There is no way to get away with writing certain standards, and they can be difficult for ordinary people. What is important is that together with the text of the law, there is a reasonable and explanatory explanatory statement that everyone can understand. It is certainly important for those who apply the law to understand the concepts in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U19	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U20	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I'll come back to the intention of being developed. There were 14 in 2012, 13 in 2013 so far. You said that you would expect the majority of the drafts to have an intention to be drawn up. What does this really mean, how many development plans can be in 2014 or 2015? Is there an important leap?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U21	Thank you for your question. I am not going to read the bill here because the number of plans to develop depends primarily on the area. If I look at the next few years, not even 2014 or 2015 but a little further, I will certainly see the connection with codification. Six major areas will certainly not be excluded from the development plans due to codification. The volume of major legislative changes depends in particular on the needs of the sectors, and the number of plans to be developed depends on this. Personally, I'd rather expect less, but a better result. We do not always have the objective of amending the law at all costs when we see a problem, but we will see whether it is not possible to solve this problem by applying the law. I do now believe that we will see more plans to develop in 2014 than there have been in 2012 and 2013. Whether it's 15, 17 or 20, it's hard to say, but you can definitely assume there's more.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U22	Thank you very much. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U23	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The report itself, of course, mainly addressed the national level, but we also have many problems with the legislation of local governments. Judicial battles, which may be the result of particularly daunting local legislation, can sometimes last for years, especially when it comes to planning, for example. You mentioned, as a positive example, the Practical Manual for Officials. I understand that this is mainly about the national level. Are there any mechanisms to increase the legal awareness of local governments and improve the legal preparation of municipal and city secretaries? Often, the preparation of these people varies, starting with a number of problems. Is there anything you can do for the local level here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U24	Thank you. There will certainly be various training courses, there is no doubt about that. Above all, the municipality depends on itself whether and how much it wants to improve the quality of its legislation. Local authorities are known to be autonomous and enjoy the competence of self-decision guaranteed by the Constitution. When they adopt legislation, they also have to comply with national laws, but whether and how much they involve citizens in legislation, for example, is their free choice. Certain things have been written down. Yes, the planning law provides for a planning process, it states when and how a public discussion etc. is taking place, but the general right of self-regulation of municipalities is certainly appropriate here. I very much hope that, along with the development of local authorities, the quality of their legislation will also improve. There are certainly fewer problems with larger municipalities on the technical side of legislation. Smaller ones may have a harder time. You mentioned parish and city secretaries. They are subject to a legal requirement for higher education. There are, yes, certain exceptions, people who have been in office for a long time are able to continue working on the basis of a so-called special permit, but in most cases Estonian parish and city secretaries have received legal higher education and sufficient training. This is a general principle. Future developments will show whether the merger of local governments will also have a positive impact on the quality of legislation. It can be assumed that it will.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U25	Thank you very much. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U26	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You've been talking about the State Gazette for a long time. I honestly say that this is what those who speak the official language will read. In this respect, I have the question: how do you appreciate how well the laws are known by those who do not speak the official language but who have lived in our country for tens of years? Do you even see a problem here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U27	Thank you. No doubt a person could speak the official language of the country in which he lives. Certainly, knowing the language of the state would also change the rights awareness of those who have lived here for decades and tens of years. A person does not face laws every day. If he lives his normal life, he will come into contact with the law when he needs something or is in trouble with something. I appreciate that our laws are available. Citizens who do not speak Estonian can also get an overview of the laws if they have an urgent need to do so. Of course, it could be better. But when it comes to translating laws, it has been discussed several times in this Chamber. There's nothing to add to what's been ringing from this remote control over and over again.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U28	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U29	Good minister! In our parliamentary work, we have always observed that life is becoming less and less formal, and very many things are deregulating. The things that the country used to do are now done by NGOs, civil society organisations, initiatives come from private companies, etc. Does it follow that we should also deregulate the country a little, i.e. give all new non-formal connections, movements and changes more freedom? Actually, I wanted to ask you a very simple question. Is the law, which is several hundred pages long, good or bad? We're going to formally make a short law, but then we're going to crash on a couple hundred pages and actually make it worse, while we have to add more freedom.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U30	Thank you. A good and comprehensive explanatory statement is never redundant. If it takes a few hundred pages, we will use a few hundred pages. It is certainly necessary to give examples in the explanatory memorandum and to dismantle the principles; that is not the question. You asked about "deregulation." As I said in reply to Mr Marus, I am more in favour of discretion and freedom of decision myself. This, however, leads, as I said, to greater responsibility. For example, I will bring you a registration. The law has left NGOs free choice on how to choose their governing bodies. However, at least for the time being, the assistant judge has taken the view that a non-governmental organisation, which as a free association is free to decide on its own life, must not, however, make certain types of choices. Such deregulation is, on the one hand, very good and sensible, and, on the other hand, greater responsibility for decision-makers may mean that the general principles of the rule of law and of understanding of law, such as how NGOs should organise their lives, may become uncertain and may also result in different case-laws, which we may subsequently have to review in the course of legislative transformations in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U31	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U32	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. How could laws be established in such a way that they can be understood unambiguously? In fact, according to the Local Government Organisation Act, in such a case, if a mistrust of the local government manager has been disclosed, the council must appoint a new city or municipality government within four months, otherwise the council will become incapacitated. Despite the fact that there is a Supreme Court ruling on this matter, this same council may adopt legislation for several years and nothing will happen. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U33	Thank you. Laws are written in good faith and in the knowledge that they regulate situations in the best possible way. If there is a problem with the interpretation of the law, it must finally reach the Supreme Court, which has also submitted a resolution on the case you mentioned. This was followed by some legal vacuum or misunderstanding as to which decisions apply and which decisions do not apply. Undoubtedly, we have not had much of this in practice since the restoration of Estonia's independence. Since one of these cases has now reached the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court's decision is certainly the basis for the future interpretation of the laws and, if necessary, the preparation of legislative amendments. But to come to the beginning of your question, we must recall the saying that if there are two lawyers, there are at least four opinions. That's the way it tends to be. People understand the law differently. That is why it is necessary to interpret, clarify and rewrite the law in the explanatory memorandum. If this is not enough, the validity or interpretation of the rule will eventually be assessed by the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U34	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U35	Thank you. Dear Minister, The above mentioned overproduction of draft laws. You mentioned at least twice that there are 400 legislative lawyers working in different agencies. Quite a number, even greater than I expected. Do you confirm the impression that I have as a member of the Riigikogu that we often deal with lawmaking for our own sake? Perhaps the application analysis has sometimes become too weak, because there is always a need to change something that does not work in practice. Isn't there a reason to review the priorities a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U36	Thank you. I would like to clarify your question so that there is no misconception: these 400 officials are included in the list of officials dealing with substantive matters. The legal professions are in the order of 150, and the circa ten, quite roughly speaking, are on top of the ministry. Some ministries have more, some fewer, but it's a very easy number to remember. It's definitely not much. If we look at the structure of the ministries and the entire Estonian state and at the areas governed by the laws, it is clear that this is a perfectly reasonable number. Now the question is whether or not standards are needed. My answer to one of the earlier questions was that it is certainly worth considering at the outset whether the law in force needs to be amended or whether the practice should be changed from the point of view of the law in force. We have discussed this subject quite a lot with the judges in recent months. Changing the civil process mentioned in my speech, particularly as regards procedural costs, is also an example of how seriously we have discussed with the judges whether and how much it is necessary to change the standards of the process in order to improve the situation. The short answer is that that is why we need a development plan to assess whether we need to come to this hall or whether there is a need to change practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U37	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U38	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! In your report, you briefly touched on such a thing as an ex-post evaluation. This process should take place some time after the law enters into force. But as noted in your report, it's all still in its infancy. How do you see the future in this area? After all, we are talking about developments in legal policy until 2018. By what time could we have an ex-post evaluation system standing on our strong feet, when could it become normal and effective?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U39	Thank you for a very good question. Ex-post evaluation is indeed in its infancy because a correct and proper impact assessment system was only introduced a few years ago. It's getting better and better. Ex-post evaluation can be carried out if the ex-ante assessment, i.e. the assessment of potential impacts, is well carried out. It is usually said that the effects of one of the major legislative changes can be assessed after a few years. According to this logic, in 2015 the new Parliament could look at the effects of the laws in the work of this Parliament and their ex-post evaluation and draw first conclusions. I believe, however, that if the developments in legal policy are to be concluded, then an ex-post evaluation has already been carried out for a few or three years, and we have received feedback on how this normal process works. But Estonia is still in relatively good shape as a small and flexible country. The European Public Prosecutor's Office's "final objective" of achieving full capacity by 2023 yesterday in the Committee on Legal Affairs suggests that these deadlines are even longer in large processes. The deadline for the entry into force of the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act, which we are about to discuss, is also years from now, the transitional period is so long. In normal cases, in the case of ordinary law, I dare to believe that an ex-post evaluation should be carried out two, two and a half or up to three years after the entry into force of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U40	Thank you very much. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U41	Thank you, honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister of Justice! We have been talking about legislation today. You also stressed in your report that, in addition to codifying, analysing and systematising, we could also look at the general logic. When we are talking about legislation, we are primarily talking about legislation. However, judicial policy sometimes has even more to do with regulations. How do you see the relationship between legislation, or laws, or regulations, or sub-acts? I must say that, at least in the areas that I feel in detail, regulations sometimes go absurd. If we lower the requirements in the law and reduce red tape, we will at the same time put it to the full in the regulations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U42	Thank you. There is also a great deal of emphasis on what can and cannot be delegated in the training of legislative lawyers. There are undoubtedly areas that need to be regulated by the legislator. From there on, however, in the interests of flexibility, I am basically in favour of delegating everything that can be subdelegated. The primary objective of the legislative body is to lay down general rules, codes of conduct for society. In clarifying these general rules, either with the support of a general act or an individual act, delegation to either the Government or to the Minister, if possible, should not be feared. But the main thing is to assess whether this issue can be delegated or not. If, during the impact assessment or the legislative process as a whole, it is possible to conclude that it is possible to delegate, this should not be ruled out. The above-mentioned and over-regulated law leads to what was pointed out by Mr Maruste that, because of any change in the legal order, the Riigikogu must adopt a decision. I'm sure that doesn't make any sense. It is reasonable to agree general standards at the level of the Riigikogu, the legislative body.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U43	Thank you very much. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister! You spoke here about good legislative practice and about cooperation between the Ministry and Parliament. However, how do you comment on what happened yesterday in the Committee on Legal Affairs? One official said there that the Ministry has decided that this law must be passed, and the Riigikogu must do so. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U45	Thank you. The language used by this official could have been more precise. The draft that has arrived on Parliament's table has been presented by the Government. Consequently, the Government of the Republic has decided that this bill could become a law. Of course, the Riigikogu adopts laws in the Republic of Estonia; no one has taken this right away from the Riigikogu, does not take it or can take it. So I can only comment that this position could only be relied upon by the Government of the Republic having decided that such a law could be passed. It is up to Parliament to decide when one or the other law enters into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U46	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There are laws, legal orders and regulations, and then there are verbal arrangements. I will give an example of the same transport of fuel at the border, which is now restricted. If, for example, tax and customs officials are asked which order or regulation they require passengers to pay excise duty, they say that they have been given an oral order. When I asked what the verbal arrangement was, they didn't even know how to explain it, but people are fined. What is this verbal arrangement? It kind of reminds me of old times.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U48	Thank you. Excise duty can still be levied on the basis of the law. For example, if the law contains a delegation to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board for a discretionary decision, i.e. a decision of discretion, a specific customs officer can also issue oral orders on the basis of this mandate. That is not the problem in itself. A policeman can also give you an oral order, for example, to get out of the car, and that is a perfectly legitimate oral order. Both the police officer and the customs officer have been given a delegation. When asked why excise duty is required, the shortest answer is, of course, that it is done by law. But if someone has asked someone or asked someone to pay something that has not been established by law or by a delegation rule granted by law, it is, of course, illegal activity. There can be no other comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U49	Thank you very much. Every member of the Riigikogu was able to ask a question; I introduced this procedure at the beginning of the discussion of the item. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur. We're going to the negotiations. Please, Mr Pomerants, as representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U50	Good morning. Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, It would be a sin not to speak as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs in this case, but of course I can only do so on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Let me talk a little bit about this debate today. Ladies and gentlemen, As you can understand from the Minister's speech, we still have the opportunity to achieve full implementation of good legislative practice at the end of this term, so that all the components that should be included are taken into account and our descendants can move on from there. As regards the number of legislative lawyers, whether there are few or many, I dare say that they are not excessive. People who go to committees on behalf of the government to defend one or another draft are still very familiar to us, both ministers and Riigikogu committees are always hoping to get further explanations from them. To highlight any other trends that characterise legislation in 2013, I think one aspect relates to the e-state. In the case of the Committee on Legal Affairs, this means that we have quite a wide range of legislative amendments stemming from the introduction of electronic procedures, for example, as regards court proceedings. I am also talking about inclusion. I don't think it's possible to reach the perfect situation here. If you look at the interest groups who are involved in the various draft laws, sometimes a very small non-profit organisation may be involved in any discussion of the draft laws and much larger organisations, even umbrella organisations may not be able to do so at all. I agree with my colleague, Kalle Laanet, that it is certainly our greatest task to eliminate the gaps that hinder the legislator's understanding in the context of second reading. I certainly share the view that the explanatory notes must, in four to five years' time, give us an opportunity to understand why we made one or the other change or, on the contrary, left a situation as it was before. It is also worth pointing out, as a tendency, the principle that we have reached cross-election legislation. The Minister gave an example of style about the Apartment Ownership Act and the Housing Association Act. The law of a sworn translator may be a law that does not affect many, but that law will enter into force in 2020. There are more examples. So talk about sufficient vacatio legis, that is, a waiting period that everyone can prepare to implement the law, can in many cases become a reality. Finally, as far as reading passions are concerned, I recommend fiction to satisfy this. But in the explanatory notes, we try to be as thorough as necessary and as rational as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U51	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U52	First of all, thank you very much to the good friends and colleagues who have done such a good job as ministers of justice in recent years. These have been Rein Lang, Kristen Michal and Hanno Pevkur. Politics and justice are opposites in that politics always wants to move forward, but from a lawyer's point of view, the ideal right is, in fact, one that never changes. That is why lawyers love Roman law, because it has been more or less the same for 2,000 years and that is why it is clear and understandable. This will not happen now, because life will change and justice will have to go along with a changing life. I will now simply name the changes that we face in the legal policy, not in order of priority, but in the way they come before us. New marriages have developed. How many marriages are that much more? We have a partnership, a life relationship, a life together, a bed acquaintance, no bed, etc. Migration. New people are coming to Estonia. Does this involve some kind of restriction of rights, discrimination? Yeah or no? Migration is a fact, and not only do we have to talk to people who already live here and represent some other cultural space. In the future, we must take more account of the fact that more people like this are coming here. It is a new and very confusing and incomprehensible thing to us that is all about biomedical and medical ethics: cloning, growth of tissues in fetuses, medical marijuana problems, euthanasia, etc. To give one of the latest and most passionate examples, it is important to mention freedom of expression in the context of social media freedoms. The so-called Delfi decision that has only recently been taken, which is related to Estonia, will in the near future have an impact on freedom of expression throughout the European cultural space. We recall ACTA's eponyms, which took place one and a half or two years ago in a terrible cold winter. But what was the point of fighting against the protection of software when the DA's office comes, pulls the plug out of the wall and simply takes the computer away with roots and drawers? No software can help against this! The next issue is again a new problem, although we have tried to regulate it to some extent. This is a competitive situation in the context of highly technologisty and certain inevitable centralisation. We have talked a lot about corruption, but the usual breach of competition law between the two companies is nothing more than the offsetting of mutual bribes, while at the same time the transfer of money is taking place. The competition authority is doing a very good job, but let us admit that it has remained weak in new economic conditions in order to carry out these new tasks. The 30% profit margins of Eesti Energia were already discussed here. So, life is changing, and now the right to follow it is something that we need to do. The second aspect, where life goes against the law, is that it is as if the law is clear, even the explanatory statement is several hundred pages thick, but the law functions as we do not want it to. What are the recurring errors I want to point out? There are too many human rights violations in Estonia in the pre-trial phase: searches, detentions, interviews without sanction or sometimes with sanctions, but without any legal justification. They're looking for one, they're finding another, they really need a third, but nobody's thought of that. Those who apply our law are often less professional. The tragic case was the story of Waaks in Võrumaa, where there were two bodies behind it. Then it turned out they were looking for 20 people, but they found smooth-bore weapons. On the ground, the locks of the guns were rebuilt on the trailer and between the mugs. The company's pride was a gun that shot 80 meters away. But two people died. One part of our policy is the fictitious nature of acquittal decisions and behaviour. Did you notice what was said about Nicolas Sarkozy, accused of taking bribes from L'Oréal's company? The French prosecutor's office said they're going to stop the investigation because Mr Sarkozy is innocent. Have you heard such a word in Estonia? An innocent person in Estonia is said to have been able to squirm or escaped criminal investigation. They complain that the deadline ran out or they say, "Well, what could we do? " But these words, that man was acquitted simply because he did nothing wrong, cannot be heard from the mouth of the lawyers. As far as the press is concerned, legal education is also a matter of law at all, but of course the Minister of Justice cannot be held responsible for this. If Korzhets has taught us to distinguish between a thorn and a weasel, no heavenly grace, why are we not able to achieve the same level of knowledge in the field of basic justice? All our citizens' initiatives and initiatives are nice and good, but if three-quarters of them are legally illiterate, then something is still wrong. Finally, I want to use the Prime Minister's expression. The more to comment here, the Prime Minister has said so himself. This, too, is a question of legal policy, I am thinking of selective legal certainty, which means that, in the case of exactly the same acts, the behaviour of law enforcement authorities depends on who is the subject of the presumed offence. I recall that the eyes of the Goddess of Justice are blindfolded. We tend to hold only one eye like a pirate, with the other looking to the right-left to find out what kind of deal is useful to a lawyer or, for example, to a prosecutor's office. I think that is also a legal problem. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U53	They decided to limit it a little, and that's it. It was said that, according to the principles of the liberal economic model, no restrictions can be imposed here. However, we have restricted the advertising of casinos and tobacco products. The law on law enforcement was discussed at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs. There the ministry official explicitly stated that the Ministry has decided that this law will be passed, and so the Riigikogu must do so. I was completely speechless on that. The Minister is talking about good lawmaking practice here, but the officials know nothing about it. I very much hope that the Minister will still make it clear to this official what functions the Riigikogu and the Ministry have. I would call that a legal identity crisis. More, I think, there should be democracy and a fresh vision. Weary voters, as well as everyone else, are tired of the road roll policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U54	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U55	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U56	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Gräzin to speak on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U57	Thank you very much for your very brilliant speeches. I will conclude the negotiations because all the political groups have been able to take the floor. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U58	Thank you very much. Please, Neeme on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U59	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U60	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U61	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, It is good to hear that the government has done a great deal of work to improve the quality of legislation. Now it is only a question of whether the quality of legislation is a technical or a substantive issue. I would approach this whole subject from a completely different perspective. It should be borne in mind that developments in legal policies are not intended to establish and respect the rules of procedure in themselves, but rather to ensure the quality of the legal space in substance. It is the quality of the substance that will guide my further reasoning. I will pay attention to three areas of life, which in any case, regardless of the political power that governs Estonia, play an important role in determining the future fate of our country and people. I am talking about education policy, family policy and the working environment for entrepreneurship, especially from the point of view of the substantive quality of legislation. Take, for example, the new version of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which came into force at the beginning of the school year, which the Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Teachers' Association has appointed as the result of the political race. 'Why do we even have state exams if we nationally value only one percent of the maximum result? ' the teacher wrote only the day before the last reading of the bill in the Riigikogu. Then he didn't know it was gonna get any more complicated. According to the basic school and upper secondary school law adopted, the state examination has been passed if the student receives at least 1% of the maximum score, while the state examination has been satisfactorily passed at least 20% of the maximum result. What is an unsatisfying act, no one understands that right now. Is this a clear, simple and precise regulation, as envisaged by the legislative policy development document? I'm afraid not. In 2010, the President of Estonia introduced the concept of 'bad lawmaking' to the legal scientists in the Vanemuine Concert Hall. Sadly, the concept is very topical. What kind of legal clarity can be said in the case of legislation such as the one we had to admit in the case of the new PGS? We ask the faculty or educators what is the most difficult task in education policy, whether it is to separate primary school and upper secondary school or, quoting Professor Toomela, the tools for shaping the assessment or to describe the teacher's qualifications. Or we ask the student associations whether the higher education reform guaranteed free study at the university and what they think about the new procedure for calculating student benefits. The law itself is not bad if the target group does not like it. However, this is primarily about the quality of the substance. What is the use of inclusion if the law has political, or rather political, objectives and leaves behind the needs for substantive development in the field? When we are talking about family policy, we include, for example, amendments to the National Family Benefits Act adopted at the end of last year and entered into force in the summer of this year, which the initiators of the amendments have also called a need-based reform of family benefits. 'The need-based family allowance is a completely new type of family allowance intended for families most in need', explains kindly the Ministry of Social Affairs official in the June press. 'This support will be paid to families with children living below the relative poverty line. .. All families with children with financial difficulties can apply for needs-based family support. ' However, only EUR 9,59 is foreseen for the first and second children to alleviate economic difficulties. The results were predictable. Instead of an estimated 30000 families, the state paid an additional grant in July to less than 3000 families with children, i.e. about 9% of the households it was intended to pay. When quoting Allar Jõks, the law must be clear, effective and appropriate. Be good and tell us whether this so-called reform served the objectives of social security and what its expected impact will be. At least as far as single and two-child families are concerned, he certainly did not serve these goals. Training in analysing the effects of the legislation mentioned by the Minister is essential, although it seems to be a little late. Thirdly, I will address the legal environment for entrepreneurship, which should be stable and ensure Estonia's international competitiveness, as stated in point 7 of the legal policy developments. Can we say that the surge in environmental charges and water charges and other such decisions will increase Estonia's competitiveness or the confidence of the business community in the state? At this point, we are not talking about excessive charges, but about the country as a stable and secure partner for the private sector in promoting the country's economy. I quote the CEO of the Estonian Chemical Industries Association: 'Instead of encouraging the introduction of more sustainable technologies through environmental charges, there is a situation where companies are no longer afraid to invest because of the unpredictable size of taxes. ' If, as a result of the development of legal policies, we fail to ensure the substantive development of teaching in education, if we fail to guarantee the social security of Estonian families and a stable working environment for promoting entrepreneurship, this document has not fulfilled its task. Each document must be read from the beginning. We will also start by reading the developments in legal policy from the beginning: 'Because of the need to ensure the constitutional rights and freedoms of everyone, to increase the coherence of society and the effectiveness of the legal system, given that the law is and will remain the main instrument of political decision-making in the democratic rule of law, noting that drawing up clear, simple and precise legislation is essential to ensure that they are put into practice... ' And so on. This has not worked so far, we still have to make an effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U62	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for a presentation by Mrs Tuus-Laul on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, People's fundamental rights, the quality of legislation and good practice in legislation are also the subject of my speech today, on behalf of the Central Party Group. The subject of human rights in criminal proceedings has been on the agenda since the Central Party Group handed the Riigikogu a draft to that effect. The reason for this was the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, with which the Estonian state had been accused of violating the fundamental rights of people. Our draft contained many points that should have been changed in Estonian criminal proceedings a long time ago. It will be done gradually, but there is still a very long way to go. In addition, the Chancellor of Justice is not recommended to be heard. As long ago as two years ago, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder indicated that § 12615 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is contrary to the Constitution, as there is no provision for systematic control over the postponement of notification of a surveillance operation. The amendment to the law adopted to take account of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice narrowed down the grounds for delaying notification of the surveillance operation, but did not improve the procedures for monitoring the notification of the surveillance operation. The new comprehensive regulation on notification and postponement of the surveillance operation, as we all know, came into force in s. a on 1 January, but shall not extend to cases which occurred earlier. The coalition partners consider that the Chancellor of Justice's proposal means a follow-up of matters, it is very expensive and would lead to very much excessive work. We believe that this means that coalition politicians do not defend people's fundamental rights. In the spring we discussed consumer credit and credit. We have continued to do so, and this will also be discussed today at the joint committee meeting, and more specifically, the principle of responsible lending will be discussed. The problem with Estonians, as we all know, is to borrow. According to the principle of responsible lending established by the Law of Obligations Act, the lender must receive sufficient information about the applicant in order to assess the applicant's creditworthiness. At the same time, lenders have recognised that irresponsible lending has caused problems for borrowers who often fail to assess whether or not they are able to obtain the loan commitment. Hence, the lack of understanding of who is responsible and how is responsible creates even more confusion. The revised law is currently not fulfilling its purpose. Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, has said in one of his speeches that speaking about the effects of the law, it must be said that it is absolutely necessary to anticipate and analyse the effects. As a politician in opposition, I think that is not exactly what is being done. How has it been analysed in the preparation of the draft short-term loans that the lender has to ask the borrower for detailed information about its income and expenses, while it has been excluded from the wording of the law that it must take this into account when granting the loan? This problem has also been referred to by the marketing manager Rasmus Tip of Credit24. When she handed over the bill in January, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur made clear that the purpose of this bill was to prevent over-indebtedness. That is not what we have achieved. Nowhere is there regulated how much money a person has to keep in his hands so that he can be regarded as a responsible borrower. It is also surprising that the members of the Reform Party and the IRL support the mass television advertising of fast-track loans. The amendment tabled by the Centre Party Group to ban their massive outdoor and television advertising was voted down. Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U64	We're going to the second item. The first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, presented by the President of the Supreme Court, 'Freedom of a Member of the Supreme Court, Märt Rask' begins. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U65	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft of the Riigikogu's decision to release a member of the Riigikogu from the judicial office of Märt Rask was discussed by the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu at its meeting on 8 October. The draft decision was submitted by the President of the Supreme Court Priit Pikamäe on 17 September 2013 and provides for the release of the member of the Supreme Court from the judicial office of Märt Rask as of 28 November 2013. The Constitutional Commission stated that the initiative of the President of the Supreme Court was based on the self-intentional statement of Märt Rask dated 13 September. a. The Commission decided to support the initiative of the President of the Supreme Court. It was also decided to make some linguistic and regulatory corrections to the draft decision. In addition, the Commission decided to add an enforcement rule to the draft decision. To this end, the draft was supplemented by point 2 which states that the decision will enter into force upon signature. Consequently, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to present the draft as amended at first reading and proposed that the draft be put to the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U66	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U67	Honourable Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Märt Rask, thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U68	Thank you very much. Today's speeches are a force for applause. Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. The commission proposes that draft 484 should be adopted as a decision. We are preparing for the final vote. Honourable to the Riigikogu, I will final vote on the Riigikogu's decision of the President of the Supreme Court to release a member of the Supreme Court from the judicial office of Märt Rask 484. Please take a stand and vote. 54 members of the Riigikogu voted against, with one abstention. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U69	We are going to the third item on today's agenda. The first reading of the Bill 462 of the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to present the speech chair to Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! By continuing the ideas discussed in the debate on the previous point, let me introduce you to the draft Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act 462. A long-made beauty could be said of this draft, since the preparation of the draft began already in 2006. This bill concerns about a million people in Estonia. I really hope that a majority of the Riigikogu will read the bill concerning so many people. It would be good if all members of the Riigikogu read the draft together with the explanatory statement, because you can be sure that your voters will ask you about this draft. In 2006, as mentioned, the Ministry of Justice organised a round table for the first time on the issue of apartment property and its governance. Of course, a lot of water has flowed into the sea ever since. In the last few years, the draft has gone to three major coordination circles, to which we have involved all interested parties. As a mid-term remark, there are not many drafts that are coordinated three times. There have been compromises and the idea of the draft has been clarified. At the moment, on behalf of the Government of the Republic, I can confirm that the draft is ripe for parliamentary procedure. Now we come to the main question that is still being reached or should be reached for each draft: why is this draft needed? I am trying to give you an example of a situation where a normal person living in his own apartment wishes to familiarise himself with the rules governing his property. What does he have to do about it? If he were to seek advice from a person who is familiar with the matter, he would be able to respond so that in particular the Apartment Ownership Act, the Housing Association Act, the Non-profit Association Act and the Property Law Act should be read. In addition, he should familiarise himself with a large number of Supreme Court decisions, etc. That's the problem. In Estonia, this area is regulated by laws that are very important for people and are complemented by judicial decisions. Let's face it, the courts understand things differently. An example of the current confusion could be a decision made by the Supreme Court some time ago. The courts disagreed as to whether the dispute concerning the use of parking places should be resolved on the basis of the Apartment Cooperatives Act and the Non-profit Associations Act or the Apartment Ownership Act and the Property Law Act. It was a very exciting case. Those who have an interest will definitely find this decision on the website of the Supreme Court. In order to clarify this confused situation, the Ministry of Justice has developed a new draft law on apartment ownership and housing associations and has, to date, brought together in particular the issues and case-law that are inconsistently regulated in these two laws. For an ordinary person, this means, above all, that he gets answers to his questions from one place. Personally, it seems reasonable to me. As the new law is simpler and clearer, regulation will continue to be the same and the law will include rights and obligations. A normal person does not need to search for additional papers, other laws or court decisions. Thus, the person can look at all the activities of the building management company in this law. So what's going to change according to the bill? There are, as you might imagine, quite a few changes. There are more fundamental and more detailed changes. I will probably not be able to introduce all the changes to you in 20 minutes, so I will limit myself to the most important ones. In my opinion, one of the most important changes is that the existing housing owners' cooperatives will disappear and that in the future the property can only be managed in the form of a housing association. This will eliminate the problems that have so far arisen between the homeowners' co-operation and its ruler. For example, the current housing ownership joint is confusing by signing a contract with the building company that is repairing the house, as it is not clear who is party to the contract, whether the manager or the owner of the dwelling, there is no record of this in the register. But what if a person who calls himself ruler is not really a ruler? There have been cases where a person acting as a ruler has taken money from the residents and has not passed it on to the service provider and people have simply lost their money. In houses where there is no housing company by the time the law enters into force, it is created by the state. In a house with up to ten apartments, you do not need to choose a management board, you can make decisions together and sign them. This means that the owners of the apartments do not have to pay lawyers a consultation fee for the creation of a housing association, a notary fee for the application, or a state fee for the entry. The state will do it for them. I would also like to mention that the draft changes the question of liability. At present, there is a situation where the co-owner is jointly and severally liable in case of danger from the building. What does that mean? In short, this means that if, for example, I go to visit a friend who lives in a housing company and an ice cone falls on my car from the roof of the building, I am free to choose who to claim damages against. I would, of course, make a claim against the richest person in the house, because this is how I most likely get the money I need. Then let him turn to the other owners so that they can compensate him for some of the money. I want him to have some nerves in this enterprise. However, the draft requires such a claim to be made against the building management company in the future. If the building management company does not have enough money to compensate for the damage, the owners of the apartment must decide to increase the management costs. As a third significant change, I would point out that the activities of the building management company will become more transparent to the owner of the dwelling compared to the current law. Each owner of a dwelling is expressly entitled to receive information from the management board about the activities of the building management company and to consult the documents of the building management company. The owner of the dwelling does not receive a bank account statement directly from the bank, but must require it from the management. The draft also regulates a number of so-called minor problems, which are not politically sound, but are nevertheless important. I would like to mention the pledge rights of the building management company. You'll find it in § 44. This is a very big change, although few are directly affected. In short, the right to pledge by the building management company means that the building management company will be able to enforce its claim even if the mortgage holder does not join the enforcement procedure. At the same time, the requirement of the building management company is limited to one year's management costs, not to the imagination of the members of the building management company, as is currently the case. As Minister of Justice, I also consider it important to clarify the regulation of the insolvency of the housing cooperative, i.e. essentially the reorganisation of the housing company. It was already in the first version of the bill, but it has evolved a lot over time. According to the version on your tables, it is in principle possible to decide to terminate the building management company in bankruptcy proceedings. I also think it is worth noting that the new law has more clearly regulated decision-making, including the rules for borrowing and modernising the building, and that the obligation for the owner of the dwelling to heat his apartment is clearly stated. This obligation can also be deduced from the current law, but in what letter it is written. I think that here it is quite appropriate to wrap up and wish the Committee on Legal Affairs the strength to deal with this draft. I am sure that Estonia will have good regulation to regulate the activities of housing associations, as the law will become simpler and it will be easier for people to deal with housing associations in the future. As a representative of the Government, I am pleased that, in the preparation of the draft law on building ownership and housing cooperatives in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Members of the Commission understood its necessity and decided to send the draft to the first reading. We certainly support the completion of the first reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U71	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U72	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In order to achieve the objectives of the new Act, it is necessary to first organize and check the register of non-profit organisations and foundations in the land register. My question has to do with this. Do these jobs require extra costs and how much money are we talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U73	Thank you. This is one of the reasons why the entry into force of the Act is planned for 1 January 2018 (see § 94 of the draft). If, in the coming years, it is possible to recover costs and make technical adjustments more quickly, the Riigikogu may also discuss the earlier entry into force of the Act. But the main reason for the quite late entry into force of this law is that it takes so long for the bill to involve costs, planning them and re-formating housing associations in the register. The exact costs are difficult to plan for three years, but they certainly amount to tens of thousands of euros, perhaps even more than one hundred thousand euros. So this bill is going to cost a lot, but we've taken it into account and planned it, so there shouldn't be any problems here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U74	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U75	Minister, thank you very much. When you and the Committee on Legal Affairs agreed that the first reading of this bill would be on 15 October, you knew that there would be local elections on 20 October. Clearly, there is a great public interest in the law concerning the daily lives of millions of people, and people want to know about it from the source. The Sillamäe Association of Apartment Cooperatives wanted to arrange a meeting with the authors of the bill, the officials of the Ministry of Justice. I sent this request to the Ministry and received the reply that the Minister had prohibited his officials from having public meetings with citizens before 20 October. Doesn't it seem to you that if you refuse officials to meet citizens before the elections, that means direct politicisation of the official body? The campaign for the elections to the European Parliament has already started. Do you intend to set a certain period between 20 October and 25 May when ministerial officials can explain draft laws to citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U76	Thank you. I don't know who gave you that information. That information is vile slander. I never forbade any official to meet anyone. Anyone can meet anyone if they want to. I don't know if it was your arbitrary interpretation or something like that, but I would ask you not to use such expressions in the future. I certainly do not have a plan in the future, nor do I want anyone to refuse to meet anyone. If someone has asked to meet someone, everyone can decide for themselves. We don't have any censorship in the Ministry. If anyone wants to meet me, it depends a lot on what my time chances are. If anyone wants to meet someone else from the ministry, let them agree, meet and discuss as much as the heart pleases.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U77	Thank you very much. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Title 2 of the bill sets out the procedure for convening the general meeting and determines when the general meeting of the owners of the dwelling is indecisive. Paragraph 23 further states that a new meeting is valid regardless of the number of participants. Does this mean that if only two members are to attend a new meeting of a building association of 100 members, they can take all decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U79	Thank you. The building management company is a joint collection of apartment owners. This requires that the members of the building management company are responsible for decisions taken jointly. If the meeting of the building management company has been convened in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Act, the members of the building management company, i.e. the owners, have at least a moral obligation to participate. If they do not participate, the law must provide for the possibility that a meeting of the building management company can take place and decisions can be taken. So if, as you mentioned, even two members of the building management company participate in the next meeting of the building management company, which is properly convened, it should not theoretically be ruled out that the decision made at this meeting is legal. If other owners feel that this decision has been taken illegally, they must challenge it. If you undertake the Housing Association Act, you will see that the current law also contains the requirements for convening a meeting. This is what we have tried to regulate in conjunction with § 22 "Voting Right at the General Meeting' and § 23 "Calling a New General Meeting'. There is a small paragraph in the explanatory memorandum that I will kindly read to you because perhaps you have not read it: 'The time limit laid down in paragraph 2 for convening a new meeting is derived from the third sentence of § 19 (3) of the current COS II. Since the provision directly regulates the sending of a notice to convene a new general meeting, the interpretation problem arising from the wording of the third sentence of § 19 (3) of the current COS II is no longer apparent as to what the deadline for convening a meeting means. ' The regulation of the deadline is also set out in the Commercial Code. If the number of members is not required for the first meeting properly convened, it is necessary to give the building management company, as a set of owners, the opportunity to make decisions. That's why they put that extra buffer in there. If you have an opinion and a suggestion that a cooperative should not hold a meeting if, for example, a third or half of the owners of the dwelling are present, you must consider that this may mean that decisions will not be taken. However, this situation cannot be created if the decisions of the building management company are not made. The members of the housing association, or owners, must be responsible for the use and disposal of their property.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U80	Thank you very much. Please, Margus Hanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U81	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I come to the mortgage law of the housing company, which is a new and relatively revolutionary thing, because it puts the housing company's claim ahead of the mortgage, when the property is mortgaged, which in turn can seriously harm the interests of financial institutions. Do you think this regulation will make housing loans more expensive because the costs of financial institutions will increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U82	Thank you. I really hope I don't. This was one very large topic that was discussed with financial institutions, the Association of Housing Cooperatives and other parties. This is a very serious issue. This issue could certainly also be discussed more widely in the Committee on Legal Affairs and perhaps here during the second reading of the big saalis. If you ask for my subjective position, of course, as a lawyer, I may wonder how the requirement of a housing association can be above, for example, a maintenance claim, a mortgage-backed claim or some other debt-law claim that the court has ruled out. It is primarily based on the fact that the building management company has a greater public interest, which is responsible for the functioning of its house. The shortfall in management costs may jeopardise the future functioning of the entire house. As a result, not only the housing company is included in the protection, but the protection is reserved for the owners of the dwelling, i.e. the house. But there's a limit on it. This limitation is known to be one year management costs. The point of the restriction is that the management of the building management company will monitor debtors and quickly start collecting debt from them. That has to be taken into account. This may not only be a bank claim, there may also be other debt-law arrangements, such as maintenance. It should be taken into account that there is a limit on management costs for one year. It should be a golden medium for the protection of the interests of both parties, on the one hand a financial institution or another creditor, and on the other hand a body responsible for the protection of the building management company as other owners.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U83	Thank you very much. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U84	Thank you, President of the sitting. Mr. Minister! When I have been in contact with the people of housing associations, they have highlighted the lack of transparency in management activities, especially as regards money and its use, as one of the biggest concerns. Houses need to be renovated, services need to be ordered for very large amounts of money, and often there is fear that the service ordered does not correspond to the market price and is not of high quality. This is a cause of concern and distrust for people, because although the service is ordered by the board, it is ultimately the responsibility of everyone, and for that many also have to borrow. Transparency in the public sector is relatively well ensured through procurement procedures. This draft law does not pay attention to this and there are no such requirements for housing associations. Do you think this is a problem that needs to be solved? Or do you think that the current situation ensures this transparency relatively well?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U85	Thank you. The rights and obligations of the management board of the building management company were one of the biggest objects of dispute in the preparation of the draft, in addition to the right to pledge. For example, the question of bank secrecy. It was discussed whether a member of the building management company could have the right to access the bank details of the building management company to see what transactions the management of the building management company has made. As a result of the dispute, bank secrecy remained valid. In order to break through this secret, a member of the building management company should submit to the management board his or her wishes to know about the transactions, and then he or she will receive the information. If the management board of the building management company refuses, the member of the cooperative must apply for these data by legal proceedings. For the other operations referred to by you, the members of the building management company will in particular be protected by the general meeting. There must be the first choice of management board reporting to the cooperative and, secondly, the rules under which the building management company buys or signs one or the other service must be clearly agreed between the members of the building management company. If the members of the management board of the building management company fail to comply with these agreements, it is possible to select new members of the management board, as in other selected places. But yes, my ear has also come to various examples of the functioning of housing associations. It must be assumed here that those who decide will be chosen jointly by the members of the building management company. This will ensure control. The members of the housing association have no prohibition to create, in addition, their own audit committee or other control mechanisms, i.e. to make management control multi-level.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U86	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U87	Thank you. Good minister! I have also met with many of the presidents of housing associations. Everyone has a question about § 17, which states that a building management company may have a statute. That means you don't have to have a charter. However, the Statute was still a code of conduct for the presidents. Why is this provision formulated in this form? Because my question was short, I'm gonna ask you a little bit more. I'm sure you've already received feedback from the housing associations. What are the main problems other than the transparency of the Bureau's activities? What has caused the greatest objections?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U88	Thank you. Yeah, a building management company might have a charter. That is the nature of this provision. We add here the law under § 28 (1) of the General Part of the Civil Code Act that a legal person governed by private law has a statute or, in cases provided for by law, a company contract. Apartment association is a special legal entity that always has an association agreement, but it may also have a statute. The housing cooperative must have a company contract and may have a statute. If the members of the cooperative see the need for a statute, it will certainly be done, but the association agreement must be. In my report, I said that in an apartment building with less than ten apartments, you don't have to form a cooperative or choose the board at all, decisions are made jointly. The freedom to decide for itself could, in my opinion, be a cooperative. If the cooperative also decides to make the statutes, it has two complementary legal bases: the association agreement and the articles of association.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U89	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U90	Thank you, Madam President. Reading this bill will inevitably raise the question to which you have already answered in the debate on the top-up point on today's agenda. It was intended to write a very simple and understandable text, because it must also be understood by members of housing associations who are very different people, but in fact this is not the text. The text is very complex, it is full of references to other laws. However, I remember from the discussions that it was intended to avoid references where possible and to make the text very clear. The first half of the question is how you appreciate the degree of complexity of this bill. I have another question. The bill states that the general meeting of the owners of the apartment will have a quorum if the participating owners hold more than half of the votes and more than half of the shares in the co-ownership, unless the statutes provide otherwise. However, if there is no statute and there is an association agreement, what legislation must be read in order to understand whether the meeting is a quorum or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U91	Thank you. I'll start at the end. You have to read the law. That is also what I say in addition to the answer to Mrs Tuus-Laul's question. The association agreement and the law in conjunction provide most of the answers to questions concerning the building management company. This concerns the convening of the general meeting of the building management company and its decision-making powers, as well as the decision-making procedures and the administration of the house. The law has been tried to make it as simple and short as possible. If we take the basic text of the law and put aside the implementing provisions, we will see that there are 72 sections here. Section 3 of the Law refers to the amendment of other laws. So a broad area of effort has been made to make as short a law as possible. I also gave examples in my first presentation of legislation where there are hundreds of paragraphs in the law. I tried to browse through the text quickly, and there weren't a lot of references. References were more limited to the different points of the same law, which is perfectly okay, there is no need to rewrite the norms already described in the same law. Indeed, in the section on the name of the building association there is, for example, a reference to the Code of Civil Procedure, but there are not many of these references. However, the answer to the final part of the question is very simple: at least at the current level of the law, we have sufficient regulation to ensure that, if there is no statute, the law and the association agreement are used.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U92	Thank you. Please, Jaak Allik, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U93	Minister, thank you very much. My constituents, too, are very excited by the problem of no longer having a statutory requirement. You said the building management company must have an association agreement. When I examined why there is no reference to the statutes in the law, your subordinates explained to me that if the state is going to make housing co-operatives for apartment owners, as provided for by the law, and if the owners are not coming to the meeting, then there will be no statute either, because someone has to adopt the statute. In this case, however, the question arises as to how this association agreement or special property agreement will arise if people do not come together. That's not such a funny question. I was surprised myself, but a lot of questions have been asked about what happens if the cooperative is forced to do and people don't come together. Why don't you explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U94	Thank you. The provisions of the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act are then based on how the building association forms. The building management company is registered and the owners receive a notification that the building management company has been formed. The articles of association can really be created only if the owners of the dwelling deem it necessary. If the owners of the dwelling do not consider the statutes necessary, the law must provide a sufficient basis for the building management company to operate. Let's look at practical life. For example, if a house with four or eight apartments wishes to renovate the heating system, change the windows or repair the roof, the owners must communicate with each other. Apartment houses usually do not allow the renovation of the general systems of a house where no agreement between the owners of the dwelling is required unless the real parts of the property can be divided.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U95	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U96	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Since the bill affects nearly a million people living in apartment buildings, I think it should be understandable for every person living in Estonia. Some things, however, are not well understood here. For example, Paragraph 9 (2) states that the amendment does not unduly harm the legitimate interests of any owner of the dwelling. The draft law also uses the term "housing agreement' in several places, which is not precisely defined in the law. I want to know if it is a written document or an oral decision. Perhaps you can comment on these terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U97	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 462 be completed. I will set the deadline for tabling 462 amendments. a on 29 October at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the third item is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 12.26 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U98	Thank you. This is, of course, a matter of general understanding of the law. We all understand that, in most cases, the agreement will be formalised in writing, especially when it concerns several parties that face financial obligations. If, for example, you were living in an apartment building with six other owners, I don't think you'd agree with the seven of you to renovate the house, but you wouldn't write down how the obligations are fulfilled. At the same time, yes, it is also possible to agree orally. For example, it is agreed that the heating system will be renovated by this or another company, and, of course, once the agreement has been concluded, the cooperative will be jointly responsible for it. If problems arise, for example, if a owner says that the building management company has entered into an agreement without his knowledge and has not been properly informed, then there is no choice but to go and solve these problems in court. The general concepts of justice and legal order are helpful to every person, but I do not believe that the text of the law can contain such complex concepts or provisions that a person may not understand. If there are any problems, the first place to ask for advice is the management of the building management company. The Association of Apartment Associations has told us that they too help to interpret the law to the owners of the dwelling in their daily work. So it's okay to go there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U99	Jaanus Tamkivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your brief presentation you said, among other things, that the bill includes the possibility of a forced closure of the housing company when things have gone very badly. After the accident, what happens to the apartment building where the housing company's activities are forced to be terminated? How will joint action continue in this house, or what will happen there? How can practical things be arranged there?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U101	Thank you. The general rule is that the building management company has to work. In order for the house to stand up and be heated, there must be a ruler or the building management company itself. When we are talking about heating apartment buildings, it is not known that a particular apartment is heated but a cabin box. Consequently, the draft has a duty that no owner can simply turn off the heating system, because the heating system is one whole. We have dedicated the entire 4th chapter to the end of the housing association. The liquidation procedure is specifically set out there. But you asked what would happen next. In principle, the owners themselves must decide how to proceed with the management of the building management company, whether a new cooperative is started or not a new statute is made, but the law is based on and carried forward on the basis of a common agreement or an association agreement. The house isn't going anywhere, it's still going to be there. The obligation to terminate has been introduced into the law rather as an opportunity for the management of the building management company to take responsibility. Let me give you a theoretical example. If the management board of the building management company has not acted under the law and as a result the foundation has been established to terminate the building management company, then the remaining owners of the apartment can choose a new management board if the management board has acted abusively and the building management company has had no other choice to re-select the management board. But in any case, the house must continue to be managed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U102	Margus Hanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U103	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The bill provides for a reduction of the interest that the building management company can charge the owner of the dwelling in the case of a debt of economic costs. At present it is 0.7% per day, which makes 25% per year, now it is decreasing, it is Euribor plus 8% per year. This is, of course, good news for the owners of the apartment, but bad news for the board of the cooperative, because the cooperative still has to take into account the higher interest rate. The bill, by reducing this delay, seems to favour debtors. Perhaps, therefore, the situation of decent, always in good time for the owners of apartments who perform their duties will also change. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U104	The obligation of the owner to provide information to the building management company should be considered important. In essence, this is not a major innovation, since such an obligation should come from the general principle of good faith. However, the association of housing associations and others have also considered this to be very important because it is accompanied by the possibility for the building management company to consider the location of the dwelling property as the owner's place of residence or employment if no other address has been given. This will provide greater clarity in the delivery of notices of meetings and other such documents. Finally, I am talking about the distinction of banking secrecy mentioned here, which was in the first version of the draft, which was also seen by the housing cooperative support group, but is now excluded at the request of many parties, such as housing cooperatives and banks. At the same time, the owner of the dwelling has an obligation to provide information and to obtain an extract from the bank account of the building management company, which is not directly from the bank, but is able to require it from the management board. The Reform Party Group supports the rapid processing of the draft Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act in the Riigikogu, so that it can be implemented in January 2018 as previously proposed in the Bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U105	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U106	Thank you. There were quite a number of disputes over the delay. We tried to base ourselves on the debt law and the general level of late payment and to look at the regulations that are coming to us with regard to interest on late payment or from European Union law. Finally, we reached a compromise. As I said, the building management company will first and foremost acquire more rights under the right of pledges, but it must also be looked at by the owners so that the overall balance is maintained. According to memory, in these debates, the argument that the general rate of default in debt law is based on the law was maintained, and the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act should be similar to the Law of Obligations Act in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U107	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U108	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister! It's a very important law. As it already sounded here, it concerns about a million people. It is a law that changes the activities of housing associations very much. Do you have any plans to inform the public about the new law? If so, what is the plan and by what channels do you intend to explain the content of this law to all members of housing associations?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U109	Thank you. There is no written plan at the moment, but we have thought about all kinds of activities to explain the law. Fortunately or unfortunately how to take it, according to the current Act, this law will only enter into force on 1 January 2018. So we have plenty of time. We will certainly use all possibilities, in particular the help of the Association of Housing Cooperatives, as well as other channels, to make long and comprehensive reviews of the new law. If possible, we will also include the Estonian and Russian media so that people can understand the nature of this law. But before we start setting out any concrete plans, we will wait for the Riigikogu procedure. We first want to know that the Riigikogu has adopted this law. As the classics say, before the eggs and then scoot. Let's wait till we lay eggs and then we'll start cuckooing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U110	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U111	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! If there are fewer than ten apartments in the house, the requirement of forced formation of the cooperative does not extend to this house. At the same time, there are also many problems with these houses. For example, more than half of the apartments may be owned by one person. After all, the collection of the repair fund's money is not mandatory, while the houses are falling apart. Everyone is responsible for their own part of the property, but the apartments can be on top of each other, and what if, for example, the lower apartment is not interested in repairing the house? Shouldn't the management of these small houses be more regulated, however, rather than applying these rules only to large houses? There are problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U112	Thank you. In seeking an agreement on whom and how this law should be applied, it was necessary to find a rather large share with the association of housing associations. At the same time, the law must be flexible enough. Let us admit that in a house with two, three or four apartments the formation of a cooperative is not necessarily necessary on the basis of the statutes. People come to an agreement with each other and are able to find all the necessary service providers together. Pulling the border, whether it's a house with six, eight, ten or twelve apartments, is, yes, a discretionary decision, a cognitive decision. On the basis of the feedback received from the Association of Housing Cooperatives, this ten apartments is a reasonable limit. If it is considered necessary to bring this line down, it is a matter of debate. We have just proposed to maintain flexibility in the day-to-day management of small apartment buildings.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U113	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U114	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I have a further question on the question of Mr Borodich concerning information. I remember one or even two laws that dealt with the social sphere, where this cackling budget was completely in and the plan was in when the law was adopted. But when we talk about about a million people affected by this law, a third of them are Russian-speaking, who barely understand this law very clearly and unambiguously. The brochures of the Association of Housing Associations or any leaflets are probably not enough here either. However, could the Ministry not decide that it should be translated into Russian in the case of one law that concerns almost every person in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U115	Thank you. We can be quite sure that someone will translate this law into Russian. As far as the general logic of translation is concerned, there are very many laws in Estonia that concern almost all people. We're taking traffic laws. We're all in traffic every day. I would not like to mention any law in which we should make an exception, but we are based on general logic. As I said, we can be quite sure that this law will be translated into Russian, the question is who will do it. If, for example, the Association of Housing Associations does so on its own initiative, we do not mind. We look at the translation of laws in a coherent way. As far as information is concerned, we naturally use all the possibilities, including the media available in Estonia, to provide information to people speaking in Russian. But there are also a lot of people speaking other languages in Estonia who are the owners of the apartment. Everyone must be in an equal position. The official language used in Estonia is Estonian. The legal text with the digital stamp of the Act will be available in Estonian in the Official Journal of the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U116	Minister, thank you for your answers. No further questions. Siim Kabritsa, Member of the Legal Committee of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed this draft at its meeting on 23 September. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, his advisor Madis Timpson, and Indrek Niklus, Head of the Department of Private Law of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice and Vaike Murumets, also took part in the discussion of the 462 draft Law on Apartment Ownership and Housing Cooperatives Act. The Minister of Justice and Advisor Vaike Murumets gave an overview of the draft Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act. It was clarified that this draft law codifies the ownership of apartments, whereby the two existing laws, the Apartment Ownership Act and the Housing Cooperatives Act are replaced by a single law which regulates all legal relationships relating to the ownership of apartments. The representatives of the Ministry of Justice replied to the questions raised at the hearing. The Minister has already mentioned that nearly a million people are affected by the draft law. More specifically, there are 477000 apartment property and 21400 apartment property properties in Estonia. As of 2012, there were 9500 housing associations in Estonia, which means that 45% of the cases have a housing association and 55% of the cases have a form of governance in the housing owners' co-operative. A little bit of the bill. According to the draft law, all apartment ownership will be managed in the form of an independent legal entity, i.e. a building management company, which will be created when the law enters into force, together with the creation of apartment property. For existing apartment property, which will be managed in the form of a joint arrangement of apartment owners until the new law enters into force, the state will set up the building management company itself. As a result of the proposed reform, the confusion that has now arisen with regard to the joint ownership of the apartment owners and its manager will disappear. When concluding a contract with third parties, such as the building company that is renovating the house, the current form of the housing ownership joint is confusing. It is not clear with whom the contract is concluded, whether the party to the contract is the manager or the owners of the dwelling, and how to determine whether the person who presents himself as the ruler can enter into the contract at all. The automatically formed building cooperative provided by the draft could be a much clearer contract partner. Compared to the current law, the activities of the building management company will also be more transparent for the owner of the dwelling. Each owner of a dwelling is expressly entitled to receive information from the management board about the activities of the building management company and to consult the documents of the building management company. The principles of responsibility of the owner of the dwelling as the co-owner of the building change somewhat. According to the draft law, in the event of a threat arising from a building being realised, for example, as previously mentioned, if the damage has been caused by a crashed ice cone, a claim for compensation must be made against the building management company. As regards the debt of management costs, the situation becomes clearer for all parties: the owner of the dwelling, the cooperative and the mortgage holder. The housing company's claim against the owner of the dwelling is guaranteed by a statutory lien, which allows the building company to make its claim pay successfully even if the property is secured by a mortgage that exceeds its value. At the same time, the amount of the pledge right of the building association is clearly limited, unlike the amount of the debt of the previous owner currently transferred to the buyer. A long enough time is planned for the law to enter into force. The bill proposes that the law should enter into force on 1 January 2018 so that all owners of the apartment can have sufficient information and be able to familiarise themselves with the bill. The idea is good, let's hope it reaches adoption. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 15 October, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 29 October. Siim Kabrits was appointed rapporteur. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U118	Thank you. There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I open negotiations and ask Margus Hanson, member of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party for a speech chair in the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-15_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There is no doubt that the draft law on apartment ownership and housing associations is an important and anticipated draft. This is not just because it affects a million people, or two thirds of the Estonian population. In Estonia, there are approximately 21000 apartment property properties and some 470000 apartment property. However, the approximate number of housing cooperatives is currently less than 10,000. In residential buildings with a much smaller number of apartments, therefore, housing associations have not been formed; they operate largely as co-operatives if they operate in any form of formalised cooperation at all. The new law also creates a specific legal framework for these apartment buildings; they will operate as housing associations, although with certain peculiarities that we have heard about here today. We have also heard here today that the draft law has been long and thoroughly prepared, that there have been several rounds of coordination, that social partners have been involved. A number of amendments have been made to the draft on this route. The support group of housing cooperatives in the Riigikogu has been monitoring and forcefully influencing the development of this bill for almost two years, inviting the parties around the table to discuss the provisions of the bill. Initially, housing associations had many counter-arguments to the draft approach, which they could vocally express at the so-called inclusion conference organised in February 2012 in the Riigikogu conference hall. It can be said that positions have approached, although 67 amendments were received from the Estonian Association of Apartment Cooperatives to the third round of coordination held in spring, some of which were also taken into account. A number of important improvements have been made to the draft law compared to the original one, so the benefits of involving the various parties have increased. The draft law makes it more modern the operating frameworks of housing associations, the law becomes simpler and clearer, and people, owners of apartments, do not have to seek their rights in different laws and judicial decisions. The quintessence of these rights and obligations is now concentrated on the 94th and 40th pages of one of the laws. A more than 120-page explanatory memorandum has been added to the draft law, to which additional annexes have been added. First of all, as compared to the current law, the amendments proposed in the draft act point out that, as of January 2018, all housing associations and cooperative liabilities will be entered in the public register of housing associations. This gives the buyer, for example, the opportunity to obtain information from public sources and comfortably about the cooperative's obligations when buying a dwelling. The right to pledge a housing association is another new approach to this law. This should protect the building management company and its members from paying the debts of some of its co-owners, for example if the mortgage on the debt dwelling is for the benefit of the financial institution and the dwelling is forced to be realised. I would like to acknowledge the willingness of financial institutions to resolve this problem, which expropriation to cover debts is, after all, a reality. An important addition to the draft is clearer regulation of decision-making, including rules on borrowing and updating the building, as well as the obligation for the owner of the dwelling to heat the dwelling. This has been considered a very important innovation by the Association of Housing Associations. Although this obligation can be deduced from the existing law, it is now explicitly stated. Three more minutes, please!
