ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Let's start our final spring season briefing. Please, let's do the presence check first! 40 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, 61 missing. In today's Question Time, the following members of the Government will take part in the duties of Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, since Riigikogu member Rainer Vakra has announced that he does not want to ask a question registered for Question Time today, I would like to begin with a question that has been proposed by my colleague, Mailis Reps. As Mr Reps is not in the Chamber either, the question of Mr Allik must be started with the question of the Minister for Education and Science, Jaak Aavikkool. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U3	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. According to the upper secondary school reform you are promoting, municipalities located outside Tallinn and Tartu are divided into four groups regarding the financing of upper secondary school education. Firstly, municipalities to which the state has set up a so-called "pure state secondary school" and is paying for the entire upper secondary school education, thereby giving a gift of about a quarter of a million euros each year to the municipality's budget in terms of schooling. Secondly, municipalities that are in line for this gift within six years and may lose about two million euros compared to the neighbouring county centre in six years. Thirdly, municipalities wishing to maintain a full cycle school and having to pay for the house expenses, support services and, where appropriate, teacher's wage supplements themselves forever. Fourthly, municipalities where upper secondary school education is not provided and who have to pay a contribution for young people entering municipal secondary school, but not for those going to state secondary school. The Chief Executive of the Cities Association, Võigemast, called this situation unfair competition. Does the Ministry see problems here and look for solutions or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U4	Good questioner! The situation you described has arisen under the current Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. As we know, Estonia currently has state secondary schools, municipal secondary schools and private secondary schools. According to the current law, if a student living in the territory of a local government goes to a state secondary school, the local government does not have to give him money to cover the running costs of the school. At the same time, the Riigikogu has considered it reasonable that, in the case of pupils moving between municipalities and going to private schools, the local government is also obliged to bear the running costs of the school in relation to the fact that one student is studying in the territory of another local government or in a private school. The amendments to the basic school and upper secondary school law prepared in this section, which you will discuss, will not change anything. We have negotiated with local governments when establishing a state gymnasium in Viljandi and even reached an agreement with the city of Viljandi that the city of Viljandi will cover the expenses of young people entering the state gymnasium. However, serious difficulties have arisen in practical life and we are currently negotiating constructively with the city of Viljandi in order to abolish such regulation at the request of the city in Viljandi state gymnasium. I believe that the current regulation of the law could continue to apply in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U5	Please, Mr Allik, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U6	Mr. Minister! I understand the Ministry doesn't see any problem in this procedure. But for that, I'll keep asking. Your party partner, Minister Kisler, is currently promoting administrative reform based on attraction centres. You can understand that according to this model, there are about 50 municipalities in Estonia. The upper secondary school reform you have initiated is based on a pure upper secondary school model with at least 252 students, so you want to lose secondary schools in most of the attraction centres promoted by Minister Kiisler. Don't you think you and your colleague are in the opposite direction? Or do you mean that you can also call a city where only basic education is provided?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U7	The planning of the school network has also taken place in reasonable and quite constructive cooperation with Regional Minister Siim Valmar Kiisler and, of course, we have also reviewed the design of the school network through the prism that concerns the model of the attraction centres. The view that every attraction centre should have a middle-level educational institution, or upper secondary school, and, in parallel, a vocational training institution of that level, is obviously not justified. In particular, in the light of this reform, which has been carried out in respect of vocational training institutions, the number of vocational schools has been consistently around 30 in recent times, we can see that the school providing secondary education does not have to be in all areas, in every settlement or probably in every centre of attraction, which we estimate to be 50 to 60 in terms of quality education and coverage of the entire territory of the country. Therefore, I do not think that the attraction centres should link one-to-one with the existence of state secondary school, or even upper secondary school at all, if necessary, especially with the force of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U8	Please, Mr Allik, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U9	Thank you, Minister, for your very clear position. However, in the previous Question Time, Mr Kiisler said, in answer to my question, that the funding of upper secondary schools should be based on an agreement between the state and the county councils on how many secondary schools remain in the county. All these remaining schools should be financed on an equal and school-based basis, not on the basis of the number or ownership of pupils. Why do you not support this position, but build the opposite model?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U10	Good questioner! Pretty much the opposite is artificial and completely unnecessary. As regards the financing of state secondary schools, this is based on the cost of maintaining the school, and there is a full consensus on this model. The funding of state secondary schools has not caused problems in the past, except that you have indicated that local authorities should also support state schools. We are of the opinion that it is not appropriate to maintain public schools by local authorities. As far as the more precise content of the financing model is concerned, as you know, the Riigikogu has proposed to separate the part of funding from this law, i.e. Article 82 of the PGS and, in this connection, the corresponding government regulation, so that there will certainly be a return to funding issues at both the Riigikogu and the government level. Now, in order to put an end to unnecessary speculation, which I must, unfortunately, read from the feathers of different people and hear from the mouth of different people, including, and especially in a preposterous form, some opposition representatives, I would point out that, of course, it is necessary to look for a solution for providing high-quality upper secondary school education not only in county centres. In Mulgimaa, for example, we need constructive cooperation to try to find a modus operandi for sustainable upper secondary school education, also along the Peipsi border and in many other regions. There is no reason to work on this and to intimidate people that these upper secondary schools will disappear from 1 September 2013 and some in 2014.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U11	Now the questions registered on the spot. Please, my colleague Andrus Saare!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U12	Minister, thank you very much. Yesterday, an article was published in the media by a former minister and a member of the current Committee on Culture. It should be a very competent and informed MP in the field of education. Among other things, he commented: "Today's senior teacher, who is at the same time the head of the class, will receive a hundred euros less after Aaviksoo's raise. ' Here's my question: how is it really going to be with the teacher's salary?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U13	I read it too, and I was embarrassed, to put it mildly. I think scaring people in vain is a practice that, even if there are political differences, should not be used. The amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act are aimed at addressing one important issue: improving the pay and working conditions of teachers. Indeed, it is now possible that the schoolmaster, through the head of school, will reduce the income of teachers in the new academic year. This practice must end. The teacher has the right to the same degree of certainty about his contract of employment and salary as any other person working under the contract of employment. Therefore, the central idea of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is to guarantee a guaranteed salary for all teachers so that it cannot be changed unilaterally when the academic year changes, not to mention the change in the calendar year. Resisting this change is incomprehensible to me; it certainly does not serve the interests of teachers. As far as the teacher's salary is concerned, it must be determined according to his contribution to the work and the performance of the work, and it must only be able to rise. If this is to be lifted quickly, we must agree jointly to allocate the corresponding amounts to the state budget. As far as the classrooms are concerned, the money will continue to be allocated for its reward. There is no limit to this, such as the current 5%, which may be increased at the discretion of the headmaster, with the work of the headmaster being remunerated as an additional task to an additional 35-hour working week, be it five hours or ten hours, whichever is considered necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U14	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U15	Mr. Minister! It has become the impression that during these years, when you have been the Minister of Education, there has been constant efforts to cut sums and internal redeployment, as well as to empower local governments. We remember that it was not at all long ago that the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act was passed in this Chamber, and now it has finally become understood and acted upon on the ground, but cardinal changes have already been launched again and you are denying previous positions on, for example, three courses of study and many other issues. Why are your views on the education system so volatile? And the other part of the question is why you no longer reach an agreement with anyone within the coalition. We know that there are currently no agreements on the financing model.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U16	The issue of education is complex and multifaceted, and it is difficult to make it clear in two minutes if there is no basic source information on such fundamental issues. But some of the false claims that were made on this issue, I am still trying to disprove. The funding for education has not decreased, but increased. Growth is when more money is allocated, and a reduction is when less money is allocated. If we keep up with the state budget, we will find that funding for education has increased and will continue to grow at least as long as this coalition remains. As far as responsibilities are concerned, I cannot mention any changes to the law that would have increased the responsibilities of local governments or schoolchildren during the period I was Minister of Education. If you refer to such changes, I ask you to be more specific so that I can answer you. As far as cooperation in the field of education is concerned within the coalition and not just within the coalition, it is very good. It is also very good that the funding section of the basic school and upper secondary school law was separated and returned to it in the autumn. This is very good because I believe that we will then achieve a greater consensus than has been the case so far. I also call on the opposition ambassadors to participate constructively in this work, just as they have constructively participated in the preparation of the draft law amending the law on basic school and upper secondary school, which you are going to second reading today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U17	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U18	Minister Aaviksoo! Last year, before the adoption of the state budget, you came up with a promise to raise teachers' salaries by 11%. It was a smaller amount than the teachers who threatened the strike asked, but still a pretty significant amount. However, in the state budget, the amount paid by teachers increased by only 4.7%. You said the rest of the salary increase would come from internal reserves. Now it's almost half the financial year. Where did the rest of the raise money come from to school?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U19	Good questioner, I've explained that too many times. But the teacher will have to explain until the message arrives and the understanding is clear. In view of the difficulties encountered by many local authorities in transferring public funds to private schools, the funds allocated to private schools in the financial year 2013 were allocated and transferred directly from the funds allocated to local authorities. So the numbers you compare don't have to match and can't match. I repeat once again that an increase of 11.4% was paid to all school teachers in the local government. We very much hope that the local authorities will pay out all this transferred money properly to the teachers. We know that some local authorities have not done so, but I know that they have promised to do so and are making efforts to do so. If that is true, by the end of the year, teachers' salaries will rise to 11.4% higher, as promised. In order to ensure that my complaint does not sound unfair to the local authorities who have already paid not only the entire state's money but also allocated additional money for teachers' salaries, I will give an example from here in Harjumaa. Not very wealthy, but Kernu municipality, which is educational, is able to pay more than EUR 300 extra for teachers, in addition to the EUR 800 allocated by the state, while the city of Tallinn, supported by more than EUR 1000 per teacher, has not paid more than EUR 100 per teacher.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U20	Please, Mr Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U21	Dear Minister, As a member of the Committee on Culture, I have been working on this draft and have been in this process for nearly seven months. I have noticed that there has been a beautiful great consensus between the walls of the Committee on Culture in the Riigikogu between the opposition and the coalition, and the discussions have been quite constructive. There is some information coming out of these walls, but it's as if it's dissipated and there's a lot more questions in the air. In recent days, when a point has been removed from the draft, which regulates changes in the financing model, there has been a growing suspicion that perhaps the Government of the Republic will make some major changes, rather than its own regulation on the financing of a major revolution. How do you comment on this statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U22	Thanks for asking. Indeed, as far as the distribution of money between schoolchildren is concerned, the Riigikogu has delegated quite a large margin of discretion to the government in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. A regulation to this effect has been adopted every year when prepared by the Ministry of Finance, and this will continue to be the case if § 82 of the current Act remains in force. However, I would like to assure you that it is my sincere wish and that of the government that the topic of funding be reopened in the autumn in the Riigikogu, including a discussion of the government's regulation on the basis of this same rule of law. There is certainly no basis for stories, as if the executive power or any of his individual branches were going to be behind the back of the Riigikogu, passing by the Riigikogu to issue regulations that would seriously undermine the funding of local governments as schoolkeepers. Once again: the government will probably be able to complete the draft regulation even before the big summer vacation, at least one that could be discussed both in Parliament and in the government. I would certainly like to come back to this, because everything also needs to be discussed with local authorities as partners. True, we all understand that the local elections on 20 October this year create an atmosphere that may complicate the debate, but this certainly cannot lead to decisions being taken secretly, behind the back of the Riigikogu. So this debate is obviously ahead of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U23	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U24	Minister, thank you very much. Today we are going to discuss the Education Act at length in this Chamber, and I have tried to get a better picture of these things. My picture is that I would understand you as a minister if you were a minister of the Reform Party. Then I'd understand you'd come to this hall with this kind of law. But since you are the Minister of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance, I would expect you to have a law that takes more account of the entire nation. The current law tends more towards elite schools and disabled children are forgotten or, if not forgotten, the attention and care that have been given to them so far will be lost. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U25	Good questioner! Such a high style, with a bright example of an excellent weekly newspaper in Midweek, probably does not help us to reach a constructively very far. Of course, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, drawn up by the Minister of Education and Science in the IRL ranks, takes into account the programme interests of the IRL as well as the objectives of the Coalition. This certainly also corresponds to the understanding that Estonia's educational public thinks is right and supported by the Education Forum. It is also supported by the transferred education strategy, which is based on the broadest-ranking educational public through a cooperative body and by a large number of partners. So your complaint and the artificial confrontation between the IRL and the Reform Party is inappropriate, and it certainly will not help us get on. Once again, the law deals with specific regulations and changes what it changes. It increases public support for children with special educational needs and for children with disabilities. Increases support rather than stopping it or reducing it compared to the current law. If we come to the Riigikogu with a financial provision, there is a proposal to increase this support. Ladies and gentlemen, let us stick to the facts and specific texts. Let's not cause any trouble, because substantive decisions need to be made in a very calm manner, considering the pros and cons that are involved in all decisions and which are running firmly not along the borders of the parties, but along the lines of how well we understand the real needs and problems of Estonian education and are able to provide solutions to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U26	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for Education and Science. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U27	I should actually follow the rules of procedure and home, and it says that if the person whose turn is to ask is not in the hall, he falls out of line. But I'm in a good mood today, and I'm gonna ruin it a little bit. I think you'll allow it. I therefore allow my colleague, Mailis Reps, to put my question to the Minister for Education and Science, Jaak Aavikkool. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U28	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. I'm so sorry, but I didn't know that Mr Reinsalu wouldn't be asked. First of all, thank you for your very thorough answers! There are differences of opinion about listening to people's talk, but unfortunately we also have to read the provisions of the transferred bill. It is now clear that one of the proposals to amend the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act came from the Government of the Republic is to lose the function of school management. This is not found in the new draft, and after the draft has been adopted by the coalition's votes on Thursday, the basic school and upper secondary school law removes the classroom management. Consequently, my first question to you, Mr Minister, is that. Today, you were very eager to convince the radio listeners that the local authorities naturally wanted to continue to fund it. How's that for real?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U29	Good questioner! Classrooming has been in Estonian school, is now and will remain in the future. I have emphasised, I stress today and I will emphasise in the future that the class manager actually has more of this work than the current 10% premium covers. I think that this work should be appreciated and given opportunities for it. The new basic school and upper secondary school law creates this possibility. It seems to me that we have a different view of the issue of whether all the things that are born at school, whether in terms of teaching class guidance or square root, should be laid down in the law, or whether there should be something left to the schoolkeeper, school caretaker, teachers and the director, including in matters of school organisation. We have proposed a number of changes that broaden the ability of the head of school to take decisions, based primarily on the guidance of the school staff, but also on the guidance of the school manager. If we look at the PISA studies at international level, we will see that the countries where the school's decision-making powers are not curtailed but increased by legal restrictions will achieve more successful results, and that is the line of leadership that needs to be put in place. I would like to stress once again: the schoolmaster has the right to pay an extra fee to the teacher for class management, not only 10% of the salary, but also 20% or 30%, depending on the organisation of the school's work, but also the possibility to leave it in the main job, so that the overall burden is 35 hours and, for example, the number of contact hours, which are included in his instructions, is reduced by five or six hours.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U30	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U31	Indeed, we read the law differently. I would like to point out here that, as a schoolkeeper, local authorities certainly still have all the possibilities to interpret a number of provisions more useful to the teacher. So far, it has been right to start from 18 to 24 hours, but in most municipalities and schools, those respected schoolkeepers who are very energetically protected here have just started from a maximum of 24 hours. How do you expect to convince the teachers that the 35-hour limit that is now in force will not be applied to the same extent as now to be sent to class for 24 hours? What makes you think you can't send teachers to class for 35 hours from September 1st?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U32	There are schoolteachers and schoolmasters who set the norm for 24 hours, and they have schoolkeepers and schoolmasters who set it for 18 hours. The state is and will continue to rely on the relevant average of 21 hours, so much money will be allocated to the school and, within this amount, the Director will be able to recruit sufficient teachers to do the necessary work with a 21-hour load. If the organisation of work in one school is such that fewer teachers are employed there and their hourly load is greater than 21 hours, whether it be 22 or 24 or 25 hours, but this raises the pay of teachers, I believe that this kind of work does not jeopardise either the good quality of education or other educational objectives. Or, on the contrary, if the burden is to be reduced by equally reducing the average salary paid at school, it could also be up to the schoolkeeper. To be afraid that the director will tell the teacher that in the coming academic year you need to stand in front of the class for 35 hours is, in my opinion, inappropriate. Just as no hospital executive makes a surgeon operate 40 hours a week, so no schoolmaster puts a teacher in front of the class all the time. There could be so much faith in Estonian teachers and Estonian directors in this hall so that such threats would not go too far.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U33	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U34	We will certainly continue this discussion in this Chamber during the procedure of the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school, but the opposition in general does not want to threaten, but we are based on the facts. And the fact is that in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, the Estonian Educational Workers' Association carried out a very thorough study in financing the Ministry, which gave the teacher an average workload of over 50 hours. So it's not a threat, it's a real life. The teacher's workload is already very high and there is a possibility that it will continue to increase as the workload is no longer limited by law. It has certainly been interesting to follow your statements in the media about new funding bases and your big promises. Today you have also said that local authorities have all kinds of opportunities. The real picture is that in many municipalities, the number of children is shrinking and funding is also decreasing from the budget. What should municipalities do with all these obligations?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U35	The schoolkeeper is obliged to cover all the costs of the school. This law has been in force since the early 1990s and this principle has not been contested by opposition parties either. In this case, we must continue with the regulation that we have by allocating state subsidies for the activities provided for in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. It is true that the amendments to the funding clause of this law provide for some differences, but I would stress that, in the basic part, the changes that should start in this Chamber in the autumn are more in the direction of the state taking on additional commitments rather than putting them in the hands of local authorities. I also want to draw attention to one simple truth. If there are no children at all, then there is no need to support school houses anymore, and if there are half as little children as before, then there is a need to support more or less schools and more or less teachers are needed for this study. Of course, this is a superficial statement, and I understand that if one or two children are less in class, there is no need to shut down the whole school or let all the teachers go. But we must keep pace with time. Teachers and schools need to move to where there are children, but not the other way around, that we are channeling more and more money and other resources to where the number of children is falling. Therefore, the education organisation in Estonia needs to be modernised and the money should be directed to where there is a need for it, where there are students, where there are teachers and where quality education is expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U36	Let's start by asking questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U37	Minister, thank you very much. According to the new PGS, a state secondary school is established in each county. This puts the state municipal upper secondary schools in a completely unequal position, as state secondary schools are financed 100% by the state, local government of local government upper secondary schools. But we know that, financially, the local government cannot compete with the state in any way. I ask: Mr Minister, how can such inequalities be avoided?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U38	In my opinion, the state and local authorities should not compete in any area. The state and local authorities should cooperate. In that sense, I disagree with your party. As far as cooperation is concerned, it's on. The Ministry of Education and Research has been negotiating with a large number of municipalities over the last two years. As we know, we have entered into a cooperation agreement with many municipalities for the establishment of state secondary schools, and none of these local authorities have referred to the problem that you have raised. It seems to me that this is a product of specific political thinking and it is not about the lack of constructive cooperation between local government and the state in providing high-quality basic education. To date, agreements have been concluded with most county centres and other municipalities. We have also made proposals for larger cities. We will move forward in Tartu, we will move forward in Narva and I think that over the coming years we will step-by-step design a balanced upper secondary school network where both state and municipal secondary schools have a reasonable and mutually agreed role, just as the vocational training institutions managed by the state and local authorities are operating successfully together. Artificial confrontation between different schoolchildren, incitement to contention between them is not a move towards a solution. Moving towards the solution is cooperation and negotiation of ways forward, be it in Viljandi, Pärnu, Tartu, Haapsalu, Kuressaare, Tallinn or some other Estonian municipality. Once again, this cooperation is really happening.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U39	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U40	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In the last two years, the basic school and upper secondary school law changed quite a lot. In autumn, we also need to put the money in place. That's what my question is about what happened to this bill. Was nothing done, and how will this law change in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U41	I'm sorry, but I didn't get the bottom of this! The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act has not been amended during the current government. It is true that changes are currently taking place in this Chamber. As regards the steps to be taken, they do not create additional obligations for schools and therefore do not require additional funding. No new tasks will be assigned to schoolkeepers, the performance of which should be further financed. We will do this knowingly as long as the commitments are not fully covered by the money. We cannot be satisfied with teachers' salaries, either minimum or average wages. As long as the current responsibilities are not adequately covered by the money, it is neither practical nor reasonable to increase the responsibilities of schoolchildren. How can we tackle the problem of insufficient spending? I have told you in this Chamber and I have repeatedly written in various publications that the biggest problem in Estonian general education is that we spend too much money on tasks other than paying salaries to teachers. Teachers' salaries must be a priority in substance, and this is a priority in the Ministry of Education. We have directed the money to raise teachers' salaries and we will continue to direct them. Taking on additional tasks, no matter how good faith and will it is, is not helping us to eliminate this worst bottleneck now. I therefore expect support from the opposition for these changes, which would enable us to raise teachers' salaries more decisively. The amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is one step in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U42	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U43	Good minister! My question concerns the financing of education in comparison with other countries in the European Union. Estonia is doing well in the same way because we spend much more on education than the average. That's great! However, if we look at the internal proportions of education costs, the proportion of teachers' salaries is only 36%, 50% and more in other countries. What is your understanding of the draft that you are presenting to us in the autumn: are the proportions more European there or what is your plan in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U44	Good questioner, this ratio certainly needs to be increased and there are opportunities for this. True, these opportunities are only possible if the state cooperates with the schoolmaster. We can improve this relationship and this figure is already higher than the existing 36% in public schools. In the Ministry of Education and Research, we have looked at the structure of education costs and found that in many schools there are still quite a variety of specialists in addition to teachers. These include essential support professionals, who have received additional funding from the state to pay, including through the European Union's Structural Funds, but there are still staff members who have long since not been part of the school staff in developed countries. I would like to give some examples, without any criticism of specific occupations in Estonian school. When we visit schools in Finland, we do not see wardrobe aunts. My question is, how many librarians do you have? They say we don't have them. We have emergency flights. These are a few examples. This is also about auxiliary workers such as cleaners, and there are plenty of boiler hunters and other professionals in our schools who have a special contribution in the field of education. So once again: we do not need the efforts of the Ministry of Education and Research alone; progress must be made in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research and school managers in order to move towards the educational organisation of developed countries, particularly our northern neighbour, Finland.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U45	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U46	Dear Minister of Education, From your answers to earlier questions, you can see that you sincerely believe in educational self-regulation. However, the subject of this issue is school innovations, and I have a question for you about another reform of school innovation, i.e. the ongoing reform of higher education. One of the objectives of the reform is to extend the delegation of university competences to universities in order to compete with one another for students. There was a hope that this would improve the quality of learning and create better learning conditions. However, it has now emerged that competition from public universities has actually begun to narrow down the choices of young people. For example, I would like to mention the fact that the University of Tartu will let a person know that he has been admitted to the university, on 17 July and 19 July he will have to accept this place. At the same time, the University of Tallinn will not announce whether a person has been accepted until 25 July. How do you assess such competition? Do you think this is in line with students' interests?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U47	In order to comment on a particular case, it would take a little more to know than these facts quite quickly read out. In this respect, the higher education reform, or the law amending the university law and related laws, which was adopted here in the Riigikogu under the name of free higher education reform, has not changed anything. No university information has been received from the Ministry of Education and Research, or from the university as rector of my earlier activities, so I do not see any systemic and serious problem in this regard that would force the country to intervene at the level of the law. I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to one of the most worrying tendencies in the laws on education, and not just in the laws on this area. If you, good members of the Riigikogu, read the Estonian Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act or also the University Act and the Finnish Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, you will see the huge difference between their level of detail and the degree of regulation. In Finland, the law mainly provides for qualitative courses of action, executive power and the school level decides most of the substantive issues on the basis of good academic and administrative practice. We have overgrown bureaucratic regulations in law, sincerely believing that this is a better solution than trusting our people and educational institutions. I believe that we should change our practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U48	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U49	Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, the draft, which we are all expected to carry out at second reading here today, has caused quite a lot of problems in society. This morning, too, several school leaders from different counties have called me and wondered how we feel about it and how we behave. No one doubts that the low wages are the greatest troubles in our education system. But I want to ask you whether you are interested in how the proposed changes will affect national regional policy. And if you have any interest in this, please explain the possible consequences. You said you'd give the money where it is, who you'd give, where the students and teachers are. But what about the rest of Estonia's regions? It seems to me that IRL's talk of balanced regional development is hypocritical.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U50	One of your political predecessors has asked rhetorically: to whom does independence, to whom does the yoke? Your question is also in this area. You said that the proposed amendment to the basic school and upper secondary school law raises problems. That's your opinion. Our opinion is that it solves the problems that have accumulated in Estonian general education and decisively solves them in order to achieve the main objective of raising the pay of teachers, guaranteeing them secure working conditions and guaranteeing the survival of children but not least at close-to-home primary school. Our pointless and unsustainable efforts to maintain upper secondary schools wherever they were justified by the location of their own population are one of the main reasons why we are unable to maintain basic schools close to home, why we have closed them down in recent years. Upper secondary school really goes farther from home for many, but at the same time it has to come closer and stay closer to a elementary school close to home. The financing of small primary schools close to home needs to be increased relatively, just as good upper secondary schools need to be strengthened. There's every way to do that. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act has made proposals on this subject, and I hope that you will be able to see behind these rhetorical claims, which, for various reasons, but mostly about uncertainty and fear, which is too much in our school system, are being encouraged. There will be no loss of primary school near home; instead, we need to strengthen the primary school close to home. However, not every upper secondary school in the municipality and not even every village can be allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U51	Please, Mr Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U52	Good minister! Today after lunch, we are really processing the draft amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in this Chamber, but since you do not have the remote and cannot ask you any questions, I am doing so now. When you answered one question a few minutes ago, you said that our schools might not need librarians and boiler hunters. The content of the draft law is that very many topics relate to the general working hours of teachers, and so it can be assumed that teachers will start to burn the kettle in the schoolhouse in turn in the future, which is within the general working hours. But my question is about classleading. As in rural schools there are teachers in very many places with less than 1.0 loads at work, for example, 0.5 to 0.6 loads, they also have classes to run. In the future, if this task is included in the general period, can one class have several class leaders? Or if there's one teacher in class manager with 0.6 loads, half the tours will just be canceled for the kids?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U53	Whether your opinion on teachers' boiler hunters is on your conscience, let it be on your conscience! With regard to class management in small schools, I see no reason to prevent the Director from concluding not a contract of employment with a load of 0.5, but a contract of work with a load of 0.7 so that the class management work can fit in. Moreover, I would like the most to conclude a contract of employment with a load of 1.0 that could include both teaching and class training. In small schools, it is really difficult to ensure a full load and a range of ways must be sought to solve it. In particular, further training should help us to have more teachers in several subjects. This has been the case in all countries where, for demographic reasons, schools tend to be smaller. Teachers must be able to teach several subjects. This ensures their full income, as well as ensuring adequate quality, as even low-load substances are not taught by random people or by people with relatively modest qualifications. Even in small schools, full-time employment contracts strengthen the position of teacher and allow for more rational sharing of tasks, not vice versa. It is simply necessary to get rid of piece-on-work thinking, the idea that a teacher must receive an extra fee for each individual task or that everything must be agreed in a separate contract of employment. I do not see how it could be harder for everyone in school, on the contrary, we have new opportunities to reward teachers and conclude more stable employment contracts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U54	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U55	Since we still have time, please ask a question and tell who you want to put it to. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U56	Madam Chairman, my question is for Secretary of Defense Urmas Reinsalu. Good minister! You are the chairman of the IRL, and today we have an education law in the debate. Do you think the government did the right thing by taking out part of this funding package from the Education Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U57	The government, and certainly Parliament, is looking for the best way to ensure that the objectives set in modernising the basic school and upper secondary school law and the general education system are met. The key issue is the increase in teachers' salaries. The draft amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which we are discussing today, creates prerequisites for this wage increase, and the financing model gives certainty in view of the perspective of the next financial year. The government hasn't taken anything back. The government has found a way to move forward in a reasonable and peaceful way so that the pace chosen does not suffer, so that the substantive changes concerning the content of the educational organisation take effect from the next academic year and the financing model enters into force from the next financial year. That way, we can certainly keep the desired pace.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U58	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U59	I have a question for Secretary of Defense, Urmas Reinsalu. The Defence Union Act in force until 1 April of this year did not impose restrictions on membership of special organisations of the Defence Union on the basis of nationality. But now more than two and a half months have been in force, i.e. the Defence League Act, which entered into force on 1 April, states that only a 7 to 12-year-old Estonian citizen may be a young member. As Minister of Defence, are you satisfied that many boys have been expelled from the ranks of young eagles only because they are not citizens of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U60	I believe that Estonian citizenship is certainly a necessary prerequisite for the active members of the Defence League. As far as the patriotic activities of boys and girls are concerned, I am thinking about the organisations of the Defence League Homedaughters and Young Eagles, in their case, it is my view that we should not regulate it restrictively at the level of the law. This could remain the decision of the Defence League's own bodies. We've done a lot of work. The National Defence Committee has discussed the new law of the Defence League as a whole, which will help to implement our objectives in strengthening the Defence Union. One important objective of the National Defence Development Plan is that we grow membership of both the Defence League and the Defence Union. I believe that young people who wish to participate in national defence activities must be given this opportunity in accordance with the rules that the Defence League itself lays down. I support the fact that the Committee on National Defence is discussing this and provides for the possibility of keeping it within the competence of the Defence League itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U61	Please, Mr Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U62	Mr. Secretary of Defense! Member of the Reform Party Tõnis Kõiv and member of the Centre Party Mikhail Korb have proposed the idea that restrictions on the use of Lake Ülemiste could be reduced and that activities such as walking, running and cycling can be allowed to swim on the shore. In a situation where almost all of Tallinn's drinking water, namely more than 380000 consumers' drinking water, comes from Lake Ülemiste, this is, according to the Social Democrats, a highly unthinkable proposal. If we wanted to reduce this sanitary area, we should change the water law. The good Minister of Defence, who you are in the role of Prime Minister today, has the Reform Party, which is a coalition partner of the IRL, proposed to you to amend the Water Act so that the sanitary reserve of Lake Ülemiste is abolished and Lake Ülemiste is opened to the public? What does the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica think about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U63	This has not been a political debate. I myself am a drinker of drinking water in Tallinn, and I think that the water in Tallinn is drunk by members of different parties as well as by people with political preferences, which is why the starting point must actually be the quality of the water. As far as this proposal is concerned, the Health Board has assessed and taken the view that it does not support the opening of the lake bank for public use, as it increases the risk of water quality deterioration. This should be the starting point for these discussions. I categorically disagree with the older Mikhail Korb in the city centre, who thinks that since the quality of the water in Lake Ülemiste is influenced not only by possible swimming but also by air corridors and Järvevana road with a traffic junction, then the lake could be opened to people. I think it's an irresponsible angle of approach, so if there are any pollution risk factors anyway, it's just as if you don't care about any other risks. It is very important to ensure that people have the perfect quality of drinking water. I would remind you that if the risk of pollution increases, additional requirements must be introduced to clean up water and this will also increase the price of water.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U64	Now for the last question. Please, Mr Randver! I expect a brief question and a brief answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U65	Honourable Minister of Education and Science! My question concerns the next period of distribution of the European Union's structural resources and the PGS dealt with in the Riigikogu. We share a number of sums of money in advance in principle: the remuneration of support specialists comes from the structural resources of the European Union, and the building part of state secondary schools is resolved by structural means. Do you think it's right to share a bear's skin right now, which isn't yet? The distribution of structural resources has not yet been confirmed by the European Commission, let alone by our government. Do you think that's right?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U66	I'm sure I think it's right. After all, this is not a single legal link; it is a question of political attitudes and proposals. The government has been working on proposals for the allocation of structural funds over the coming period for several years. It is reasonable and appropriate that certain measures are envisaged. The fact that we have planned large sums of money to strengthen general education, to modernise the entire organisation of education, which is also the aim of the amendments to the basic school and upper secondary school law. Of course, I cannot assure you today that this is legally binding. The government has proposed, formed a position for feedback from the Commission. In the final conclusion, indeed, the European Union does not yet have a budget for the coming period. But as a political proposal, it is entirely appropriate. I think that makes sense. It is also reasonable that we discuss this with you here and report on what has been done, so you too are familiar with the proposals. Obviously, changes must be made not only in this, but also in the next composition of the government, all depending on the legal decisions to be taken. The government certainly wants to support the use of support specialists and the modernisation of education arrangements. I believe that our proposals will also be supported in Brussels and in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U67	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for asking questions. Thank you, Members of the Government, for answering your questions. Our briefing is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U68	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 18th working week Wednesday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U69	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Centre Party Group will have an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. This concerns the financing of the Haaberst Hospital of the Western Tallinn Central Hospital. At the beginning of this year, we discussed the issue in this Chamber. The problem was that an excellent modern care hospital built with European money, one of the best in Estonia, could not receive full funding from the Health Insurance Fund, and there was doubt as to whether the European Union's investments could be covered financially. There is now another fact. This European Union money, which should have been transferred to the Western Tallinn Central Hospital, has not yet been transferred EUR 700000; it is being held. The Ministry of Social Affairs claims the Ministry of Finance won't allow the transfer. It's a little crazy. It is claimed that there have been some irregularities in other hospitals, but no irregularities have been detected in the hospital in question and it is unclear why this money is being held up and when it will be delivered. In this regard, we have five questions. One is also involved in financing the health insurance fund; we want to know whether the situation has changed. We also ask the Minister for Social Affairs for an explanation of the European Union's contribution to the hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U70	Thank you. Please, Mr Tõnis Palts!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U71	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby hand over the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act. Sustainable industry tourism and activities related to the servicing and construction of summer homes are the most important activities in the islands of western Estonia. It is directly countered by the installation of large wind generators. The purpose of the draft law amending this law is to prohibit the installation of wind generators in Saaremaa, Hiiumaa, Vormsil and Muhu from a certain size. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U72	Thank you. Imre Sooäär, do you have a procedural question? Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U73	The procedural question is that the rapporteur did not specify who would submit the draft. The waitress usually says that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U74	Please, waitress back! Specify who the bill will be handed over from.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U75	Thank you, esteemed lump! In my speech, I used the word'ma'.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U76	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U77	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, I am handing over the draft law supplementing the state fee law. The Social Democrats want to reduce the state fee for the passenger car trailer from EUR 121 to EUR 25 by means of a transferable bill, in order to put an end to the situation where the registration fee for the trailer represents a whole quarter of its cost. In 2012, a trailer with a maximum mass of between 4063 tonnes and 3,5 tonnes was first registered. The Road Administration is forecasting the same volume of first registrations for this year, with a 3-4% increase in volume expected for next year. The state fee for registering a passenger car trailer is unreasonably high. The average price of a trailer sold in Estonia is 640 euros, so the state fee makes the trailer 24% more expensive. At the same time, the new car registration fee is on average 1% of the cost of acquiring it. In Finland, for example, the price of the average trailer is 750 euros and registration with the license plate costs the owner a maximum of 29 euros instead of our 121 euros. In Norway, registration of the trailer costs only EUR 5.5 and in Sweden EUR 6.3. Our draft will contribute both to improving road safety and to saving the environment by becoming a law. I call for this bill to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U78	Thank you. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U79	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to pass on the draft law amending the Waste Act. The draft is made up of four members of the Alliance of Democrats. We want to amend the three sections of the current Waste Act, in principle, so that waste can reach where they have to go by the most direct route. We know that the waste business has grown rapidly and that there is a lot of money going on there. In this respect, the Waste Act should make some adjustments so that all tick companies cannot come into this chain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U80	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U81	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I have a draft to amend the Local Government Organisation Act and the Local Government Associations Act. The purpose of the draft is to impose on local governments and associations of local authorities an obligation to develop the business environment and create jobs on their territory and to provide financial resources for this purpose. According to the Act of the Government of the Republic, issues of regional development of entrepreneurship are currently governed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The authors of the draft consider that the economic and regional policy objectives set out in Estonia are not sufficient if the development of the business environment is solely the responsibility of the state, especially in a situation where the country's general policy documents and national strategies emphasise the importance of developing the business environment at local and regional level. We all know that access to jobs is one of the most fundamental regional policy problems. Somehow, however, local authorities have so far been kept away from the topic of job creation and business development. The Socialist Bill offers a solution to this problem. According to the draft, local authorities will be obliged to work on the development of the business environment and job creation, while providing funding for this activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U82	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U83	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I have an inquiry to report to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. I am not going to introduce its contents at length, because almost the same question was answered on Monday in this Chamber of the Riigikogu by the honourable Minister of Justice, Mr Hanno Pevkur, who, out of five questions, was able to answer four questions and suggested that we turn to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, which we are doing. An inquiry concerns the digital signature given by another person and how one Estonian citizen can verify who, when and what gave a digital signature for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U84	Thank you very much. On behalf of the board, I have adopted four draft laws and two inquiries. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to accept them within three working days. If inquiries comply with the same law, I shall immediately forward them to the addressees. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no messages for you at the moment. Please, let's do the presence check! 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 21.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U85	Let us begin the debate on today's agenda items. Since yesterday we were in the middle of the first reading of the draft Act amending the National Family Benefits Act, 435 of the Estonian Centre Party Group, I would ask my colleague from the Riigikogu to continue to answer questions. Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We are often told that wiping a school bench is free of charge, that you go to school and that, as if you don't have to pay for school supplies, you don't have to pay for clothes, it's as if everything comes by itself. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U87	Thank you, dear questioner. A very good point indeed. If we are to undertake a constitution and our basic school and upper secondary school law, which we can discuss here today quite thoroughly, these documents, especially the Constitution, have been written to us that general education, which is provided by primary school, must be free of tuition. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act goes two or three more steps forward and points out that, apart from being subject to tuition fees, it must be free of charge. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act even states that a parent should not take money for workbooks and textbooks. The textbooks must be available free of charge to children. In the new draft, which you have certainly already seen since at least last night, it is also available to all members of the Riigikogu who are not members of the Cultural Commission, there is a provision that prohibits parents and schools from raising money for other educational activities and allows them to take money only for extracurricular activities. This is certainly a point that has caused quite a lot of anxiety and interesting discussions. The daily paper devoted itself to the whole front page of how no more tour and museum money could be collected in the future. This is certainly one provision that will live in school life. What's really necessary when you go to school, it depends a lot on school and family. There are a series of schools that write everything in very detail to a child, but there are also schools that leave quite a lot of parents to decide. One way or another, you have to spend the necessary time buying pencils, erasing gums, some art objects, change shoes, sports clothes, sports shoes, these are those without which a child cannot study according to the school curriculum. Various publications, as well as experts, have counted each year on the minimum amount to be spent so that the child can be sent to school in September. Looking at the end of August and September last year's reviews put together by schoolteachers and other school-related people, it can be seen that the minimum amount of money (it was also taken into account that some municipal schools have, for example, art items, guasches, brushes, watercolours, free of charge, other schools require that the parents themselves worry about them) is oriental at EUR 100. At the same time, parents are quite creative here. Parents have exchanged sports equipment and shoes, for example, and indoor footwear may not work in one season. There are also schools that hold quite a number of so-called school fairs, where you can get used clothes. Rather, it is that larger students offer their clothes to younger students, whether free of charge or for a small fee. Such solutions are offered by schools, but about EUR 100 must be taken into account by the parent. In order to make it a little easier for schools and parents to face these costs, we have a proposal, as I pointed out yesterday, that the minimum amount of support be equal to three times the rate of child benefit. We were based on the pre-crisis period, but of course in the future we should start to build on real minimum costs and gradually increase this amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U88	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U89	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress from the initiators! First of all, I would like to say that I very much support the draft that has been launched, and we also supported it with my colleague, Mr Pikhof, in the Committee on Social Affairs. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who also presented the position of the Government of the Republic at the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee, which was, of course, unsupportable, explained to us that it was local authorities who supported families. Unfortunately, not all local authorities are financially capable of supporting them. Indeed, when a person turns to a rural municipality or a city, there is a problem who has enough money left to distribute and to whom he does not. How do you feel that this additional obligation imposed on local governments in the run-up to the mass in Estonia will actually be fulfilled and people will be able to receive support from the local government?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U90	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, if we go back to this very long complex bill adopted in 2008, where, apart from the Victim Assistance Act, there was the Labour Market Services Act, the Drug Law and everything else, just to explain it was a bunch of cuts that the Minister of Social Affairs had to introduce here at the time and somehow justify it. The only reason that was raised was the crisis. Money had to be saved somewhere, and then it was found that the abolition of such grants paid once every year is the easiest solution. It was also said to be a temporary measure. As I pointed out yesterday, we are simply recalling the promise at that time to come to this issue, i.e. the restoration of school support or the re-granting of the pack, as soon as the economy has stabilised sufficiently and the country has opportunities. By believing the current Prime Minister, or at least we hope that we can believe him, it is well-founded to come back to school support. How have local authorities solved this issue? Surely there are these municipalities, or, let us say, without exception, all the municipalities are indeed trying to come to the aid of deeply distressed families. It's not always financial aid. There are various initiatives to help larger families, perhaps families in need of a little more support. They are trying to bring clothes, the questioner himself knows that social workers have been through churches to bring clothes even outside Estonia to those children who are going to school to make the child feel better, to have sports equipment and everything else necessary. In reality, however, support would be needed that would extend to the majority of parents. If we look at statistics, there are a number of children who do not live in absolute poverty, but in general poverty or are below the poverty line, we cannot say that we are talking only about recipients of income support or families who are quite close to applying for it. We are talking about a very large proportion of families, those who live far away from the centre, families where there is a single parent or where loans have been taken very ambitiously in their own time. There may be a wide range of situations that the local authority really sees. Parents who send their children to school and dare to say with a calm heart that this does not pose great difficulties to them, like to bring out the yellow press, but statistically there are very few. Some colleagues here have spoken very nicely about confidence, but when we look at the incomes and expenses of families, even those families in which parents receive the average close salary will inevitably become proportionally poorer than the rest of those in the same class. We have had a major dispute here several times whether the purpose of child benefits, family allowances, is to tackle poverty, to bring people out of poverty, or whether the aim is that the state actually recognises the very brave and important decision of this parent to expand his family and to worry about the second, third, fourth, fifth child that we will not leave a large family in poverty, etc. These are, in fact, issues that we can improve by means of general measures, and it is very important not to go into a discussion here, as the Prime Minister very often likes to say, that child support must be restricted because its children do not need it. There are still very, very few people in Estonia at the level of wages, such as politicians and perhaps other people in the district. The average parent needs this support very much and the cost of going to school is a considerable departure for the family, regardless of whether the child is going to first grade or is already in secondary school, these costs are very high in the family budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U91	Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U92	Thank you very much. According to the bill, which many really expect, the school allowance will be paid to a child aged 7 years by 1 October of the current year until he or she reaches 16 years of age. But what happens to those who go to school early and to those who are already 16 and a little more?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U93	Thank you. Good questioner! The reason why we pointed it out on 1 October is in the statistics we collected, and also in the fact that when money is paid out depending on the children's schooling, it is important that the data transferred to the information system also reach the pension institution, the local government offices and there are no errors here. Certainly, these children are important to emphasise this, who do not go to school at the age of seven, but need a school extension. It's a pretty thorough juniper that a parent has to go through, but it's possible. There are also parents whose child goes to school at the age of six. So a little flexibility is essential here, but the data will still come into the information system from the moment the child has started school since 1 September. Depending on the calendar year, 2 or 3 September may also enter into force on that date. In turn, the information system can issue these data to other agencies, in this case for the payment of family allowances to the relevant authorities. What is important here? If the child is older than 16 years of age and continues his or her studies, but at the same time he or she is very likely to have changed schools in the meantime, such as from primary school to upper secondary school or vocational education, then he or she will leave one information system and we will have to give him or her such a push to enter another system. At these moments, such as when a child has just entered upper secondary school, a situation may arise where the parent himself or herself has to bear these costs, in which case he or she will receive this money retroactively during the current year. However, since in general this system is automatic during school years and the child continues his or her studies within the scope of comprehensive school, he or she has no choice because the child has a duty to attend school and the parent has to guarantee it in accordance with our laws, we hope that this awkward situation will only occur on a few occasions throughout the entire school course of the child. It is justified to make no mistake. How does this system work? As far as possible, of course, automatically, but since automatic systems may not work perfectly from time to time, we have included in the bill that if a child does not go to school at the age of seven, for example at the age of six, or if there are any school exchanges, parents are obliged to inform the relevant institution about these matters in order to receive support on time. This is an additional guarantee that a parent, as an interested party, will give a signal if something has changed on the way to school. In the light of the electronic possibilities we have, parents should be able to apply for this support through the electronic system, and generally parents do so largely. On the other hand, there is such an opportunity at local government level that a person who is not on the Internet on a daily basis can apply with the help of a social worker. The system is flexible enough for every parent to get that money.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U94	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U95	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I just happened to talk to a very optimistic parent this morning, who said that what you're complaining about, I'm sorry about the expression, about the backpacking allowance, right now, according to the law, a lion's share of things is paid off, doesn't have to buy plastic line, paints, workbooks, and whatever else, doesn't have enough money for a pen and a school bag. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U96	Thank you. It is likely that this was not only a very optimistic parent, but also a rather well-paid parent, and it is very likely that his child will be lucky to go to a school where the schoolkeeper and the very intelligent management of the school have been able to provide these materials. It may also be that there is a child in this school whose parent is, for example, an importer of some educational material and has sold it at a cheaper price or even made a donation to the school. For parents in this hall, it is certainly not a strange matter that one parent wants to give a gift to the whole school, for example, brings colourful paper to the whole school, a very large amount of guasque colours, or something else, so that the parents of other children no longer need to reserve these things. But as a national system, the basic school and upper secondary school law has a guarantee that no money can be taken for textbooks, workbooks and worksheets. Moreover, due to the very long discussion of the opposition and coalition of the Committee on Culture, the new draft has specifically included, as a separate provision, that if there is money left over from textbooks, workbooks and worksheets, it can be used to provide other learning tools. Since this money is calculated per child and the classes use textbooks and workbooks in very different amounts, a large school with a hundred or more students can accumulate a quite considerable amount of money that buys art and sports goods or something else. There are also local authorities who have been very generous in providing educational resources. However, according to the data collected by the Ministry of Education, together with local authorities, four to five years ago, they have also been collected on parents' own initiative, the provision of professional or other material by schools in certain classes is not very good. Let me give you a simple example. Pretty recently, teachers of work education and technology approached the public and pointed out that several of the tools collected in public procurement a decade ago have survived their time or are quite at the border. The public, including the Riigikogu, was asked to pay attention to this in the following budgets precisely because our hopes and expectations in the preparation of the new curriculum were particularly focused on natural sciences and science. Of course, it concerns chemical classes, physics materials, the possibility of using new IT solutions. On the practical side, however, greater volumes of technology and work instruction have been highlighted. It is especially nice that all schools have developed this way, not just for boys or girls. Students are changing and often the boys' favourite is cooking and technology and work education is the favourite of very many girls. Thus, the average situation of educational resources at school requires additional attention, and according to the new curriculum, schools and school managers have been very, very thoroughly prescribed which instruments must be available at school. In this sense, the parent mentioned the matter, of course, spoke the truth, and perhaps his or her child is younger and has not yet been in contact with the subjects. One way or another, it was such an optimistic story. But the school manager's expectation of obtaining additional support from the state for school equipment from the following European or other resources is very high. It is certainly a pleasure that natural and precision sciences are specifically mentioned in this regard. Now the parent's expenses. I have already given examples of the cost of a parent here, such as cost of clothes, sports clothes. Many schools have a school form, and the school form can also be said to be very, very different. In general, schools have tried to meet here and put in place such a general set of rules, such as those mentioned in colour or saying that there must be dark pants, but not saying that the pants must be owned by this company or purchased at this price. This is due to parents' problems again. When a dozen years ago, very many schools brought back school formalities, which I personally very much support, they quickly realised that the ability of parents to provide children with a school form was, unfortunately, quite different. This made it much more flexible, for example a vest or a sweater or a blouse, skirt length, a color gamma, but no longer specifically defined at what price you have to buy a school form. Speaking of school expenses, you can certainly mention sports equipment. A major dispute is, for example, about ski equipment. I am sure you are aware of this too, and I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs has at least discussed this briefly. Ski lessons are provided for in the curriculum. We have very specific rules and expectations for physical education teachers and results. But, for example, ski equipment that could provide a whole class and give sports lessons to parents for free is in very few schools. Practically, this equipment has remained since the sports bases separated their sports equipment. This is one very clear problem that schools have highlighted. The second issue, which has been up for quite a while in budgetary disputes, is swimming lessons. In its time, the state allocated 2.3 million kroons for swimming lessons. In euros, this amount has changed a little, of course it has been added, but every year there is an argument as to whether the country will continue to have very little money ♪ it is in the Ministry of Culture's budget to get out of the swimming lessons. In fact, it disappears from the local government's income base so that it actually guarantees swimming lessons for very few students. These contradictions tend to mean that if the school does not have its own swimming pool, swimming lessons are not organised at all. The municipality pays for the swimming itself or it is the situation that at least some parents have to bear a considerable proportion of these costs themselves. So there's a whole lot of costs at school that a parent who's not familiar with the life of a school student may not have noticed. I gave you a brief overview of some of the problems here, but there's a lot more of them. If the application side of the curriculum is taken apart, there is an enormous amount of precepts made to the school manager and the school about what the educational resources must be, what the child's supply must be. If, because of cuts in the school's income base or other responsibilities, the school manager is not able to guarantee it, the school manager is not able to take this money anywhere, but at the same time the basic school and upper secondary school law states that a parent does not have to cover certain costs himself, then the question arises whether the quality of education is suffering or whether the state is trying to step by step to come to school and also to help parents, supplying their children with, for example, sports equipment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U97	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U98	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The universal family benefit system gives future parents the message that each child is valuable. What kind of message do you think future parents will receive from government cuts made at the expense of Estonian children?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U99	Thank you, good questioner! At this point, I do not even have to assume or think too much, because the statistics show changes. Ten years ago, the birth of a child was considered a great achievement and rightly highlighted. With much debate and opposition from the parties, including fair criticism, the law on parental pay was then passed, with quite positive consequences. Indeed, during the first year and a half, we saw that parents felt safer. There were many families whose two children had already grown up and who then decided to expand their families again after quite a difference. As the statistics confirm, many third and fourth children were born, and here parental pay certainly had a very clear effect. Today, these effects are largely behind us; people are familiar with the advantages and disadvantages of parental pay. The biggest minus that parents themselves have repeatedly pointed out, and on which quite in-depth studies have also been carried out, is that when parental pay ends, there will be virtually nothing left but this small child benefit. This ball has now been rolled back and forth and populistly and politically it is being tried to say that from there the responsibility of the state has largely ended. After that, the state only deals with all kinds of needs-based support, i.e. more specifically, the state has made it a priority that child support will increase in the future mostly for those who are in an outstanding disadvantage. If we look at the birth rate at the same time, cuts in the crisis years and a very large outflow of educated young women have led to a significant drop in birth rates, and this should be a cause for concern for all of us. What are the steps we should take together to keep our children from being born, so that parents can dare to take the risk and think about a bigger family, and this is a much more complex issue than introducing one or the other. In developing the development plan for children and families, target groups repeatedly and repeatedly pointed out that this must be a complex approach and a secure approach. It cannot be the case that a country has adopted one measure ten years ago, which is a very expensive measure, and it will continue to do so and the remaining steps will not be taken. There is no other measure except to put your child in kindergarten. Even if you find this kindergarten place, it'll cost your family a lot of money. This may lead to a situation where a young parent cannot work full - time with a small child in one way or another, because it is clear that if you take the child to the collective, he or she will get sick there quite quickly. So the solutions that have been proposed, the fact that a mansion and a kindergarten place are the only solution, are certainly not, to put it mildly, the signal that a parent is waiting for. A parent expects his child to be noticed and noticed through various steps. It is certainly important here to have school support, certainly child support, certainly school food, the provision of workbooks and many other steps. The confidence that the best teacher in front of a child's class, the confidence that your school will be preserved, the confidence that where I move, the child will receive the best education, that he will have the opportunity to develop his talents. Or, for example, the confidence that we are going to lively debate here in a few hours and relating to support services. It is very important to the parent that if his or her child needs logopedic support, he or she does not have to look for it at a support centre for his or her money, but knows that there is a very good specialist at school, that this help is guaranteed to him or her and that his or her child can continue his or her studies at a normal pace. These are all the signals that we really don't have to assume here, they're coming out of the research. These are the things a parent expects of the country. And when we look at all kinds of indicators in the Human Development Report, the most important thing is that these steps are continuous, permanent and do not change according to political circumstances. That if we made a promise when we made cuts that we would come back to this issue as soon as the economy stabilized, then we must come back to it, because parents are waiting, the country made a promise. These are the issues that will certainly affect the birth of children tomorrow and the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U100	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U101	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Four and a half years ago, the public school grant was stopped, but the parents still had reasonable expectations of receiving this money at least before September, and some municipalities began to allocate certain amounts from their budget. This means that the decision related to the school started to affect the local government's budget. An hour ago, my colleague Tuus-Laul asked the Minister why this was the case, and the Minister replied that such decisions, which have a negative impact on the budget, had not been taken. He has such a view that if he doesn't have any problems, he doesn't want to see local governments having problems. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U102	Thank you, good questioner! If we come to a dispute that has also been brought before the Supreme Court by several local government representative organisations, a number of which have also been brought to court with the state on a very, very large number of issues, including education, the first question is what the Supreme Court ordered the Riigikogu to discuss in 2010: what level of services are covered by the funds allocated to local governments, what are the state's expectations for the quality and content of these services and what are the services and activities for which the state should provide additional money if it considers that they are not guaranteed. This is where the biggest mess is right now. These problems have also been quite contradictoryly resolved in court decisions at different levels, which shows that it is very, very difficult to interpret whether or not there is already a cover in the municipal budget for one or the other. Take, for example, the same school allowance. The country lost it by making cuts, the parents expecting someone to come to help at the beginning of September. Since this huge package of cuts was adopted, say, in a rather confusing situation and not in the media, which was finally cut off, it came quite unexpectedly to a very large number of parents that there was no more country support. It is natural that those in need then turned to the local government. After all, the fact that a person in a situation where he or she cannot handle himself may ask the local government for support is logically recorded in the entire social system. The question now is whether there have been additional responsibilities for the local government that the Minister should accept in Question Time, in an open microphone or in another place. This is very difficult to establish, because these are the cases in which contradictions and problems of proof have arisen in court. For example, the same basic school and upper secondary school law of 2010 imposed a number of obligations on the school holder. One of the details was that the Riigikogu wrote in advance in detail on which level and how the problem of special needs must be dealt with, i.e. when there is a special educational need, whether there is a particularly talented child or whether it needs some support, how the school must then provide support for this young person. When we dealt with it here in the Riigikogu, we received several letters from local governments and local government associations, both from the Cities Association and from the Association of Rural Municipalities, we also received calculations that such a series of specified support services in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act means. Consequently, in 2010 the negotiations between the Government of the Republic and the representative associations of local governments formulated additional points concerning the financing of the clarifications and additional obligations resulting from the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. "Social Pedagog" was added to the designation. While logos and special pedagogues had been involved in support services until then, it was now written as an obligation that there should also be a social pedagogue. The calculation was that a school psychologist must be in need or service-based school. Whether he is permanently present at school, works there for certain hours or is bought into this service, was given a schoolkeeper's decision. Now the point of dispute. Tallinn City Council decided that it wanted additional money to meet this requirement, and this decision went through to Harju County Court. But a very clear line of court, referring back to the Supreme Court decision of 2010, could not be drawn. It was pointed out that the services that have already been covered by the funds allocated to local governments have not actually been analysed, despite the Supreme Court's decision and the proposal to thoroughly analyse them in the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic. What did it involve? This was accompanied by a situation where, in principle, it was agreed that the social pedagogue was an additional service. In the case of the rest, there was room for interpretation and it was said that if the municipality claims that it does not have sufficient resources to fulfil its obligations, it would have to prove it. If we look at the funding of education and the social system, there are indeed places that have not been discussed clearly. I very much hope that today's Minister's statement that we will come back to funding just to § 82 in the autumn means that we will then agree very clearly on the responsibility of the local government, where there is the responsibility of the state and where the resources are needed and where we will allocate the money. In the Committee on Culture, there was still a disagreement today that if the local government is allocated money only for minimum teachers' salaries, school management and educational resources and school food, then it is right to take it in such a way that the additional obligation imposed in 2010 has been withdrawn. That is one reason why it was considered that this issue should be brought back to us in the autumn. It is clear that if the state reduces certain subsidies, but at the same time, according to the logic of the social system, it is assumed that the person in need will turn to the local government, the question arises as to where the local government should get the money if nothing is actually foreseen for him other than income support funds. The local government is in quite a difficult situation here because, in addition to the cuts, the changes in the field of education impose on the local government such things as the parent can require of him. At the same time, there is no allocation of funds for this purpose and the coalition is also not interested in restoring the revenue base before the local government cuts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U103	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U104	Thank you, Madam President. Good bill starter! I have a very substantive question about § 1 (6) which amends § 25 (1). It says here that no family benefits are paid to a child who is imprisoned, arrested or arrested in a detention facility. I understand child benefit to some extent, parents may not have costs while the child is on national food. But if we take the example of Järvamaa, where the child was shocked, which ends on September 15th, do we not punish him as if he or she did not receive this so-called "panish grant" and is in a worse situation than a decent child? Can you explain a little bit about how to interpret this point?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U105	Thank you. First of all, with regard to the example that he will leave the detention facility on 15 September. Since the data on which the calculation is based is removed from the EHIS as of 1 October, this example does not qualify under this provision and this child is indeed not being punished. What is the point of this point? First of all, it is about a child without parental care who is already in the state's care and receives all the cover from the state. But as I'm sure you know very well, it's not so easy today, whether it's parental or not. There are several steps in between. It may be that you do not raise a child directly, the child has been deprived of your direct support, but at the same time you have a certain responsibility. For example, some financial activity, in a very simple way, for example, checking a child's bank account remains on you. Unfortunately, children without parental care have quite often had such cases that the court fails to make the relevant comments and ultimately, for example, the cost of life does not reach the child, since in the meantime there is a so-called parent who has broken it down. Therefore, the condition that the child is already dependent on the state and is constantly living in a welfare institution or a school for students with special needs is added here. As regards a child who is in detention, detention or custody, we still have a system that sends to special schools by court order and the child may not be there for a whole school year. Here we must certainly look at how this situation was resolved before the cuts between the first and second readings, because the wording has been taken from the law that was in force before 2010. If we take the example of Puiatu or Kaagvere, the system was likely to be such that the statistics were made as of 1 October, and if the child came into the school system later, for example in January, he was no longer paid the allowance. In general, our social system is not so flexible that it takes into account the sudden additional costs incurred during the school year. It is a personal question when it comes to short - term shock and it can be hoped that this young person will continue his studies. For example, if, according to the EHIS, a young person is studying somewhere and he is away for three months, he has been good and wise enough, and either a teacher, guardian, headmaster or someone else has made a remark that he is temporarily away from that time, then, of course, children's benefits will also extend to him. However, if he is constantly away or studying long-term in, for example, a special school, he does not really benefit from these benefits. The assumption is that the state will then bear all the costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U106	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U107	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I may be the fifteenth to ask you this question, but I'm still asking to remind you. When very severe cuts were made during the economic crisis, the government rhetoric was that they were temporary, they needed to be done because of the economic crisis and for the euro. Okay, that time's over. We came up with our bill. On the one hand, as you said, let us remind you that there was such a promise, on the other hand, there is also the hope that the crisis in Estonia is over, so the rhetoric of the government sounds today. How do you assess whether this year's budget for the coming year is the time to come up seriously with such a question? Secondly, this crisis affected Europe, the social economy model currently stands, maybe it is already more important...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U108	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U109	Thank you. If you start with the second half of your question and the European situation, then surely Europe has been using very different solutions in the years of crisis. Of course, at the moment of the crisis, countries were also in very, very different situations, precisely as a result of whether or not they needed side-by-side help to emerge from the crisis. Countries that needed help to emerge from the crisis were inevitably in a situation where they were given many more cuts, much larger structural changes. However, if you look at the situation after the cuts, in these helping countries, the subsidies are only much higher than the small EUR 28 that we are discussing today. So despite cuts, the average support structure for European welfare society is significantly stronger for families with children. What is most dangerous about Estonia's economic cuts and the whole crisis climate, and why we have returned to family benefits and the package support so many times and we will certainly come again, is that signal. This is the same thing that has been highlighted very much last week for restoring confidence in the pension system, that when the next cut comes, it gives confidence that there will be no cuts on pensions and family benefits again. This signal has not been a source of security or security for society. There are some structures in our society where the process is very long-term, and of course pension funds, the pension insurance system is one of those where there must be confidence. But it's a family decision of the same length. Especially when it comes to the birth of several children, there is a very serious discussion at home about how this affects the situation in the family, what are the security mechanisms, how we ensure that the child is all needed for development. If we look at the development plan for children and families, our goal is still to have several children in the family, not just one child. In these difficult times, when the family needs the support most, such cuts are very damaging. When, in boomtime or in a very good economic situation, when everyone got better, no salary was raised, at least there were extra payments, 13-14 wages were paid or there were other additional bonuses. However, when entrepreneurs started to cut, when the country started to save from all sides, the country also came to family benefits, and this was actually the moment when the family needed the most state support. This is perhaps the most dangerous signal that we gave in our decisions at the time. If, now that the economy has stabilised, some say that the crisis is behind us, not even at the pre-crisis level, we are giving a very clear message to society that it was actually always the goal of cutting back on family benefits and that neither children nor poverty at national level will be very noticeable. Here, our very good lights are the research of socialists, as well as the annual human development report, which reminds us that the situation is not good.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U110	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You have so far dealt with the subject very thoroughly, and I am really pleased about that. If we look at § 1 of the State Family Benefits Act, it states that the purpose of the State Family Benefits Act is to provide families with children with partial reimbursement of the costs of caring for, raising and studying their children. That's where the question arises. The government coalition has come up with the idea of introducing needs-based family support. According to my information, this is how I think you feel, too, and the majority of Estonian society thinks the same way that you have to go to school. Is there no need to receive school support that the government no longer supports such a very important and good draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U112	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, as far as family allowances are concerned, we certainly agree here. At the beginning of the need-based child benefit, however, this name was a semi-synthesis of the implementation background. We heard a long statement yesterday from the rapporteur of the Social Affairs Committee, former Minister of Social Affairs, Maret Maripuu, about how he is convinced that this will actually apply from 1 July, despite the need for IT improvements. A few years ago, we heard that child support is, according to our Prime Minister's estimates, a way to get money off the plane, and his children do not need it. As an example of himself, he said that there are very many children who should not actually receive it. Despite the way the coalition explains the matter now, it is possible to read clearly from a very large number of articles and opinions that the coalition aims to eliminate child support as universal support. If you look at later reasons, they have tried to explain that there is no point in giving child support to everyone, but for those who need more help, it needs to be significantly increased. The reality was, of course, a little different, and they wanted to save it, after all, during the time of the harvest, they were desperately looking for ways to cut off. When the issue of child support caused a great deal of public disapproval, other points of reduction were found, and one option was to cut family allowances. How the principle of the necessity of child support and, say, the fight against poverty will actually work, we will see that after 1 July. My modest opinion, and unfortunately it is not just my opinion, is clearly that these nine euros will not bring anyone out of deep poverty. In addition, the application system is rather clumsy, which can cause an uproar in many of these nine euro claims, so the measure will not actually be used. Does the implementation of needs-based support in any way apologise for not coming back to school support? Certainly not, they are completely different grants. One is intended to cover the monthly costs of children, the other is intended to alleviate the costs of going to school directly. Although this amount is only EUR 28, it certainly provides support for the family in rational use. And our goal is for him to stand by and give a signal. As I have said here many times, we can always come back to increasing this amount. But now your question is that if families, going to school and other things related to this area are clearly reflected in the objective pursued by the law and, at the same time, there is no school leaving allowance in the law, is that justified in any way? Absolutely not. In time, when the entire social system was being built up, several types of benefits were planned for different periods of life, from birth to funerals, in the meantime school trips and other such events. Again, they only work when they're complex. The fact that the child goes to school in August-September and does not provide for an additional allowance for going to school does not mean that the costs of the rest of the children will be reduced in any way this month. The child benefit is an additional monthly allowance to cover some of the costs, of course, if it were a small amount, considerably higher than the current EUR 19; however, the school leave allowance is only a separate allowance for this purpose. Sooner or later, public pressure will certainly grow so high that if not today's coalition, then surely tomorrow's coalition will have to come back to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U113	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I want to ask you a little about the relationship between our births and our deaths during the discussion of this bill. It seems to me that the situation in the country is the same as in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. The concert is great and the presentations are great, but we'll be there too late, we'll leave too soon, and so there'll be too few of us on the spot at the right moment. Various studies have shown that about a quarter of Estonian families are still afraid of their economic situation. How do you think this draft, which we are discussing today, could have any positive effect, for example, on our birth rate?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U114	Thank you, good questioner! Looking at this sad statistics, every day, if not every day, we hear more than a day on the coalition side of the coalition signals of how our economy is in perfect condition, in Europe everyone envys us and is studying in Estonia how to get out of the crisis so successfully. If we look at the reaction of our own people at the same time, there are at least a few members in almost every family who have packed their bags and left here. Of course, the Prime Minister has his answer, that it is very nice to have experience. The question is that if, in the years of the crisis, 2009 to 2010, according to our school statistics, the EHIS data, we could clearly see how we dealt more and more with the problem that the child had one or both parents working outside of Estonia, then unfortunately we now have to say that in the last two years of the school, 2012 and 2013 the children already studying have been reduced proportionally over Estonia. Perhaps this joyous experience, which has been recognized here, has now become a real departure. And the Prime Minister does not need to start talking again about the boat refugees of the Republic of Estonia, whom he still remembers that this is somehow reflected in statistics, or about the fact that a very large number of Soviet army troops have left after the beginning of the 1990s. We are talking about statistics for the last few years about children attending school who have gone along with their family. If the child has been in school outside Estonia for a long time, there is a very, very high likelihood that the family and the child will not return to Estonia. Therefore, the uncertainty that you have pointed out that a quarter of the population is not feeling the end of the crisis is not felt that their employer has become more confident, that the job is more secure, that the income and the real situation have somehow improved, completely understandable. Here you can recall a very long debate about our autumn, which culminated yesterday with new news that the price of electricity has made its record. Even the most skeptical economic theorists, not to mention members of the Riigikogu holding night sessions, whether they are opposition or coalition, failed to predict the price of electricity that high. This has a very clear impact on the income of families and, of course, it has a considerable impact on those families where children are growing. If there are more than one child, the family's electricity bills are also larger in proportion to the person, because in the end, families with children will inevitably need to do more laundry, children will need to do schoolwork and the lamp will probably burn a little longer, and in the autumn's long dark, only a few suns cannot be taken into account. It is clear that uncertainty about the future is caused by the whole economic crisis, but certainly also by the unwillingness to deal with the ever-increasing price of electricity. In fact, right here in the Riigikogu, we have the levers to slow down a little bit of the increase in the price of electricity, to ease a little bit of the rise in food prices, to ease it by lowering a few taxes, or by making some kind of exception. These are measures that have been and are being used in Europe and where we are, I do not know, among so-called strange countries or rather exceptional countries, where there is little such help for people and families. Whether family benefits are children's allowance or school allowance, warm school food or workbook money, it is a funeral allowance or income support, for example, raising the income tax-free minimum alone will help, it is quite difficult to predict. But if, by listing the measures, I already come to 10/15 measures and I mention further cuts in electricity excise duties, electricity fees, network charges When several individual measures are put together, the following statistics may no longer be the case, according to which a quarter of the population thinks that their situation will only get worse. Then there is some hope that, although these and these things are a cause for concern, that no economic development is yet being seen in Europe, we have the confidence that Estonia is doing well. Perhaps there will be some people in Estonia who believe, apart from the Prime Minister, that Estonia is really doing well.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U115	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U116	Thank you, good questioner! It can certainly help to have more than 60,000 children in their midst who go to school on September 1, with a happier face and a more confident feeling. But when we talk about absolute poverty, in reality, such families are in such a state that they do not put together a child's coat. Their financial situation is not such that they are able to buy the child new school equipment, sports clothes, change shoes. They will not be able to buy the child all the educational resources that we can read from the long lists on the school website and which the parent will have to reserve next September. How do these kids get their school equipment? There are local governments, there are various donations, there are very large actions. In the middle of August, we hear campaigns call for either donating money or buying some kind of funds, when it has been said that please bring such and such things and then put them in donation boxes. Last year there were two major campaigns that also reached the counties. There was a campaign called "Every kid's school bag." School support can lead to a situation where children living in absolute poverty do not have to wait for sandals used quite several times, but receive their personal shoes for more than several years, thanks to this support. And that would be a big deal! Can we really make someone happier with this support? There would certainly be many among the parents and children of 60000 children who would feel that this school year is starting positively, but we will not affect the poverty line with this one-off, once-a-year support.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U117	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! You spoke very thoroughly about how the draft law could affect Estonia's circumstances. We generally love to look for international parallels, and in this context I am very interested in comparison with neighbouring countries. Of course, I do not think that there is a need for drastic school allowances such as those in rich Sweden or Finland, but there is certainly an analogy or reference material with other neighbours. I mean even Latvia, which the honourable waitress should know very well, Lithuania, perhaps also Russia. Is there anything like it, or is the legal space there so different that you don't want to make comparisons?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U119	Thank you, good questioner! There have certainly been a lot of people in this remote and slightly higher government box who are very good at using examples from different countries to equip themselves with weapons and arguments at these moments if something is to be rejected or supported. The same is true of school support. Examples of countries where there are various lump-sum school allowances can be cited. There are systems where direct support is much more used, especially for risk families. This is, for example, the Nordic system, where schools are much better equipped with educational resources, which means that the list that parents get before they go to school is generally shorter in the Nordic countries than we do. There are countries where the tax system is quite different. We start from the Nordic countries and we get to the Netherlands and Belgium, where income tax is distributed in a significantly different way and the tasks are distributed in a different way. This means that there is much less chemistry over the division of responsibilities between the local government and the state, as income tax is distributed proportionally more to local authorities. Therefore, there are also expectations and expectations that the local authority will be able to carry out a much larger number of tasks. There are also considerable differences between countries in the levers of administrative reform that have been debated. If, by way of exception, our southern neighbour, Latvia, maybe, the rest of us are generally based on service orientation, they will first see that the whole local government structure is robust enough to provide all the services we expect from the local government. Is school support or other types of lump sum support used? Yes, they are. Quite common support, either in the case of going to first class, changing schools, moving, or in the case of some other family emergency. So there are exceptional subsidies, but there are also systemic subsidies. The debate about school-related costs goes on in a large number of countries precisely because free or paid education is not only an issue in Estonia. At the end of almost every summer, at the beginning of the school year, there is an interesting debate about how free we actually have basic education. One of the issues that is currently unresolved in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, but which I hope we will return to in the autumn, is, for example, compulsory literature. If, years ago, we were used to it, I believe that most of the books in this hall were used to it, that the books of compulsory literature could be taken either from their school library or at least from the city library, and they were all available, then unfortunately, this is no longer the case. Very often, literature is also mandatory, for example, that the parent must search for the bookstores on the list. Really, this is another cost that the state is not helping in any way. This is the responsibility of the local government, which often negotiates with publishers. The strangest thing is that some of the compulsory literature is so mysterious that it cannot be obtained in additional prints. We have not been able to discuss this issue of the provision of books to parents at the level of the Riigikogu to the end. The question of whether we can always offer solutions. What models can set an example for us? Rather, European examples would be used. Take child benefit, for example. I'm sure you heard several times during the child benefit debate from this remote control that, in Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, I think Slovenia and Slovakia were still mentioned, there are even smaller child benefits. At the same time, it was forgotten to say in which complex - whether it was universal child benefit - whether it was derived from income in any way. It is certainly not unknown to most members of the Riigikogu that this type of support is used very much in Finland and Sweden alone. There are a wide range of child benefits, one-off and multiple benefits, except that this money is recovered from the wealthier population with progressive income tax. This means that there is a universal system, but in that sense, he is need-based, that if your income exceeds a certain limit, your family will not actually gain access to it at the end of the day. The grants will be distributed, but the money will be collected in taxes afterwards. It's a taboo thing again. We can give examples here and say that there is such or different support in this or another country, but if we do not look at it in the context of the rest of the tax system, this is a completely pointless example. In the Netherlands, for example, a large number of such subsidies have been left at local government level. Although the State has prescribed a framework for the types of grants to be paid, in what amount, this is the place where local authorities are attracted and can vary greatly. Only the distributions of the income base and the tax system are, of course, significantly different from those of Estonia. It is therefore extremely difficult to give you an example.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U120	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U121	Thank you very much, good waitress, for a good and meaningful debate! I very much support the idea of restoring the support for the coast, and also the idea of starting somewhere. It is true that EUR 28 is a very small amount, considering the one-off costs of a child's school leaving, starting with school clothes and ending with all kinds of office supplies. I recently received a child's school form bill, which is four times as much as 28 euros. But, yeah, we should start somewhere. My question concerns education of interest. We are saying that the population in Estonia is shrinking, the birth rate is low. Against this background, it is important that families have confidence that children will be raised. Ranch aid will help a little, but as far as community education is concerned, what do you think would be the state's support for providing it to children?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U122	If we take the school grant, 28 euros is more of a start-up grant, it is not enough for an education of interest. The reason we were based on such a modest amount is that our main objective is to bring the bill back to this hall. Debates on how much and how to pay it, what are the possibilities of the state, will be a question of discussing the budgets for the coming years. First of all, it is our duty to restore this support as it was taken away in this Chamber in 2008, confirming that we will give it back as soon as the crisis is over. When it comes to recreational education, of course, this is one area where children are in an unequal situation. If we were to give much more support to recreational education at national level, this would certainly be one measure that would give parents confidence that their children will be cared for, that children will be given comprehensive opportunities. What are the solutions? The previous questioner asked for examples of Europe, I can bring more of them here. There are very different models everywhere in our neighbouring countries and perhaps also in Europe at large. One solution that I personally very much support is a combination of different measures. First of all, there's a certain interest in the school. In Sweden it is called a full-day school, and in France it is scheduled for Wednesday. On Wednesday in the middle of the week, there will be no general education, but an opportunity for increased interest. In the Netherlands, there are classes for this. So a lot of interest has been brought to school. The point is that parents sometimes find out where the child is talented and in what areas the child should develop. Although, a good parent thinks his successor is talented in all things. In general, however, it is vital that there are qualified people at school who are able to assess what someone is strong in watching their children. Now more countries have taken up the view that by about 10 or 11 years of age, the child could have established clear preferences. But how is it possible if the child has not tried different things, whether they are sports, art or music? This is the kind of free activity at school I see in the lifeline, even in small schools. This would give teachers a chance to get more workload, but of course it requires some further training. Today, for example, a physical education teacher is forced to run between three or four schools instead of using his well - educated skills in several circles in one school or training group, bringing together the children of that school around him. A chance like this would be fantastic. The first step would be this. Next, we take an interest education provided in sports, art and music schools, where semi-professional activities take place. We expect a child's abilities to be developed at a sports school to the level that he or she will participate in bigger competitions, but at a music school until his or her career choice. We have vocational schools right now. We can also acquire some skills at a certain craft level, which in the future may also make it possible to take professional examinations. There is no need to invent a bicycle in this area. Several years ago, the Law on Interest Schools was passed here in the Riigikogu. The draft law included state support before the cuts, and a bounty system was developed in cooperation with hobbies and local governments. In addition to general education, it was foreseen to support recreational education on a bounty-based basis. Unfortunately, by the time the draft came to the Riigikogu, the winds were a little different. The bill was slightly curtailed and this model was not written into the law. Only a section on state support was written, which unfortunately has not been implemented. As an alternative, the Reform Party offered 2,000 kroons of round money in its election campaign. This proposal also reached the Committee on Culture, the Committee on Culture reached its second reading with this draft, but then came various decisions and agreements, and for some reasons it did not apply. What is my proposal? This is such that there must necessarily be an activity of interest at the school. Of course, it really needs to be backed up systematically and in a larger scale than just a day's work. I would remind you that in the middle of the first decade of this century, in 2003 and 2005, pilot projects were launched in which we financed interest activities at school from the state budget. Applications, which were really systemically thought through and which we did satisfy, were received from more than 80 schools. So we had over 80 schools that applied such activities and were ready to expand it if the state supported them. So it's a very big wish. Secondly, the bounty-based funding for recreational activities, in which the state must support the local government. The third area, however, is more serious: schools of music, sports and art. If we take music education alone, we had a couple of hundred music schools a few years ago and had professional training in them, but the salaries of these teachers, the supply of these instruments, are not critical at all. In their time, they were publicly funded, and now they have been brought to the hands of local governments. A lot of these schools are closed, luckily not all of them, there's a lot of them. The Association of Estonian Music Schools has repeatedly stressed that these schools should be funded according to the national bounty system. This is essential in order to maintain the current level alone. The local government has to bear a lot of costs in relation to the music school. I really need to give music schools a little extra bounty. We'll take any music school in Rakvere, Valga, Võru, which would give the schoolkeeper a chance to get proper pills. After all, the pills are very expensive, and again the question arises as to how much the parent's wallet suffers. If the school does not make a violin, a block flute, or any other instrument available to the child, parents must obtain it. Does Estonia really leave the education of some talented children only because its parents do not have any money? It's evil! The situation in art schools is slightly better because there is more flexibility in their work and less direct costs. However, the situation of sports schools is very poor and precisely because there has been no positive development over the last 10 to 15 years; rather, the financing of their work has been cut very much. One that the questioner will certainly remember very well was the 2008 cut, which significantly reduced the revenue base of local authorities and in this respect also reduced their obligations. The kindergarten does not need to take a very small child and the local government no longer has to allocate money for sports and recreational activities of children and young people. One proposal has been more absurd than the other. In fact, this has meant that the local governments were simply taken away from the funds and the state signaled that it was not interested in the activities. Worse still, the state also signaled to the local authorities that they shouldn't be interested. What has happened to child and youth sport because of this? This usually takes place within the framework of NGOs, various clubs, is very much underfunded and possible in most places only thanks to the parents' wallet. This means that the salaries of coaches are very low and their situation is extremely poor at all. If the coach is not yet a school physical education teacher or hired in a club where he receives social guarantees, then his life is very difficult. Exactly, the fact that the social guarantee system is very poor also plays a part. Therefore, we must definitely come back to the issue of sport education both in the long term and in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U123	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U124	Dear waitress, good colleague Mailis! I have been following statistics that reflect the situation of young families and the situation of our children. I think the statistics are getting worse. We live in a country where 60,000 children live below the poverty line, thousands of children go to bed at night on an empty stomach, school lunch break is perhaps the only time a day for a child to get warm food, etc. This list may be continued. I do not understand why these problems are still not solved in the country, why the rulers are overlooking this situation. What could be the reason? If children are not our priority, what is our priority? To tell you that the country doesn't have any money, and to put money on weights versus children, I think it's cynical.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U125	A good questioner, indeed, is the question of how our country has responded to the problem of child poverty so profoundly. Social scientists have also repeatedly referred to this problem in various studies. On the positive side, the development plan for children and families can be highlighted. The work that was done in preparing this development plan was excellent. Discussions were very long and only organisations defending children's rights made a significant contribution to this document. When we read it and look at the goals that the country has set in the development plan, I assure you, a good questioner, that the country has taken a great deal of attention in this area. He has set a number of goals, quite intelligently considered the problems, and he has also put forward proposals. However, if we look at the steps that have been taken in 2013, then these are the drafts that have been initiated here, or the disputes that have been held, there is no reason to believe that even a centimeter of this development plan will be implemented. We look forward to the 2014 state budget. On the one hand, awareness has increased. At least no more attempts are made to say that it's like crap, maybe except for the Prime Minister, who always says that he reads other statistics. In general, it is already acknowledged that this is a problem. It is acknowledged that the solutions proposed in the development plan, which in many ways are also very clearly money-related solutions, could bring relief. In the 2014 budget procedure, do we see the concrete steps of the development plan being taken, it is too early to say that. This will only be clear in the autumn when the wider public sees the budget. I'm sure we're going to handle the state budget thoroughly here. Does the rejection of this same draft 435 give us reason to say that the country has no desire to address the problems of children living in poverty? In a way, yes. However, I have little hope. Sometimes the opposition's drafts are rejected only because they are initiated by the opposition. If this initiative can remember the problem, it is very good. Perhaps the officials of the ministry and perhaps the minister himself do not remember the promise of his time. A whole series of laws were changed during the seasons. There was a sacrificial aid law, a drug law, and a labour market policy all in a pile together. It may not be remembered that there was also a small move at the time, such as losing school support. And if we have analysed this today and together, in the round of questions and answers and speeches, we will not know, perhaps the Ministry of Social Affairs will decide, at least in part, to restore this support on a need-based basis from next year. Whether school support would help these 60000 children in the long term, I partly replied. I would say that this would certainly be a very good signal to the local authorities. This would indicate that the local authority is not left alone to solve the problems. As I have said many times, the loss of school support means that those in need of help go to the local government, who must take the necessary money from somewhere. The question is, what are the opportunities of the municipalities, in fact, there is no room for financial manoeuvring. The municipality simply has to decide whether it will take care of its roads, push snow, provide other services, ensure the necessary competence to do so by keeping certain people on the payroll in the city or rural municipality government, or pay emergency support to those in need of help to attend school. The manoeuvring space is very small due to such a massive cut in the income base of the local government. Against this background, start talking about the fact that the local government has to find more money to pay the salary of the logo beet, the school psychologist, the special pedagogue and also the social pedagogue, not to mention that it certainly wants to pay the class manager an extra fee of at least EUR 100 and to pay the methodician an extra charge of EUR 140, to say the least, it is a mist to people. Local authorities do not have such funds, and no one is going to give them that money. It's rather a storm silence for a period of time, until the teacher realizes that such money doesn't reach him. Against this dim background, however, there is little hope, as with the same school grant, that in the end this unfortunate logo is still coming to the door of the local government and asking: "What am I going to do now? I've got 30-40 children who clearly need help, do I leave them uncared, or do you find me that money? '
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U126	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U127	The initiator of a good bill! Of course, we know that parents mostly have little money to buy for their children's interests, and this is urgently needed. We know everything that costs a ski couple, a skate couple, a judokimono or something else. Undoubtedly, many municipalities and schools have come here to help and in recent years, all kinds of village societies have opened up different circles of interest. But, as we know, the funding of the measure for village renewal and development in the next period under the rural development plan will be reduced. Very high expectations have been linked to the Leader programme, in which the same things were done. But in this area, too, finances are decreasing. How do you say that in the next period, the village movement will probably withdraw somewhat from financing children's recreational education?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U128	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U129	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U130	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! The Minister of Social Affairs has written in his opinion on draft 435 that from 1 July this year, child benefit will increase from the third child of the family to EUR 76.72 per month, i.e. by EUR 19.18 and therefore no school allowance is needed. Can it be concluded from a letter from the Minister of Social Affairs that the first and second children's schooling does not involve extra costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U131	Thank you. Certainly, the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who had an unpleasant obligation to reject the draft initiated by the opposition, are in a rather awkward position. I guess they had to set something up in that line. The reason is that subsidies for those in need are the poorest children whose parent can prove that he or she qualifies for an additional EUR 9 for a slightly higher income than a rather modest income from income support. Your question was about the third and more children. If there is an increase of EUR 19 for a third or more children, it is a bit cynical to say that if, for example, a fifth child is born into a family, it will be cheaper for a third child to go to school, or that, for example, with the birth of a fourth or fifth child, the average income of the family per person could be reduced, so that one person would eat less. That's such an imaginary excuse, to put it mildly. It is said that the state is dealing with children, needs-based support is being increased, support for large families is growing by a few euros and, as a result, we no longer need other forms of support. Our proposal is to restore support that was widespread, which parents were accustomed to and considered, and which, at the time of its disappearance, was said to be temporary. We want to bring it back on the same scale, with the same provisions and, if possible, could then start increasing it, bringing in differences. Perhaps, in the case of the PGS, we could also discuss a substantial increase in the volume of teaching resources so that parents do not have such high costs. However, these are all the next steps; our current proposal is relatively narrow. The general principle of children's benefits is that every child born must be judged by the state, taken into account by the state, each child must be noticed. If the state accepts this parent's decision at all, then the next parent will dare to make that decision tomorrow, knowing that the state will be there for him. In this decision, school support is very important, and the parent receives a signal that he is supported by various things. Any cuts, they are temporary or permanent, do not create confidence. We hope that, thanks to our draft procedure here, the Ministry of Social Affairs will perhaps remember that such support was there, and that they will take the initiative and restore it to the new budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U132	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! According to Statistics Estonia, 42000 children and 23000 children lived in relative poverty in Estonia in 2011. Can the restoration of school support contribute to a slight reduction in these figures?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U133	It is certainly more than disturbing at the 24th or 48th hour of the issue of a tangible change in the proportion of future euro payments or of the re-evolution of our objectives to date. We have very often referred to criticism here in the middle of this Chamber and on the left that we are very much putting our fixed costs on the shoulders of the European taxpayer, because we ourselves cannot adequately cover these fixed costs with our taxes and our contribution. It's definitely inappropriate. And, at the same time, in distributing this European money, we will re-prioritise so that we can contribute even less proportionally to our human resources, because who else does this child have other than the future human resource, is certainly inappropriate. The village movement, the village societies have indeed, as the good questioner said, been very helpful. After all, we know what the clear characteristics of our rural areas are. I confirmed, in reply to Mrs Palo, that I am personally very much in favour of the activities of interest at school, and precisely because there is often a necessary competence, the necessary frame. There are gyms, equipment, rooms, kids can use them in the evenings, they don't have to rent separately. At the same time, it is not appropriate for all children to spend such long days at school. If there is a strong village movement on the ground, unfortunately, the child will be brought to his home by a school bus, but close to home, so that he can walk home to the moustache, and he will also have the development of the evening at the same time in close proximity to his home. At our settlement, the village societies are a key issue. If the village society really creates these opportunities, perhaps some children will decide to create their own family in the country in the future and do not think that they will have to live in a university town or other city after university studies. He has a chance and a desire to live in the country, because he remembers his childhood as a wonderful life there. This is a decision with very far-reaching implications that we will change in order for a minister to implement his policy. This is very dangerous for the future, and we should definitely come back to it not only in the media, but also here in the Riigikogu. The distribution of euro money, the Structural Funds and other funds for the coming periods is clearly a key issue for our budget, and this must certainly not be decided anywhere in office. It has to be given more time to discuss.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U134	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U135	Good Mailis! The representatives of the Estonian Social Work Association sent a press release about cutting school support in 2008, where they realized that some families would get into difficulties without school support. Social workers working in local governments already confirmed that, especially in rural areas, school support is extremely important for a large number of families. This support was expected and taken into account. Now many families in the country have lost the necessary money. How do you assess the situation caused by the abolition of school support in rural areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U136	Good questioner! I will give you a very simple example of school support. In a situation where school support disappeared, in 2009 already in quite a number of areas before the very popular school fairs were not organised, and mothers and fathers tried to pack their children's school bags in other ways. Unfortunately, there was a country where the only support was the local government or local government, together with charitable donors. But anyway, there were quite a few parents who couldn't get all the school equipment they needed for their children. What solutions local authorities have found, this picture is quite different. There are municipalities that try to give some support when going to school, and there are those who pay off certain things on a cost-based basis. But there are many other options. Especially in the countryside, smaller rural municipalities have tried to solve the problem in such a way that, for example, coloured and ordinary pencils, ruleres and erasers are available at school. Some efforts are being made to resolve the situation where some children are being sent to school without these resources. The child must not feel uncomfortable at school, and it is good to have some tools in school so smoothly and only the parent remains to dress the child. The problem of sports equipment has also been solved very differently by local authorities. As I have already said, social workers have relied heavily on their contacts. After all, our municipalities and cities have very good contacts in countries that are more prosperous than us, where at the end of the school year there are charitable collections in friendship schools, during which children who have grown out of their shoes and clothes donate them to Estonian children. Against this background, it is always strange to listen to the Prime Minister's talk about how people from elsewhere in Europe are going to see how successful we are and to follow our example. In fact, there are quite a number of communities not only in the Nordic countries, but also in Central Europe, which, in cooperation with our local governments, have tried to support Estonian families living in poverty. This is also understandable, because these countries do not have such complicated history behind them, but surely the zeal of the helpers would be greater if our own country would also be willing to support more. So when the Riigikogu starts to process the budget, we should be able to make it objectively clear that the grants are inadequate by involving all parties significantly more. As I said, EUR 28 is certainly not the amount for which you can buy your child all the equipment you need, but it will allow a child at risk to go to school with a little bit of a good feeling. In summary, what were the consequences of this cut? I'm sure it gave me a signal in a broader sense, which I was just talking about. This signal to families with children is that if the state is doing badly and if the economy is doing badly, then the Estonian state is the one who tells the needy who has reached his yard that I am sorry, I am also poor. And this is a signal that is not really justified and should not be given.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U137	Unfortunately, I didn't get a question. What question should I answer? However, while it was already a matter of compliments, I am very pleased that you have been in this Chamber throughout this debate. If you had a question, I would have answered yes or no. However, there was no question of whether.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U138	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U139	Honourable waitress! Reading with amazement the commission's proposal to reject this draft at first reading, I remembered an article that I once read, which I would like to quote. I quote: 'Today, reducing or losing subsidies is irresponsible because it deepens the inequality of social groups. Grants, especially children's benefits, must not only be maintained but also rise in the near future, but Ansip would rather deprive many parents of them. Ansip mentions the payment of children's benefits for the'spending of money from an airplane'. " You must have recognized it. In autumn 2008, Vilja Savisaar wrote it. And he continued his article, saying that the amounts involved in increasing parental benefit should be used to pay benefits equal to all. For families with low incomes, 500 kroons would also be a lifeline to help with the extra money. I am asking you very simply: which philosophy are you in favour of, what is represented by Vilja Savisaar, or what is represented by the Prime Minister quoted by him?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U140	Surely it is a welcome, good questioner when people change their opinions and thoughts during their lives. It is also understandable that Mrs Savisaar, who began her career in solving the problems of dormitories in northern Tallinn and, in this connection, faced quite a number of people in very deep need, was eager to fight poverty at the time. While earning some other income in Brussels, he is likely to meet people who do not look back on poverty. When you look at the people moving in the corridors of the European Parliament, Mrs Ojuland's purse certainly does not seem too expensive for them either, and the opportunities for people working there to buy things for themselves and their families are considerable. Against this background, Mrs Savisaare, in particular Mrs Savisaar-Toomast's growth, is perfectly understandable. But I now come to the essence of the question: do I see the danger in the statements made by Prime Minister Ansip at the time? I think that, since he has not changed his opinion on child benefits in five years, it is very dangerous. The fact that, in addition to the need-based support of 1 July, or EUR 9, the current EUR 19 child allowance, is still valid is a small miracle for which the public must be thanked, as a result of the support of both the opposition, the media and the wider interest groups, is able to create a situation where the coalition did not dare decide to abolish child support. But Mr. Ansip hasn't changed his mind in any way. There has certainly been a great deal of talk within the coalition that child support must be abolished, but, fortunately, the public has so far managed to keep it under observation in such a light that no such bravery has been done. We politicians have sometimes been disappointed with this plan, but it is positive from the public's point of view that we are constantly preparing for some sort of election, be it local government elections or elections to the European Parliament or Riigikogu, plus presidential elections. In an election atmosphere, however, unpopular decisions are quite uncomfortable to make. Let me remind you that the crisis cuts were made at quite an interesting time and in quite a similar way. If we recall this package, there was also the abolition of school allowance as a public family allowance. There were even seven laws, a larger package, which Mr Ansip linked to his trust or distrust. And we didn't even process them, we just voted. In my opinion, discussions about whether family support is a waste of money or not are completely out of place. Fortunately, social scientists from both Estonia and other countries have repeatedly proven with their research that universal subsidies can give two very clear signals. One is that the state cares about and supports families with its children, the other, and it is also very important that these measures really can keep people from falling into deep poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U141	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U142	Good waitress! Listening to your long and comprehensive answers, I understand that all members of the Riigikogu have to learn from you how to convey their thoughts about the various turns of life. By answering the last question, you have already reached Mrs Ojuland's handbag at one point from national family allowances. But here's my question. Don't you think it's some kind of Baron Münchhausen trick who pulled himself out of the swamp? It seems to me that you have chosen such a'self ask, myself answer' method. The group of the Estonian Central Party is the initiator of this draft, which mainly asks questions here. Very specific question: have you discussed anything in the group in connection with the initiation of this draft, or do these problems seem relatively new and unclear to the members of the group? Otherwise there wouldn't be so many questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U143	Good questioner, I am extremely pleased that you have joined us in this Chamber and also wanted to ask a more specific question. That is our purpose. The draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act must recall the 2008 promise that the cut that abolished school allowance will not be final, but will be restored if the economy stabilises and the situation improves. After all, we all very much want to believe in the Prime Minister, who confirms that the crisis is over and that the situation has stabilised. In this regard, too, you have given at least the same length and depth of explanations in this panel as we have dealt with the budget. Based on your optimistic attitude, you stressed in the 2013 state budget procedure that you have not been able to read such a good budget for a long time. If that is true, we certainly have reason to hope that the 2014 budget will be at least as good. Perhaps you are ready to introduce it as enthusiastically and as thoroughly as you are still chairing the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I will repeat the purpose of today's draft. Some people in the corridors of the Riigikogu may not have understood this yet and realized that the need for school support is very high in society. And as you know from the logic of the budget procedure, the very last minute is the detailed proposals relating to it to be sent to the Ministry of Finance. I hope that then we will be very happy to see that the coalition has decided to re-establish school support in one way or another in the autumn. We discussed this draft very thoroughly. I am very pleased that you asked about the group's work. I am sure that your group has also discussed certain things in full, but you have had to ask questions to your minister at Question Time from time to time. So the members of our group want to clarify one or another provision. But I have a goal here on the remote, yes, to draw attention to the subject more widely, and look, Sven Sester, a coalition member, asked me a question. We're getting some information. I hope that if we do some more research here, perhaps as chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you will find that this could be one of the areas in which the Riigikogu wishes to contribute in the autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U144	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U145	Good waitress, no more questions. Thank you. I now ask for a presentation of a member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U146	Good questioner! The school allowance is a one-off grant paid only once a year and only to the target group with children attending school. Clearly, families with children up to one and a half years of age are disproportionately supported. What is the biggest problem with this support? It is that the amount that will be paid when a child has become one and a half years old is very, very small and caused by it, I do not want to say shock, but, let's say, the change in life is too great. The faction of the Centre Party has repeatedly proposed an increase in child care fees so that it would be easier to survive a time when the mother is not yet able to work for the sake of the child. If the coalition were to like it more, the solution might also be to extend the payment of parental pay, but, of course, not on the basis of such high upper tax rates, that would be beyond the state budget. The parental allowance must be evener. It has been suggested that parental pay could be up to the average salary and that it would be paid for a longer period of time. Such regulation would indeed be more flexible. When it comes to parental benefits, a number of specialists have made it very clear that the person receiving parental benefits is forbidden to work. In fact, not only can you be punished if you go to work when receiving parental benefit, but in certain cases it may be that a parent, or usually a mother, has to pay back more than he earned at any time. These are problems that have been referred to not only in the face of women's rights, but from the point of view of reconciling work and family life. We urgently need measures to alleviate the problems that families face with the birth and upbringing of children. More flexible opportunities are needed to work in many ways supported, to work part-time, tax incentives for the employer. It would be good if the parent had the opportunity to work part-time. Such flexible models exist elsewhere in Europe. I personally know a little bit more about the Dutch system. In many places, flexible labour market measures have been introduced that offer much greater certainty than child support alone. So there must be child benefits, family benefits, the same school allowance, but there must also be other measures. Quite a number of solutions can be found in the development plan for children and families. This same reconciliation of work and family life is very clearly within it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U147	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U148	Good waitress! I am thrilled by the relationship between the problem you raised in this Chamber and the law on the amendment of the basic school and upper secondary school law, which will probably be discussed tomorrow. As we know, coalition parties believe that school support should be a matter for local governments. The municipalities, however, have very different financial capacities, and child security in primary school would already be and will therefore depend on their place of residence. However, according to the same group's vision, these children should enter state secondary schools in the future, where there will be fewer places. It has been said that 50% of today's 70% should be replaced by upper secondary school education. In fact, this is the way in which children's wealth is established in primary school. Should it not, however, be the responsibility of the state to ensure equal education for all children in our small country since primary education?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U149	Good questioner, I fully agree with you and share this concern, which you have made very clear on your question. Unfortunately, it is not only the differences between the land and the city, but also regional differences. We have more children in certain schools in a socially precarious situation, fewer in other schools. Various measures have been proposed as a solution at different times. In the case of Tallinn, for example, much has been said about the dispute between the city centre and the schools around the city. The purpose of the school grant, although it is a modest amount proposed in the draft, is to remedy the situation to some extent. But, of course, this would only be one measure that would only work to its limited extent. There are many painful topics related to our schools. For example, what parents'desire and ability to supplement the education system is. We did not open this debate this time in wishing to amend the basic school and upper secondary school law, and we will probably come to this topic in our definition in the next academic year of the Riigikogu, whether in autumn or winter. I am thinking of the extent to which we appreciate the contribution of parents to the education of their children and, at the same time, the extent to which we promise that in certain schools wealthy parents will pay for their child's better education. What are the consequences? To what extent can we afford private education? It's a debate. The second issue: are we allowed to do what we want to do when we change the law on basic school and upper secondary school? With the new Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, we will create a situation where one branch of education, or state secondary schools, will be funded on a completely different basis than municipal schools. In this way, the issue of equal treatment is not only about schools, but also about local authorities. It is also true that a municipal primary school teacher can contribute to the course of things by encouraging young people to make certain study choices. It is bad if the state secondary school does not involve some kind of cross-border settlement, there are no obligations for the local government to finance support structures, there will be no regulation if any child needs any additional support. State secondary schools are clearly in a privileged position. Not just because they're a little more effective, the houses are better renovated, but their teaching tools are also better. We hope that if these school buildings are rebuilt with European Union money, their educational resources will be super-level, their IT solutions will ensure such a level of attractiveness that children already want to go there. Unfortunately, this is a very clear expression of injustice. Those children who may be entering a permanent local upper secondary school for a while may enter because their parents do not have money to pay for their food and stay outside their home. Unfortunately, we do not have free school meals at upper secondary school. In order to send a child to a secondary school elsewhere, parents need to find a way to stay because we do not have upper secondary school education grants, and they need to find a way to transport, because transport subsidies do not apply to our upper secondary school students. With the PGS, we'll create a new upper secondary school network. We will inevitably close a number of small upper secondary schools, leave only a few more persistent ones in local governments. At the same time, we segregregate students according to their family's wealth, because unlike the vocational education system, there is no soft landing in upper secondary school education. School support is just one small measure that would provide some support for at least September and October by providing some equipment, but it certainly will not solve the problem that would be solved by school grants. In the light of the PGS, for five years, there has been the subject of additional subsidies, and we will come to that right away. So far, this has not been resolved. We certainly need to take this issue very seriously when we are discussing the amendment of the basic school and upper secondary school law today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U150	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U151	Honourable waitress! There have been many questions and the answers have been gratefully comprehensive. However, the question remains that suddenly there was nothing left unsaid. What could it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U152	Good questioner! As regards the draft law 435, it is certainly possible to look at it very, very widely. It can be analysed, as we have done today, in the general context of child support, in the general context of human poverty. Perhaps the most important thing, as has already been said today, is to give a general signal as to whether the country has understood its task of helping people or whether it is the area where we are cutting first. Certainly, school support is not the only means of solving the problem; it should only be one measure. As I said, the development plan for children and families inspires optimism. But you asked what was left unsaid, and I say that, unfortunately, I do not really believe that it will be put into practice. There are many such great development plans, I do not want to call them five-year plans, starting with the development plans of Estonia as a whole and ending with the regional ones. Some time ago, the development plan for higher education and the development plan for research were very optimisticly adopted, but many years later it had to be noted that some percentage of this rate, as agreed by stakeholders and the government, could not be financed. It is feared that this will also happen with this development plan, on the basis of which we should help children out of absolute and deep poverty. This plan may not be implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U153	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U154	Good colleague! It is no big secret for anyone that public family benefits are very unevenly distributed in Estonia, and the country most supports the parents of children up to one and a half years old. As the child gets older, however, the benefit is sharply reduced, although the costs of the parents are not really falling, but rather the opposite. And when the kid goes to school, it's gonna be really big. What do you think, you have already talked about your understanding, but should Estonia change the whole support system in addition to restoring school support? And if so, what is your vision of this transformed support system?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U155	Good waitress, Eiki was trying to widen the subject. I'm afraid I wasn't in the hall at the very beginning. I do not want to waste myself and our dear colleagues' time, but maybe you could come back narrowly to this particular draft and explain in a very simple way what would change when it was adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U156	When this draft is adopted, the situation will change so that we will receive back school support as public support. As I said yesterday when I introduced this draft, the amount is exactly 28 euros and 77 cents. That's what kids go to school every year get. If data from the EHIS are taken as a basis, these should be small adjustments for the following academic year, which will certainly be available as of October for 136362 more children. The EUR 28,77 proposed in our proposal comes from the amount paid before the crisis. The regulation that has been included in the grant is also due to the pre-crisis period. The proposal is to implement the law from 1 January 2014, which gives sufficient time to enter it into the state budget for the following year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U157	Juku-Kalle Raid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U158	Thanks! Look, knock it off, Mommy, but I don't know if you can't or can't answer more concretely and shorter, but we're about to make sure. I'm asking for the shortest answer you're capable of!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U159	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U160	Good colleague! A little over six months ago, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur called raising child support a reform. We received such figures: EUR 9.59 and EUR 19.18. We've got a little bit more. However, military personnel costs increased from April 1st. a 18.7%, whole by one fifth. I think this is a real reform. We all know how much children's clothes, skis, textbooks, and so on. What could be the reform of child support in your eyes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U161	The principles may vary, but if you look at the way in which the grant is now distributed in municipalities, we can see that it differs several times from one municipality to another. If you look at the municipalities that have introduced the so-called habits or squeezing allowance for the first time in school, even here, there are several different amounts. And in many municipalities, no income-independent school support has been introduced at all. One of them is my home town of Tartu, but also Pärnu and Narva, for example. Why is the school support provided by the state important? This is because municipalities share the subsidy on very different grounds and this may not reach all children at all. I would like to bring this up, for example. Let's say that the child lives in a rural area near Tartu, where there is a decent, perhaps even 100 euros of school leave allowance, but if he went to school in Tartu, he will not receive this allowance. Vald has decided to give it to his school children only. I've talked to parents, everyone says, like, one word that if a child goes to school, there's no way they're playing less than 100 euros. This was confirmed by the mother of four children, Mailis Reps, in her report. This is the minimum amount of money a family has to make when a child goes to school. Speaking of a school bag, literally a buffet, a hard-on school bag costs 40.50 euros, according to parents. Clothes and shoes are also worth about €50, and parents confirm that in addition, the stationery shop costs €20.30, plus workbooks. It's been said not to charge for workbooks, but it's still done. I will read to you later how much benefits are paid in one municipality or another. Generally speaking, if you look at the costs of parents, the school allowance received from the local government could cover them. But as I have already said, even if the allowance is paid, it will not reach many children. The biggest support for first-class visitors is 320 euros, paid by Tallinn, the largest local government in Estonia. The condition for receiving the allowance is, among other things, that at least one of the parents must have lived in Tallinn at least one year before the child went to school. The regulation in question states which allows parents to apply for school allowance. 'The child's allowance is paid to the parent, guardian or guardian of the child, provided that at least one of the parents, according to the population register, has lived in Tallinn at least one year before the child's school and the child is resident in Tallinn, according to the population register, lives at one address with the applicant and is located at Tallinn School. The grant shall be determined on the basis of approved lists of school pupils. /... / The allowance is granted in two parts, 50% of the allowance is paid on the completion of the child's schooling and 50% in June after the completion of the first class, provided that the applicant and the child are continuously residents of Tallinn City according to the population register and the child is studying at Tallinn School. ' Compared to other cities, Põlva City offers considerable support, where the child's school leaving allowance is 128 euros. When you look around Harjumaa, we see that Harjumaa rural municipalities are quite kind. Saue municipality, where the amount of the allowance is 160 euros, and Jõelähtme, Keila and Kernu parishes with 128 euros, stand out from the municipalities. The situation in Harku has been resolved in various ways: school allowance is 65 euros at the end of basic school or upper secondary school, school allowance for school supplies and school clothes, when at least two children from the family are studying in general school, vocational school, vocational secondary school or technic, and there are 125 euros at the school allowance for school supplies and school clothes for single parents when at least one child is studying in general school, vocational school, vocational secondary school or technic. As I have already said, depending on the possibilities, the municipal school allowances vary greatly, ranging from zero in the municipality of Kullamaa in Läänemaa and Tamsalu in the municipality of Lääne-Virumaa to a few hundred euros. For example, Rapla vald will pay 130 euros, Käina vald in Hiiumaa 128 euros, Imavere Parish in Järvamaa and Lümanda vald in Saaremaa 63,91, Rõuge Parish in Võrumaa 35 euros and Taebla Parish in Läänemaa 32 euros. Mäetaguse municipality, located in Ida-Virumaa, offers the biggest support to parents, where the amount of the ranch allowance is 192 euros. This is the case behind the hill: families with three or more children going to school are also covered by vocational and higher education institutions, which is very important; families whose children start to study in the first grade are paid school allowance; families whose children start to study in the first grade are also paid school allowance in the post-Mägi region to children who grow in foster care or foster care. The money will be paid before 1 November and the school allowance will not be paid to families whose children do not fulfil their school obligations. The textbooks and workbooks will be paid in full on the 10th and 12th of the Beyond. for class 1 students, except adult upper secondary school students. Some of the amount of their school benefits. Families beyond the mountain with three or more children attending school receive 192 euros if one child goes to first class. In addition, they will be paid a further 64 euros per child. They also receive EUR 64 for children who are in charge of guardianship. The website of Rakvere can read that children entering grade 1 are paid 64 euros of school leaving allowance. In addition, Rakvere pays additional school allowance to children in vulnerable families. This can be obtained if the child and at least one parent live in Rakvere City, registered in the Estonian Population Information System, and the family is underinsured. A family whose net income per family member per month is less than EUR 153 40 cents after deduction of the standard housing costs, which are documented on the basis of the income, is considered to be unsecure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U162	Good questioner! This nine-euro increase in child support is only intended for those most in need. These nine euros are paid only to those who can prove that their income is such that they desperately need it. But yes, that is not the amount that it is appropriate to call the reform. It is sufficient that we take into account the increase in the cost of our food basket, the increase in basic consumption expenditure, which is very clearly affecting each family and, in particular, families with children, it is obvious that this nine euro will not even cover the increase in the price of the food basket in one year. So it's a long way from reform. It would certainly have been justified to increase universal child support by nine or ten euros. This would have been intended for a large number of people and, by introducing it, it could have been confirmed that we would gradually increase it for the next five to ten years, each year in proportion to 10, 20 or 50%, for example. But if we talk about families in deep poverty and find only EUR 9 in the state budget for these children, then the question arises whether we cannot or do not want to. Rather, it seems that this is a populist statement to the public that the huge increase in child support came and that the increase of only EUR 9 remains in the background. The Minister, however, can talk about the massive reform process. Unfortunately, for those in need, this support is very, very small in comparison with what people have actually had to pay over the course of this year because of the increase in electricity and food prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U163	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U164	Good waitress! I've been very respectful of you so far, but now I don't know if I'm more concerned about you or myself. You have expressed hope that even Sester is beginning to understand something, but I have to admit that all these answers you have given will make life more difficult for me. In one response, you spoke combustiblely about the life of the coaches, which is on average rather poor, and on that I hastened to examine draft 435, but unfortunately I find no word in any section or explanatory memorandum about the performance of the coaches and that it would somehow worsen or improve their state of affairs. Do you still have a bill 435 on your desk, and that's what you're going to introduce us to?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U165	Thank you, that is certainly an appropriate remark. But the question at the time was whether the current education system would satisfy us and whether school support could in any way alleviate the difficult situation of the parent. A large part of the hobby education is now paid off by parents. In answer to that, I had to bring out very different layers of recreational education. Is this subject directly or indirectly related to draft 435? Certainly, because it is family benefits that must alleviate the situation of families. You may also know from your own hands that parents spend a considerable amount of interest education and that any support, including when they go to school, is a bit of a relief. I'm sure we'll come back to the coaching situation in the fall. I hope not only on the initiative of the Committee on Culture. There are a lot of support groups in the Riigikogu, a whole series of friendly groups where coalition and opposition ambassadors together discuss matters in substance. The Ministry of Finance has taken a very clear stance that paying salaries to coaches through scholarships is not the way in which coaches should be paid in Estonia. Without a national system, our own children may lose out, not to mention the coaches, because not all parents can afford to pay enough to pay their coaches. So, yes, with draft 435 we will not eliminate the coach problem, but I encourage everyone to look for solutions. I also believe that the opinion of the Government of the Republic on one or the other matter, including the payment of the same grants, is in fact not very different from that of the coalition and opposition. Unfortunately, these differences often prevail when the budget is processed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U166	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U167	Good performer, you were talking about crisis cuts. Indeed, there are still a lot of these things that have been done in the past: free home delivery of pensions was stopped and funeral allowances were taken away, the level of disability benefits have been reduced and the value added tax on medicines, technical care equipment and concert tickets has been raised, dental compensation has been completed, etc. If now the situation is really better if we are, as the Prime Minister says, overcoming the crisis, why hasn't it all been reinstated, at least in part? Or was the crisis ever just a pretext to perpetuate the cuts forever? Do you think this is about attitude?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U168	A good questioner, as you rightly thought, is probably for both reasons. One was certainly a situation in which solutions were quickly sought and where savings were simply needed. The question whether the analyses carried out before these steps were sufficient and the cuts were well-founded. Everything was done very quickly and the Riigikogu was completely excluded from this debate. Our opportunity was to support or not support the Prime Minister. Very many of these changes came to the public completely unexpectedly, and the debate at the time of the cut was canceled. Why has the pre-crisis regulation not been reinstated? It is certainly possible to take a different approach to this too. It is possible to look at the fact that perhaps the Prime Minister is trying to embellish the situation. We must support those economic analysts who are sceptical and claim that we do not yet have enough strength to confirm the end of the crisis. Europe is in a precarious situation, our own growth is lower than expected at the beginning of the year. These indications suggest that perhaps the Ministry of Finance will also look at the situation much more critically if a conversation with the general public is acknowledged. Another problem is that the coalition has its own political objectives and that money is being found to implement them. If we reinstate everything that was cut back in time, including the local government's income base, the money must be taken at the expense of something to achieve its policy goals in terms of growth of 1%. I am thinking about the objectives of local and subsequent elections to the Riigikogu. One promise is, as we know, a reduction in income tax. The easiest thing to do is not restore subsidies that extend to the poorest people. Perhaps it is hoped that these discouraged people will not be protesters enough to go out in the elections. However, looking at the results of opinion polls and the people's attitude towards political parties, it is clear that the coalition has not had the confidence of the people for a year and a half, and already for more than a year it has been expected that the government would be much left or at least inclined to the middle.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U169	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U170	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On Monday, 10 June, the Committee on Social Affairs met at its meeting to first confirm the weekly agenda and hold a proper meeting. That week was a particularly busy week, because three meetings of the Commission were scheduled. They were all different days. On 10 June, i.e. Monday, we had three items on the agenda, I will read them out: draft law amending the Public Health Act and the State Fees Act 436, draft law amending the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Inclusion of Children in Armed Conflicts and, lastly, draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act 435. On that day, I mean Monday, June 10th, the committee session lasted an hour, started at 11:00 and ended at 12:00. On Tuesday, there were three points on the agenda, and especially interesting was Thursday, when a joint meeting with the Committee on Economic and Cultural Affairs was held, and the subject of the agenda was smart specialisation. On Monday, as always, Margus Tsahkna chaired the committee meeting. Protocol Ilve Litova. In addition to the rapporteur representing the initiator of the draft, Yana Toom from the Centre Party Group, Heljo Pikhof from the Social Democratic Party Group, Helmen Kütt also from the Social Democratic Party Group, Jüri Jaanson from the Reform Party Group, Maret Maripuu from the Reform Party Group, Reet Roos from the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Group, Rein Aidma from the Reform Party Group, Viktor Vassilyev from the Centre Party Group and, as always, all our good officials were present, to whom I would like to thank you here. One of them is currently in the back of the hall, Helgi Kundla, our advisor, who has worked hard on this bill and supported us in every way possible. Aimi Kaldre, who is the head of the advisor-secretariat and from whom everyone has always received the necessary advice and assistance, and Heidi Barot were also present. The invited guests were Leelo Männik, the chief specialist of the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Kersti Berendsen-Koržets, Legal Adviser of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Tõnu Poopuu, Head of Children's Rights of the Department of Children and Families of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Riina Saar, Chief Specialist of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. After discussing the first two items, the draft law amending the Public Health Act and the State Fees Act 436 and the draft law amending the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Inclusion of Children in Armed Conflicts, 442 of the Act on the Ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, we began to deal with the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. From the very beginning, our committee chairman, Margus Tsahkna, welcomed the arrival of Riina Saar from the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who is the main specialist there, and then the bill was processed. As I said, the draft has been initiated by the Central Party Group. At the beginning, Margus Tsahkna asked who would like to speak in addition to the Centre Party on the draft. A member of the Commission, Heljo Pikhof, was appointed rapporteur by the Commission with one vote. The chairman of the committee, Margus Tsahkna, then asked the initiator to present draft 435 and our vice-president, Yana Toom, started doing so. At the beginning, he said that, as again and again for three years in a row, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party will have to re-establish the so-called coast subsidy with the draft before the start of the new academic year. These are his words, and indeed, we who have been here in the Riigikogu for more than two years know that this has been the bread number of the Centre Party for the last few years. Yana Toom said that she would not talk for a long time because the subject had already been dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs, but she reminded me that the coast support was never taken away in the course of the cuts. In the same amount, i.e. EUR 28.77, they would like to restore school support and start paying it to children until the end of primary school and why not the end of upper secondary school. He justified this by the fact that, since comprehensive school is compulsory, all children who attend primary school should be supported by the state in some way at the beginning of the school year. He also stressed, based on his experience, that going to school for children is expensive; it is not cheap at all. Members of the Riigikogu cope, but a large part of the Estonian people are in trouble. He also said that the allowance was intended for children 7. until the age of 18 and for children who are younger or older, proof of attending school must be provided. The family must receive the money within October. I will explain once again, quoting Yana Toom, that in the case of students under 7 years of age, we also have such ones, it must be demonstrated that the child is really on one school list and is studying there, and in the case of those older than 16 years of age, such as gymnastics, it must be proved that they are studying. As we all know, we have a 9-grade compulsory education. That is what Yana Toom said to us in the Commission. The Centre Party Group had specific calculations to submit that the implementation of this draft would require EUR 3.92 million. Yana Toom added that since we are talking about next year, this amount should be foreseen by the state budget plan now. So if the state budget were to be made, this amount would certainly have been booked for the coming year. This was confirmed by Yana Toom, to quote him, to torpedo Mr Clothing's argument about the source of cover. The budget for next year has not yet been put together. In general, we all knew what the Ministry was thinking about the draft, but Yana Toom said that we would also like to listen to the Minister's arguments on the basis of them maybe there will be a wider debate in the Commission. He also stressed that the government's opinion was surprising to him that one-off support would not reduce child poverty and would not have an impact on birth rates. His first question was that he would like to hear more precise arguments and find out with which studies this view is justified. What does the Ministry do to protect itself if he comes up with such arguments? The presentation of the draft ended with Yana Toom saying: 'Please support the draft! '. Next, Commissioner Heljo Pikhof asked for the floor. Margus Tsahkna also gave him the floor, but asked whether the Centre Party had thought that this sum could be much higher, for example EUR 57 rather than EUR 28. Since 28 euros is perhaps too small money, time has passed. The vice-president of the Commission, Yana Toom, explained why they have come to the Riigikogu Committee with this 28 euros and 77 cents. They want the bill to go to the big hall after that and be accepted. This is a realistic proposal. They believe that when we talk about the beginning of the school year and about that 1 out of 9. All children should receive a minimum of 28 euro for 77 cents, then there is hope that the draft will be approved by the Riigikogu. All the more so as, as Mailis Reps has already said, when cuts were made, the package allowance was allowed to be put back on the family allowance list when the country's economy is getting better. Member of the Commission Jüri Jaanson, as always, wondered where this money was taken from and what had to be abandoned in order to start paying school support. The vice-president of the Commission, Yana Toom, said that he had not yet seen the state budget plan and it was very difficult to decide where to take the money and where to put it. He also admitted that this was, of course, a matter of choice for politicians. We understood what he said so far as it was a question of what is still a priority for the state. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the Commission stated directly that they do not support the draft. At the same time, he assured the government that schooling would lead to additional costs for each family. The government representative also wanted to answer Yana Toomi's question concerning one-off grants and their impact on the poverty of families with children. The representative of the Government of the Republic stressed that they rely on research and that families with children are supported by the state through other measures. He again came to need-based family support. The representative of the Government of the Republic said they would increase family allowances from s. a The need-based family allowance shall apply from 1 July and from 1 July. The government's representative stressed that going to school entails constant year-round costs, not limited to 1 September. He also stated that the source of the costs was not included in the draft. He also told me about the pot: the Ministry of Social Affairs was handed over a pot, and inside that pot they had to take money from someone to give it to someone else. The government's representative stressed that from whom to take and to whom to give, this is a question of budgeting, an additional four million will not be added to them. Member of the Commission, Heljo Pikhof, was then asked to withdraw funds for need-based family support, and the representative of the Government of the Republic replied that this was a political decision. That money was given, and he didn't decide. After discussing the draft of the Central Party Group for a long time, the chairman of the committee, Margus Tsahkna, went on and asked the representative of the Government of the Republic whether the state had an overview of how many municipalities paid the grant and how much these amounts were. Is there even such an overview in the Ministry of Social Affairs? He said if he did, he could send it to the members of the Social Affairs Committee. He himself was confident that, since it was a one-off grant, it would certainly be granted by the municipalities. At the same time, Margus Tsahkna and I had an argument at the Commission. He said that in Tartu, there's a rennet subsidy, but I know for sure it's not. That is why we have asked for details to be sent of all cities, whether or not they will receive the grant. Member of the Commission, Helmen Kütt, also wanted to know in which municipalities and how much reimbursement is paid. He gave an example to the city of Viljandi, where only 1st grade entry allowance is paid. There was also talk about Tallinn paying it in two parts. Following a presentation by the initiator's representative and a reply to questions put by the members of the Commission, a decision was taken. The committee president, Margus Tsahkna, proposed to decide first that the draft will go to first reading, on 18 June 2013. It was unanimously supported by the Commission. The following proposal was proposed by Yana Toomi, and this proposal was to finish the first reading. Margus Tsahkna asked who was in favour. The vote was in favour of 4, against 5, and this meant that the first reading would not be stopped. It also states that, in the event that the first reading is closed, it is proposed that the deadline for the submission of amendments be set at 10 working days. The Commission supports this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U171	Dear colleague Heljo Pikhof! There is a lot of debate about what kind of support should be. We are dominated by a 'need-based' support system. In the meantime, the previous speaker who introduced the draft came to the conclusion that perhaps the right thing to do is for schools to be able to offer any aid packages on the ground. This is where I come to the egalitarian and elite support system. I know that even in elite schools, it is found that all students should have everything, that it should be supported that everyone can study in school, that there is a complete package and uniform, that there is no way that some are more beautiful and richer and some God knows what kind. I understand that this support is needed now, but in this context, I ask: in the long term, should the principle of the law currently being discussed be maintained, or could it still be that everything necessary through school is equally guaranteed to everyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U172	Good waitress! Unlike Igor Gräzin, I want to congratulate you on the very thorough overview and answers you have given here in a very long time. I think that the discussion of other drafts could also be more constructive and thorough in the Riigikogu. When it comes to the grant or the school grant at all, it is no secret that when you meet people, they ask us, as ambassadors, very often when you get your school grant back. I do not think I will miss the issue when I ask the Commission whether it was discussed that if child support has to be needs-based, could school allowances not also be needs-based?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U173	Dear waitress, I'll be more specific for a moment. Was this all in the debate in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U174	Yes, we had a debate on this in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U175	Got it!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U176	And this subject is related to today's agenda. Of these regulations, the government coalition could have taken the lead in establishing needs-based child support. In Haapsalu, the allowance for a child entering school for the first time is paid to a parent if his/her place of residence and the place of residence of the child going to school for the first time are according to the population register of Haapsalu city. This allowance may also be paid to the guardian or guardian of the child. The payment of school leaving allowance is based on the data provided by the Education and Culture Department of the City Administration to the Social Affairs Committee of the City Administration for children going to school. The amount of the school leaving allowance shall be determined by the municipality for each financial year. I do not have any data later on, but in 2010 there was a grant of 65 euros for a child going to school for the first time. More from Haapsalu. Families with children are provided with one-off allowances for school supplies, workbooks, school clothes, pleasure clubs, sports equipment, school travel, summer camps and so on. You can apply for the allowance twice a year, up to a total of EUR 95 87 cents per child. The amount of school allowance in Jõgeva is 150 euros, for Jõhvi, the Ministry of Social Affairs sent us information that the city is paying school allowance, but it does not say whether the children of their families who need support because of their parents' low or non-existent income or pay everyone. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, Kallase has a school leaving allowance, which is granted by one of the parents if the child's residence in the Estonian population register is the city of Kallaste and has entered the first class of Kallaste school. This allowance shall be granted in the form of a pack of school supplies of a value of at least EUR 20. At the request of the chairman of the committee, an official of the Ministry of Social Affairs who visited our committee sent us information on a number of other cities. I'll read them, too. For example, Maardu pays the child's first-time school allowance to the parent, guardian or guardian of the child. In the latter case, the basis is the child's family care contract. The general condition is that at least one of the parents, according to the population register, has lived in Maardu for at least six months before the child's schooling and the child is also a resident of Maardu, according to the population register. The applicant must submit an application to Maardu City Government within three months of the beginning of the academic year. In Narva-Jõesuu, the school allowance is a one-off allowance and only to support a first-class child. The amount is EUR 63.91. From 1 September 2013, Paide will have a school allowance of 100 euros for children going to school for the first time. Paldiski has a school allowance paid for the two schools in Paldiski. to support students in class 1 and, of course, to support children in grade 1. The letter sent by the Ministry of Social Affairs states that'school allowance is paid to a person in cash or to a student by paying part or all of the cost of teaching or other resources necessary for school work. ' The situation has been resolved in Kõlva, so that the first-class orphan allowance is paid to all parents of children entering first class. Saue school allowance is also a one-time allowance for the parents of the first-class child. In 2012, the Saue City Government paid this grant to everyone EUR 65. Sillamäe also pays school allowance. How the government does this has not been specified by the Ministry of Social Affairs, but it can be assumed that this is only the allowance for the first-class child. The solution is as follows in Tartu. The Ministry of Social Affairs writes that Tartu has support to ensure the child's livelihood and is intended for the purchase of school supplies, clothing, footwear and other essential items. If the family with children lives below a certain income limit, you can apply for this child's subsistence allowance from the Social Department of the City Administration. Tõrva also pays the allowance for a child going to school for the first time, so does Valga. The amount of the Valga Retirement Support shall be EUR 100. It's very different in the municipalities, and of course I didn't have time to read you all the data. There are a lot of municipalities. But in the context of today's draft, what matters is that, as you can well see, the conditions are different. I would like to stress once again that the grant is still intended only for the first grade in most municipalities. The problem is also that for certain reasons it does not reach very many children and the amount paid is different in size.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U177	Thank you very much. Jaak Allik, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U178	Dear waitress, You gave a very detailed overview of the views expressed in the Commission meeting on this issue. But I'd like to hear about it at a somewhat general level. In the Commission, the differences in the worldview of political parties and the views on this very important social issue discussed by the Commission clearly emerged. Would you tell us exactly the different views expressed in the Commission from the perspective of the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U179	The fundamental difference in world view is evident in the position of whether it is necessary to support all children, whether all children are important to the Estonian state, or whether it is necessary to support children on the basis of some criteria. Let's take a need-based family allowance. In this Chamber, as well as in the Commission, it was stressed that needs-based family support will help more than 70,000 children in Estonia. It has now been applied for by less than a thousand families, and today it is June 20th, so there is still ten days to ask the local government for this money. It is quite obvious that this so-called need-based nine euros is the amount that most people in Estonia are embarrassed to go to municipal or municipal government with a hat in their hands to prove their poverty. As I pointed out last night on the speaker's desk, most of the questioners are women, mothers. If I had to do it, it would be really, really embarrassing. If you're still a workman, go to work, fill your hours, maybe raise your children alone, live in so-called hard-working poverty, that means you go to work, but still live barely enough, then go to a small area where everyone knows, to beg for nine euros for their children, it's embarrassing. That is why universal child support, which is intended for all children, is very important, and which certainly gives a signal in society that every child is welcome. This will prevent children from being labelled and will give us the right direction to move towards the Nordic countries, not towards Greece and the rest of southern Europe. As for the perspective of the world, I recall the great promise that it will be restored when the good times return. It is now said that the good times have come back, but it is said that there is no need for squish support. This is the subject of discussion that we had, and the same way that the budget is still taking money for needs-based family support. With this support, the so-called pot content was not to be redistributed in the Ministry. However, if you want to receive a pack allowance designed to support all families when they go to school, you are opposed to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U180	For the sake of the stenogram, I'm just going to make it clear that today is the 19th and 20th of June isn't coming until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U181	We'll discuss it again on June 20th anyway. But thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U182	Just so there's no confusion when someone reads the verbogram. Please, Helmen Hunter, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U183	Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Commission. I can assure you that you really gave a very thorough overview of everything that was going on in the Commission, which was the subject of the debate there. I only have one request. Since not all of our colleagues are members of the Social Affairs Committee and several of my colleagues have asked me whether the development plan for children and families was also under discussion in the Commission in the course of the corridor discussion, perhaps you will explain this. Perhaps this would give an answer, which is why the Centre Party Group has initiated this draft. I would just like to ask you, for the sake of the verbatim and for the explanation of my fellow Members who do not belong to the Social Committee, to give a small amount of information on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U184	In fact, no matter what we talk about in the Commission, when the opposition draft is under discussion, the ambassadors of coalition parties always arrive at the fact that we now have a development plan for children and families for the years 2012 to 2020 and that solves all the problems. And we have a whole series of books. They're talking about green books at first, but if they do, maybe there'll be other colored books. I'm afraid we don't get to work most of the time. I remember very well that when we discussed needs-based child support, the questions about where this amount is taken, the nine euros, whether a study has been carried out, whether it is due to the development plan for children and families, were not able to answer. It's strange. I would also like to say a few words about the development plan for children and families. When we look at what is written in it, we will see that it is clearly stated that the development plan for children and families 2012 has been aimed at all children and families living on the territory of Estonia, regardless of gender, nationality, race, language, religion, world view, social origin, wealth, place of residence and family form. Everyone must be able to grow and live in a secure and human-friendly environment. This development plan also states that children's and family policies affect almost every Estonian and are either indirectly or directly related to all areas of life from birth to death. The development plan attaches great importance to the fact that the contribution to the well-being of children and families is reflected sooner or later in public health, education, crime, employment and economic development. Studies also show that the child's growth environment determines to a significant extent his or her future prospects. Adults who have had a troubled childhood are more likely to be violent and antisocial, have mental and physical health problems, have low intellectual abilities and low educational attainment and may not be able to cope economically. When we talk about spending, whether we should spend more on children, giving them priority, it is important not to think that this EUR 28 does not mean anything. If a child doesn't even have a coat when he goes to school, so he has to go to school with a plastic bag, for example, others will know how to make fun of him, and he'll remember it for the rest of his life. The development plan states that the last 20 years have shown that dealing with the consequences, to a large extent, is not a sustainable solution; rather, it encourages a build-up of problems and therefore requires increasing funding. There is also talk of the situation that has led to the current child and family policies, and it emphasises that it has focused in particular on mitigating the symptoms of different problems, while addressing the causes has been more neglected. That is why the development plan focuses on a preventive approach and early intervention at all levels, which requires agreements between all parties, on which the well-being of children and families is also achieved. A common vision and a long-term consistent policy are essential. As Mailis Reps said earlier: if we give support one day, take the other day, it will certainly not work well for family security. In the same year of the cut-off, when parents were deprived of the opportunity to receive the package allowance before school began, the amount paid to the parent on the maintenance sheet was also reduced from 100% to 80% of the salary, which was also a step backwards from the point of view of families with children. Imagine a situation where a parent who receives a minimum wage must be at home with a sick child, so he gets much less money than when he goes to work. And if he has to buy another medicine for his child, he will probably have to choose whether to leave the sick little child home alone or buy him some medicine.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U185	Ladies and gentlemen, I am still asking that we stick to what is being discussed in the Commission. We are now starting to give an overview of the development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U186	We are not discussing the development plan. We are talking about something that is very important in Estonia's situation, and we are talking about the future of children. Only with a common vision and a long-term consistent policy can it be ensured that children have a high-quality childhood and good development opportunities to break the vicious circle of poverty and inequality, as well as ignorance and incompetence. These children too should survive in the future, get a good job, so that they do not live on the rest of the benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U187	Thank you very much. Marika Tuus-Laul, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U188	It was a question of the Commission's debate. The Commission wanted to know very clearly from the Social Ministry's official how the issue of rennet support has been dealt with in particular in one municipality or another. Interest was expressed as to the amount of the grannage allowances, whether they are for first-class entrants only, or whether they are paid up to the end of upper secondary school or comprehensive school. I can't find exactly the information on the Virumaa right now. It's about Rakvere, and I'll tell you about Rakvere, I understand you're interested in Lääne-Virumaa. Children entering the first class are paid 64 euros of school leave allowance and, in addition, Rakvere pays additional school allowance for the children of the underprivileged families. Payment is made both to first graders and to uninsured families. If the child and at least one of his parents live in Rakvere, the city of Rakvere, registered in the Estonian Population Information System, and the family is underinsured, is eligible for school allowance. A family whose net income per family member per month is less than EUR 153,4 after deduction of the standard housing costs, which are documented on the basis of the income, is considered to be unsecure. This is the situation in Rakvere.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U189	Thank you very much. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U190	Dear waitress, I want to tell you first, don't take those personal pricks to heart. You have to understand Maret Maripuu. On 22 October 2008, he was the minister who came here before the Riigikogu and said that the grant for the ranch should be abolished. At the time, he also said that without it, life is bad, but it has to be done. In your report, you said that Margus Tsahkna attacked the initiator with the idea that perhaps the amount of the pack subsidy proposed in the draft is too small. Indeed, it was 450 kroons, now it is proposed to pay the same amount in euro, but since then there has been a very significant price increase in Estonia: 4.2% last year and 5.1% before that. What did the government departments propose? If this size is too low, what amount would be sufficient? And are they really aware of how the prices of school supplies have changed during the overall price increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U191	Indeed, the price increase has been significant. Recently, a parent approached me and told me that a number of years ago the story was probably from 2008 to 2008 that he was doing very well with his children, even though his salary was just a little higher than the minimum wage at the time. But now it's gotten really crazy. This is also because the child benefit has remained essentially unchanged for 10 years. He has two children, both children are paid 19 euros a month and a little more. He said that it was too little and asked why the Riigikogu did not deal with the growth of child support for all children. Why do you have to go and ask for needs-based family support? It's very humiliating. He also said that whatever you take, the grant before the school year begins is absolutely necessary. It's still worth more money in the summer. It's not wasted, it's spent. If the family's income is low, then often all the money is spent in the summer and in the autumn there is real trouble, you must take out a loan to send the child to school.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U192	Igor Gräzin, push the button! [[Igor Gräzini from the intercession hall.]] But let's get the answer! Easy, easy!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U193	Thanks if you know when I answered!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U194	Are you finished or are you still answering that question?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U195	I'll let Igor Gräzini talk, let him speak!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U196	Please, Igor Gräzin, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U197	Thank you, it was a wise decision right now! I wanted to ask whether we have any technical opportunity to replace the Commission's waitress. He's just tired. I sat and listened to him on TV, he's spreading expressions, telling personal recollections that a parent came to see me, and so on. My parents come to see me, and if you let me share your memories, you can stay here and listen. You have memories, I have memories. And then you start a sentence like that, so, unfortunately, it didn't happen, even though we were really hoping. Who hoped, the Commission or anyone else? They found it's humiliating, but who found it, you or the Commission? Jne. In short, I think this conversation should be stopped sooner or later. You're tired, I understand you very well, and you have a lot to talk about. Perhaps there is someone in the Commission who would be able to say that yes or no, we discussed this, we did not discuss it. It's not complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U198	Thank you, Igor Gräzin! Thank you for this procedural remark. I couldn't figure out if it was a question or not, if you asked me if we had a technical opportunity like this. It is for the Social Affairs Committee to decide, there is no chairman of the Social Affairs Committee here at the moment. If he decides to call a meeting, he'll probably let us know. We're moving on right now. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U199	Dear waitress, I am interested in the position taken by the Minister of Social Affairs and the Ministry on this draft tabled by the Group of the Centre Party. You presented the Commission's debate to the Minister's complaint that no source of cover has been mentioned. At the same time, our draft is due to enter into force from 1 January 2014 and it would be possible to take this into account when drawing up the budget for next year. Would you please present the Ministry's position more broadly in the context of this bill? And how serious was the debate on finding this money cover in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U200	Thank you very much. Please, Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U201	Good colleague! We found out nicely that the Ministry was given a bag of money, and if they take something away from someone, there's something we can give someone else, and vice versa. Did you not discuss this issue on the basis of the fact that, 15 years ago or more, when we had a lower budget than we do now, we had this school grant, or school grant, but now that the budget is much bigger, if we have European money to use and dividends from business, this small grant has been taken away and the family allowance has been made needs-based, or changed, for cripplement? What kind of picture do you think our government and country will get, and how do you appreciate the current child, family and school benefits system?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U202	Thank you. Before I allow you to answer, Väino Linde's word will become a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U203	I have such a procedural question whether the President should not call the rapporteur quite seriously, so that those who are interested in the draft with the number mark 435 can have an overview of the discussion in the committee. The waitress is just distracting from the subject. It's really hard to watch him like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U204	Thank you. Surely the manager has this opportunity, and he has used it repeatedly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U205	Thank you, Väino! You weren't on the committee and you weren't in the hall before...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U206	Good answer, let us not enter into dialogue with the author of the procedural question. Please, you can answer Marika Tuus-Laul's question now!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U207	But I can also answer Väino Linde's question. Väino, do you want me to talk about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U208	A procedural question, sorry, Heljo, had been submitted to the President of the sitting. Marika Tuus-Laul asked you a substantive question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U209	All right, I'll answer Marika Tuus-Laul. In fact, I would like to say that all the signals from the government now show that families with children are not much cared for. No matter what is said, the development plan does not give more money to families with children. There is a need for concrete, firm measures with which, unfortunately, we have what we have. We take away income support and child support, which the Social Democrats have proposed several times in the Riigikogu. The government has not taken account of this draft, and children in such families are still living in poverty. As far as the need-based family allowance is concerned, as you heard yesterday in this Chamber, even this nine euro may not reach the children of all families who receive income support. It is confirmed that if the country's economy grows, if the country comes with more money, the people will also be richer. People expect wages and allowances to increase, and I am thinking of family benefits here. But unfortunately, that's not gonna happen. We very much hoped that child support would rise to EUR 57 per month for the first and second children. After all, there are a large number of families with only one or two children. Unfortunately, that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U210	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U211	Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Commission. Three years ago, you have said: 'Over Estonia there are thousands of families who do not have enough money to buy school supplies and textbooks for children. The Minister of Education could worry about the learning conditions of these children and not fantasize at a government press conference on homo textbooks. ' Do you share this view today, and was it mentioned in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U212	Of course, that is also the subject today. All children need support, not just a certain part. When we look at parental benefit, it is primarily the richer families that will be part of it, and the poorer families will also be left in the orphan's part when they receive it. Several international organisations have drawn attention to the fact, and we also know that in Estonia, children in pampersia are mainly supported, but in the future, let families themselves see how their children can cope. Again, I will give an example of Tartu. It is, of course, very good that we are given nearly EUR 750 until the children are two years old, but after that, even when the child goes to school, the family, who lives in poverty, must ask for support from the city government. Then it won't be any more for every child. Those are the choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U213	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U214	Honourable waitress! With the increase in wealth inequalities in Estonia, the problems of various support systems have returned to the agenda. One example is informal care. We love to give many examples elsewhere in Europe. Are there countries in Europe from which Estonia could learn?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U215	Honourable waitress! The Viru people have asked me, as a vigilante elected from Virumaa, about public family benefits. It turns out that people do not have an overview of their county benefits and, to be honest, I do not have an accurate picture of this either, because I am unfortunately not a member of the Social Affairs Committee. But I know the Social Affairs Committee has a very thorough record of the state of affairs in Viru County. I'm gonna ask you to unravel it as thoroughly as possible. At the same time, I understand that there have been some shortcomings in this comprehensive explanation. However, I would ask for a brief overview of Virumaa in relation to the National Family Benefits Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U216	I would point out that this was not a question of the Commission's debate. There's a waitress from the Commission before you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U217	Are you talking about family care? Now that we've gotten to our own care, I think of course we could learn. We will take Sweden and Finland, even as close as possible. There it is possible for all elderly people to be at home even if they are quite bedridden. The local government will make sure that the so-called diapers are replaced so that they have a full stomach, clean floors, etc. People have a choice whether to go to a nursing home or at home. And people can handle pensions. It is not the case that children have to pay the home allowance, etc. In any case, from birth to death, a person in the Nordic countries is well-designed. It is not in vain for our people to go to work in the nearest countries, I mean Finland, Sweden, Norway and other countries. One reason is definitely salary, the other reason is a decent pension if they ever return to Estonia. Some 50 - year - old and older people think that for this decent pension, they can be in a nursing home or take personal care of their home. They also go to the Nordic countries because it is better to raise children there. There is a system that ensures that families with children do not fall into poverty. There are decent child benefits, it is guaranteed that all children will receive an education of interest, and children will also have equal educational opportunities. Do you live in a municipality or city, still everything has been done to make sure that children get a proper school education and more or less the same starting position, no one is left in trouble there. There is also a well-organised reconciliation of work and family life.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U218	Thank you very much. Just in case, I'm reminding you this is a school grant issue. Questions to the rapporteur could be limited to the issues concerning the discussion of this draft within the Commission. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U219	Dear waitress, To be honest, I have not yet heard such a comprehensive overview of the Commission's work in this Chamber. The presentation of the Commission's work was very thorough, but at the same time I did not understand what the Commission decided on how to find a solution to the problems. I have just read the news today that according to Eurostat, the standard of living of Estonian residents in the Baltic States is the lowest. Considering all our problems, the question arises as to how Estonian families, children and older students should cope in the future. What is the Commission's position on how to find a solution to this? Is it supposed to leave Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U220	We did not discuss the departure from Estonia directly in the Commission. But yes, if we look at the results of the census, we will see that there are nearly 76000 people less than ten years ago. These figures show the current trend in Estonia that we are on our way to a country without our people. There are slightly less than 900000 Estonians living in Estonia. The question arises as to why people go abroad, why children are not born in Estonia. Here is the one and only answer: the state does not care about its people; as a country, we live as a play or pseudolife, and we only rely on some abstract indicators. If we continue to do so, we will also take away from future generations the opportunity to do something bigger in this country, because we have remained so thinly. More and more people are leaving. We don't have enough doctors and sisters. I have also heard that kindergarten teachers, or kindergarten teachers, have started going abroad. This is really going to be the problem of raising our children here. But maybe at some point no one needs to be raised when children are less and less born. After all, we now have the number of women of childbearing age at the top, there are more than 200,000, but as the studies show, in just a few decades, the number will decrease so much that there will be 70,000 fewer women in childbirth. It is especially sad that even the first children are not born now. There is certainly one reason for this, which has greatly reduced our people's confidence in the future. In the course of the studies, people have been asked what would ensure the survival of the Estonian people, which would ensure that at least 2 or 3 children are born into the family at the moment, we have an average number of children below 1.5, and, as a hindrance to the fact that the country's material support is low. So 50% of respondents have responded. There is fear that they will not be able to provide their children with a decent childhood and provide proper education.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U221	Thank you very much. I am forced to remind you that, please, we will remain within the scope of the Commission's debate. A procedural question, please, Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U222	Mr President, I would ask you to remind the Commission's co-rapporteur, which is his current role as co-rapporteur. I also attended the same committee meeting, where the subject of this item was discussed for ten minutes. We didn't get to the development plan for children and families, we didn't get to informal care, and we didn't talk about parental benefits. Perhaps the honourable Commission's co-rapporteur could be reminded of what his role is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U223	Thank you very much for your attention. I've done it many times. Looks like it's not gonna make it. But we'll keep going. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U224	Honourable waitress! I will put my question within the framework of the subject as requested by the President of our sitting. Was the general European situation in this area discussed at the Commission meeting? I have the impression that the crisis has called for a practical change in the social and economic model. I am not only talking about the countries of southern Europe now, I am also talking about the north, our neighbours, because they are also short of money to organise it. However, it is not a question of wallets and lack of money at the moment; the question is that this bill is like a test that shows our future in this area. Did you have any discussion in that direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U225	As I have already said, and as you know very well yourself, for the third year in a row, the Centre Party Group has tabled a draft before the start of the new academic year in order to re-establish the subsidy for the country, this time for an amount of EUR 28 77 cents. They have justified the presentation of the draft by the fact that the child's schooling is expensive and that the child should be supported at least 1. To class, in other words, to the end of primary school. This amount would be paid by the State and guaranteed to all children. For children younger than 7 and older than 16 years but on the school list, it must be demonstrated that they attend school. If the draft was adopted, EUR 3.92 million would be needed. When we talk about what we discussed in the Commission, I say that we have had a number of questions, including the question of where to take this EUR 3.92 million. It was found that the budget has not yet been submitted to the Riigikogu and so it is not right to talk about taking it. The question also arose where money was taken for need-based family support. The answer was that it was a political decision, which means, as we all know, that money would be found. The Central Party Group also hoped, when presenting its draft, to reach a political decision that this money would still be found and that, from 1 September 2014, children from all families, be they first, others, third, etc., would receive school support at the beginning of the school year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U226	I can answer you, Igor Gräzini I can't answer. All I'm saying is, I'm not tired at all, Igor Gräzin is tired. You can see it right in the face. But that's it. Just please don't worry about me. You're pointing your finger at yourself right now. But I'm gonna keep going. We did not really discuss whether the grant should be needs-based or not. We were discussing that there could be a subsidy for everyone. But in order for Igor Gräzini to understand everything, I will explain that the principle set out in draft 435 of the Centre Party Group has a different understanding among the members of the Commission. The Social Democrats and the Central Party were of the opinion that the support for the coast had to be restored. I also read the names of the people who were at the committee meeting earlier, including what kind of party they belong to, so that you, Igor, would know exactly what it was. I'm glad you watched it on TV. I'm not going to read it again right now. You don't have to? Thank you. In general, we know who was against this bill, and this is where it's coming from.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U227	Thank you very much. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U228	Dear waitress, You said you had been approached by a lot of parents. Igor Gräzin said that he too had been approached by parents. And parents have approached me and many others on the same subject. In addition, I have met my former teachers, and a teacher said he was wearing candy in his pocket. I asked him why he was doing it. He said if a kid comes to school and doesn't have a pin, a pencil, or anything else, he'll give the kid some candy to comfort him. The child's mind is getting happier. I'm sure you have written, called, e-mailed letters on the subject that children's inequality is high and the whole school system is underfunded. Family benefits are all very low. What do local governments and councils write? What do they think, should the packback be restored?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U229	Thank you for your question. I am very pleased that you, too, are listening to the voters and are receptive to their concerns. I'm so sorry about Igor. The voters will turn to him, but I don't know if he's listening or not listening. He doesn't seem to listen to their concerns, and that's a real shame. It's a good thing he told me today what that attitude is. I must speak today, as a representative of the Social Affairs Committee, about what is happening in the Committee on Social Affairs and I assure you that, of course, our committee has also been written. Perhaps I do not have this type of letter from the grant and I do not want to start improvising here, but it is written about children's concerns, and it is precisely that the benefits should be higher, the children should be more supportive, the children should be given a more equal opportunity, the starter pack from which the children start should be more equal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U230	Thank you very much. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U231	Mailis Reps probably already introduced what the Government of the Republic thought about the draft of the Central Party Group on the amendment of the National Family Benefits Act. The number of the bill is 435. But the audience in this room has changed, Mr. Igor Gräzin has arrived, and I repeat. During the session of 6 June 2013, the Government of the Republic did not support the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, initiated by the Central Party Group of the Riigikogu, addressed as item 3 3.2, for the following reasons. The school allowance is an annual allowance for children starting a new school year. The grant is intended specifically to cover the costs of going to school. The costs of studying and going to school are also incurred by families during the school year, so the government has decided to support certain target groups every month. From 1 July of this year, child benefit will increase to EUR 76.72 per month from the third child of the family. Children in families living below the absolute poverty line will receive needs-based family support from 1 July of this year. There is a mistake here, by the way, in fact it will be paid if it is a family living below the limit of relative poverty. From 1 January 2015, the third and more children's allowance will increase to EUR 95,9 per month and the need-based family allowance will double. These measures will help to ensure the daily livelihood of families throughout the school year. One-off support does not affect child poverty, nor does it have an impact on the birth rate. The implementation of the draft would lead to an increase in state budget expenditure of around EUR 4 million per year and no additional cost coverage sources have been identified in the draft explanatory memorandum. As a result, we had a discussion about how much local governments pay in the first grade, whether they are paid only to first-class children or whether they are paid to older schoolchildren at the beginning of the school year, and whether they are paid only to those who need support because they live in poverty, or whether they all get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U232	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, second question! I'm sorry! Igor Gräzin, please press the button if you want to ask a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U233	I have a request to make a comment to the waitress. The point is that the personal attacks of a representative of the Commission against my political views are vile. I certainly feel no worse about my constituents than the woman on the board, and in this respect I hope that she will apologise to me. You see, the point is that for me the debate on this topic is not a place for political propaganda and picking up political points. In my opinion, this is an extremely dramatic and extremely serious social issue which must be discussed responsibly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia. That's all I've said. To attribute everything else to me is humanly very ugly. Please make a note of that to the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U234	Thank you, Igor Gräzin! I would like to thank you for this comment, but I would like to remind you that, unfortunately, in the round of questions and answers, the lines relating to the person have no place. This is allowed during the negotiations. Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U235	I have a procedural remark, Mr President. The Commission's rapporteur has long gone beyond the limits of the debate in the Commission. These issues, which have been discussed, have long been tabled here, so I think that the chair of the sitting could call the Commission's rapporteur to order.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U236	Honourable waitress! I was seriously shocked by the fact that the Commission wants to reject a draft which would help to alleviate the often pretty difficult situation of families with children. But then I remembered that your committee chairman has repeatedly stated that the coalition is prevented from resolving the problems of families with children by the fact that children do not have the right to vote. Therefore, the coalition has no motivation to deal with the problems of children and families with children. Parents should be given an additional vote for their children. During the Commission's discussion with those coalition ambassadors who so harshly decided to reject this draft, did you say that if children or parents had an extra vote in the elections, they would have voted differently to decide on the fate of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U237	As I recall, this has been mentioned in the Commission, as well as in this Chamber. From the mouths of the members of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, including Margus Tsahkna, there has often been a statement that children should have the right to vote, that the situation in the country would improve. But let's see what we're allowed here! It has been said that when the economy grows, all people living in Estonia will be part of it, the situation of children will improve, etc. However, as we can see, this small amount cannot be separated from the national budget by four million to pay the tunic allowance for children going to school on 1 September. As far as children's right to vote is concerned, I don't know when to give it to them, from when to when to when to be a baby? But yes, if children can't go to practice, then 12 to 13 years old and some parents are gonna tell Mom and Dad that don't vote for this party, don't believe these promises, I can't ride a bike, I can't skate, I can't go to practice here or there. I think, in some ways, it would be quite interesting to see what the result would be if children had the right to vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U238	Thank you very much. Please, Urve Palo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U239	Thank you very much to the waitress for her meaningful and brave performance. It has been said here today that the amount of the subsidy is paid once a year and that the amount is so small that it is very important at all. That is why I ask whether it was discussed in the Commission that perhaps there could be an increase in universal child support, which has been on the same level for a month and almost ten years. Maybe we could triple it. Was that what we were talking about? Was it offered as an alternative? And second, please refresh my memory, how many times have the Social Democrats proposed that universal child support be tripled over the last two years?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U240	Yes, we have, of course, discussed the triple of child support many times in the Committee on Social Affairs. The Social Democrats have proposed this five times, but the government departments have always rejected it on the grounds that there is no money. In the case of the coast subsidy, there was an objection that it was a one-off grant at the beginning of the school year and therefore it does not need to be increased. If the child benefit had tripled, it would, of course, have helped all children throughout the school year. I think both measures are crucial. As I said before, the Centre Party came up with a smaller amount. They explained that they were very cautious and did not want to offer more money, then maybe the draft does not pass through the Riigikogu. Now it would be four million, but next autumn, probably three times more would be needed for all children to receive it at the beginning of the school year. If the proposal of the Social Democrats to triple child support had gone through, it would have been a very clear sign that every child is important that we support children. If we are to introduce a law on public family benefits, it is clear that raising and training all children must be supported. That's why we have the law on family benefits. If the child benefit had been tripled, i.e. the first and other children of the family would have received 57 euros a month, the parents' lives would be much easier and happier throughout the school year because they could send the child to a circle of interest, the child would be better fed, and this throughout the school year. Similarly, this pack subsidy is absolutely necessary, and I am not tired of repeating it. Every measure for the benefit of children is crucial. Unfortunately, at the time of the depression, we took away the package allowance, which was meant for everyone, and we replaced the need-based family allowance, which is not for everyone. It's not a good direction, it's not a good signal for parents.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U241	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U242	Good Social Affairs Committee waitress! As far as the State Family Benefits Act is concerned, of course, it includes an integral part of the development plan for children and families 2012 to 2020. We have understood very clearly during today's discussion that the development plan has been adopted, but the objectives it sets are simply not being met. One very good example is that the development plan points out, as one recommendation, that universal child support needs to be increased, but not done. The Social Democrats have submitted several drafts, the content of which is to triple child benefit. Do you know how to bring out any other important recommendations from the development plan that are simply not being implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U243	The question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U244	In fact, I have started to think about a few questions here in the wider Commission. Perhaps the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu should be amended so that all members of the committee have the right to say who can attend the meetings. When we discuss one or the other draft opposition, representatives of interest groups are not usually invited to the Commission's meeting. When we discuss a government bill that changes something a little, there will always be lobbyists, but not when something is taken away from someone. It is very important that the interest groups also know what we are applying for here in the Riigikogu, which drafts we are submitting, so that they say their word. Perhaps saying interest groups would also make coalition ambassadors think. I think it is very important to make the meetings public, and the Social Democrats have also tabled a legislative amendment that would make the meetings of the Riigikogu committees public, so that representatives of third sector umbrella organisations in particular, whenever the draft concerning them is discussed in the Riigikogu, would have the right to attend a committee meeting, whether it is a coalition or a opposition draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U245	Thank you very much. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U246	That's a good question! In fact, our agenda is set by the chairman of the committee, and we do not have much say there. Unfortunately, the chairman of the committee did not invite important cooperation partners. This has happened before that the people who should be present at the committee meeting are not present, while a number of people are involved, who I am not saying should not be present, but who are not saying anything. There can always be more, very nice when there are many participants. After all, there are several officials in the Commission and there are often people from outside the Commission, sometimes many times more than the members of the Commission themselves. However, many have had nothing to say at the Commission meeting, all the more so when nothing has been asked of them. I don't want to hurt anyone, but I'm amazed when people are left uninvited to say something and who we have something to ask, who possess the subject and probably know how to move life forward. It's not easy for local governments right now. It is a good thing that this part of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which concerns support specialists, is currently out of the question, otherwise there would have been another additional obligation for local authorities. If we want our children to get on at school, have a teacher's assistant, a logo beet, so that all children can speak properly, etc., this should have been guaranteed by local government money. The necessary amount in Tartu would have been EUR 500000. If such an obligation is imposed, then once again, the issue of how much and where we take away money will be on the agenda in the municipalities. Good question, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U247	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U248	Honourable waitress! Thank you for your meaningful answers. The debate on such a sensitive and important issue must be very thorough. Nobody in this hall has anything against public support for families. If the Coalition does not consider the subsidy to be an appropriate measure, did they propose any alternative, more suitable, better ways of doing so in the Commission's debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U249	I can't get over or around the national development plan for children and families. This is an appropriate measure according to this development plan, and it is also an appropriate measure in a number of books that are green. I would stress that the development plan for children and families 2012 to 2020 is absolutely necessary, very well drafted, and we very much hope that it will make a difference in Estonia. Of course, there is a great deal of euro money that is currently helping us to implement something. However, the measures to replace the pack subsidy are not proposed by the Members of the Commission who opposed us to moving forward with the pack subsidy. That, of course, is a pity. As we well remember, for two years, the need-based child support has been heavily clocked. They say it's a reform of children's benefits. I think that reform could have been mentioned, even if it were to be put in place, that would have at least affected every child. But what reform is it when support does not reach many and, in essence, does not improve the situation of very many families? Before you go into poverty, it is only then that you have to rely on the state to help you, and I mean families with children. This is definitely not the signal our people are waiting for. Our people expect that, if they have children, the state will support these children in some way. Children need support, it is also stated in the Family Benefits Act, I mean support for raising children and going to school.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U250	Thank you very much. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U251	The rapporteur addressed the issue of statesmen. It made me think more deeply about life. Indeed, we have not touched on one aspect when we talk about the support for the pack today. If we throw the coaster support overboard with the coaster, couldn't it be that in this unsupported coast, there is a length of marsals for some boy or girl, which, because of the cynicism of statesmen, has not been allowed to become a reality?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U252	Thank you, very good question! I need to think about what I'm gonna say right now. There are several ways to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U253	Reply as discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U254	I'm trying to remember that. Of course, if a child has a feeling of deprivation, if a child can't go out with his or her friends, because he or she doesn't have any money, part of us might think that he or she doesn't have to go out, if a child can't go on birthdays, hobby circles, etc., or if he or she doesn't have proper shoes in school, and others are making fun of him or her, then, of course, I totally agree with you, it might happen that a child doesn't want to go to school. We all know it's the boys' dropout from middle school that we have.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U255	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U256	Good waitress! I actually think I know the answer to that question, but I want to check my impression. In fact, after the debate in the Commission, I had the impression that, in fact, the coalition was very clear on what decision they were going to take. The whole debate was very apparent and lasted if my memory did not deceive me, seven or 11 minutes, certainly no more. No representatives of the interest groups had been invited. Do you think it was a debate or a procedural procedure that just had to be done for a bird?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U257	Good waitress! There have really been many questions, as we have just said, and the debate on this point has been going on well over 24 hours a day. Listening to this debate, you could sum up by saying that I think the questioners are often confused as to what bill we are talking about and what the point of this bill is. In order for everyone to understand that this is not a PGS, would you be so good as to conclude by summing up why this law is needed and what would change when it was adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U258	I'm trying to find the draft text, but I'm afraid I can't find it and then I'll talk to you in the head. The initiators of the draft act explained in the Commission the need to amend the law by allowing all children to benefit from Estonian rennet support at the beginning of the school year. As you are well aware, many local authorities pay the gravy grant, but only for first-class entrants. The Centre Party's draft includes children who attend 1. in grade 1: any child who studies in primary school or enters grade 1 would receive a school grant at the beginning of the school year. The amount of the border allowance of 28 euros 77 cents is due to the fact that the Central Party faction is more or less certain that if they come out with such a smaller amount, all other members of the Riigikogu will join their proposal and from 2014 all children will receive the grant before the school year begins. We also dealt with the Commission, I repeat, how much it would cost the country. It would cost a little less than EUR 4 million. For what this support is needed, there was also a debate in the Commission. This is needed to help families cope with the costs associated with the beginning of the school year in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U259	Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U260	Good waitress! It was very pleasant to follow this whole discussion through the monitor and to see Indrek Saar reach out his helping hand to Aivar Sõerd. I, in turn, would help Indrek. It's like I didn't hear the answer to the question of what you're doing on the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U261	I'll answer questions from the questioners, just like you when you're on the remote. I'm not just standing there, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U262	Please, Mr Luigas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U263	Dear waitress, thank you very much for your comprehensive answers. As I sit here today and listen to questions and answers, I understand why many coalition politicians have become so anxious and even walked away from this hall. I mean, there is a problem and the problem cannot be resolved today, so we must come back to this issue again in the autumn. You have been acting as a waitress from the Commission on this board. Do you have anything else to add to your end?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U264	I'm still asking you to stay within the scope of the role! There is currently a rapporteur from the Commission who should speak about what has happened in the Commission. And personal opinions have certainly been expressed for such a long time. So please, let's stick to this! Mr Pikhof, if you would like to respond, please! But we'd still stick to what role you're in right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U265	I am in exactly the same role as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Sven Sester, when he defends what was discussed at the meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Of course I'll answer the question. Let's put it this way: if the grant is not mature in the sense that not all members of the Riigikogu or most of the Riigikogu support it, then I suggest that the Centre Party Group submit this draft again and since time goes on, of course, by offering more funding. These €28 77 cents in 2015 would already be considerably lower for families than is currently the case. I very much hope that you will do so, and the Social Democrats will support you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U266	Please, colleague Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U267	Indeed, at meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs, repeated proposals for grants are presented at certain intervals, be they school allowances, funeral allowances or grants for the entire life of a person. There's still a lack of car support. But I'd like to clarify something. We are talking about 28 euros of support here. What does a school child get for 28 euros? What can we use it to improve? What is involved, for example, in better learning success or something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U268	Thank you, George! I agree with you, of course, that EUR 28 is very little support. But in poor families, it's 28 euros of very big money. With this money, you can definitely buy some notebooks and pencils, if you go to a discount shop, buy some clothes for your child. There's still something you can get for it. In any case, it helps families. As parents have confirmed, and we have discussed in this Chamber, it will cost at least 100 euros for a child to go to school, and indeed only for one child. That support would then, let's say, one quarter of the parent's expense, and we're not talking about having to pay for everything to the parents. Of course, it is a small amount, the aid should be much higher. And I would have been very pleased if you had proposed in the Commission that school support should be, for example, EUR 57 or even more.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U269	Please, Mr. Indrek Saar, you must have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U270	Mr President, this procedural question concerns the question of Inara Luigas. He asked, in particular, what was the Commission's personal opinion on the draft law under discussion. Can you explain to all of us, as the senior chairman of the Riigikogu, on the basis of which point of the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure you restrict the right of a member of the Riigikogu to publish it as a committee rapporteur if he or she remains within the framework of a particular subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U271	The representative of the Commission shall always report what was discussed during the meeting of the Commission. That is why he is the Commission's waitress. If Mrs Pikhof wishes to say what she personally thinks of the draft, she will have the opportunity to come and speak when negotiations are taking place. Let's keep these two things apart, shall we? Please, a procedural question, Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U272	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! It is quite strange that I, who I am for the first time in Parliament, must quote to you, who are already here as Chairman of several formations, the Riigikogu's home and working procedures. Paragraph 98 (2) of the Law states that the general principles of the draft are discussed at first reading. In all of Paragraph 98 concerning both the originator's report and the Commission's report, there is no mention in half that the Commission's rapporteur should only deal with what happened in the Commission. This applies to second reading, this is the first reading of the draft, and the rapporteur from the Commission is also entitled to express his personal position. This is set out in § 98 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act and I ask the President of the sitting to comply with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U273	Please, Mr Jüri Jaanson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U274	Thank you for your answer to the first question. However, I would point out that the point of my question was rather the rational circumstances in which a specific amount was written down. If we are saying that the total cost of going to school for a child is about EUR 100, why did the Commission receive a draft of EUR 28? What's it coming from? And why is it not, for example, 57 euros or 55.13 euros or something like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U275	Please, Mr Indrek Saar, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U276	It's hard to answer that question. If you're lying in a coffin, I don't think you're thinking about the future. But in any case, this support would help those people who have to send the deceased on his final journey. The income of many families is not enough to do this, and the support of the state would certainly be necessary. Many people really don't have enough money to put the deceased in the ground. I think that funeral allowance is very necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U277	Thank you for your comment. The Chair has done so on several occasions. You can see how many times it's been done. Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U278	Dear colleague, we are discussing a rather serious issue relating to the National Family Benefits Act. In my opinion, we can talk in this connection about the support for the coaster, children's summer camp leave, children's food, etc. I regret that the Commission's debate was such that ten minutes were discussed and disbanded. We've been debating for three or four hours, and you can see how many questions there are. My question is that the family benefit system in force in Estonia obviously does not satisfy the needs of households. The general picture of the family benefit system should therefore be looked at. What changes should Estonia make to the family benefit system? Was this discussed in the Commission, and what do you think of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U279	We have discussed family allowances repeatedly in the Commission. We have discussed the development plan for children and families as well as the relevant implementing acts, and we will certainly do so in the future. But like I said before, at the last meeting, we were discussing a pack subsidy. We discussed whether it would be necessary to introduce it from 1 September next year, so that all children who are going to school in 2014 would receive a school grant at the beginning of the school year. There was more about how much it's gonna cost. These were the topics of the last sitting of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U280	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U281	Many Riigikogu committees cooperate quite constructively in discussing certain issues, as has the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on European Union Affairs and others. It is clear that we are here to find solutions to the problems. In the case of draft law 435 and the 340 on the agenda today, it is clear that both of them are full of problems. Did you try to discuss some things with someone in your committee, such as the Committee on Culture, to find a compromise option, such as compensation? After all, the same idea of school grant, as we say, is that the draft law 340 clearly does not solve these problems. A lot of funding is going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U282	Of course, the matter could also have been discussed with the Committee on Culture. It is quite a pity that the initiator did not make this proposal in the Commission. If we stop discussing the draft today and it comes to this Chamber for the second time, then certainly the draft should also be discussed with the Committee on Culture in order to find good solutions. This is also, in a sense, the subject of the Committee on Culture. One thing is the social aspect of the problem, but the other thing is that all children in school are insured with school supplies so that they have a proper backpack, educational equipment, decent clothes. I think it's a worthwhile idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U283	Thank you very much. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U284	Good waitress! It seems to me that the Committee on Social Affairs does not work in substance. I am not the first day in the Riigikogu, and I have such experience in practice that if there is a risk that you will become too substantive in replying, you will not be appointed rapporteur. How did you manage to convince the Social Affairs Committee to appoint you to report this bill in this Chamber, so now you can talk about things so basically? It seems pretty incredible to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U285	As you can see, I've gotten a lot upset. Turns out the form is more important than the contents. Of course, I consider it important that we discuss matters in this Chamber, whether it is a report by the initiator of the draft or a report by the Commission. It is not quite the case that you keep saying that we did not discuss it in the Commission, and today I am not talking about it in this Chamber. When we look at the way in which the proceedings on the drafts have taken place in the Chamber, very differently members of the Commission have behaved very differently. We'll take Sven Sester. If there have been budgetary discussions and reviews that have taken place at the meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, he has been very creative in this Chamber, and this has been very pleasant. It also expresses its opinion and talks about the experiences of other countries. If he would always stick to a specific subject, it would be very uninteresting to listen. I want to give full credit here to my fellow official Sven Sester, who always, when he gets a chance, tells me everything and more.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U286	Thank you very much. I don't know how the funeral allowance is connected to the school allowance. But let's keep going. Please, Sven Mikser, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U287	Thank you very much. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U288	Good waitress! There has been a pleasant amount of talk here today, and you have also shared a great deal of personal experience. Unfortunately, there is a bit of financial cover in the background. Looks like they're gonna put everything on the government. I ask in a little more specific terms: how much are you willing to pay to support your members of the Riigikogu from their salary to support their families, so that this is enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U289	Thank you, very good question! Both opposition parties, both the Centre Party and the Social Democrats, consider that those who earn more should also pay more tax. We believe that this way we can support our children, university students and so on. For the kids, of course! Another way to find money for children is not to reduce the rate of income tax. We have this opportunity, too, in the hands of this hall. We cannot say that the country has run out of money. No, it's not. But a very good question, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U290	Thank you very much. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U291	Good waitress! A conversation has been repeatedly developed in this Chamber on a conceptual issue such as whether there are advocacy grants or needs-based grants. They are said to make the people very passive, no one wants to develop; everyone only looks at how to be as poor as possible and gets that support. Interestingly, even in the context of the funeral allowance, this has been said. Please tell me whether, in your opinion, the restoration of public funeral support could really make the people of Estonia lazy, so that they want to be well poor and not to develop, compete and look for new challenges in order to be worthy members of a united family of European countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U292	Thank you. I understand the question. On the website of the Government of the Republic as well as in the development plan for children and families, I would like to thank once again the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who have written up a very good development plan, and I very much hope that it will also be implemented, it is said that in 2015 there should be a cumulative birth rate of 1.71. If we look at how life has gone, unfortunately, it has gone in the opposite direction. A few years ago, the total birth rate was 1.62 and I think that if we get data for 2012, this figure will be less than 1.5. The development plan states that the number of children you want is two or three, but in fact, children are less born into families. It is also stated in the government's approved development plan that one of the country's priorities is population growth and positive growth. This objective has been driven by the demographic situation of Estonia and Europe as a whole, characterised by an ageing and shrinking population. Estonia had a population of 1.57 million in the early 1990s, and as of 1 January 2011, it was 1.34 million. Estonia's population is projected to fall to 1.28 million by 2030. Such a prognosis is not commendable at all. Of course, from the perspective of children's and family policy, the reduction in the proportion of the entire underage population, or children up to 17 years of age, is important. At the beginning of the 1990s, the total number of children aged up to 17 was 416000, and by the beginning of 2011 it had fallen to 246000. The difference is obvious. However, no one believes that the Estonian people are going to die out. We hope for the best, we hope that the Estonian people's lives will become positive, although the latest figures do not reflect this trend. In my opinion, there is nothing here that depends on the political outlook. We all want more residents in Estonia. If we look at the years 2020 to 2030, if we look to the future, we hope to see more children there than we do today, both in primary schools, kindergartens and higher education. At present, however, the decline in the number of young people and children has had a major impact on the performance of higher education institutions, with fewer than half of them. If you think about what has an impact on the population, of course, the birth rate, which in turn is influenced by family policy. Also mortality, which is influenced by health policies, and emigration, which is affected by migration policies. Family policy plays an important role in raising the birth rate by creating an appropriate environment for children. Similarly, it is considered very important to have the opportunity to reconcile work and family life so that all children can have a kindergarten place or other affordable childcare facilities for parents after they have reached the age of one and a half so that mothers or fathers who have been at home with the child and have received parental benefit can return to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U293	Thank you very much. I would remind the following questioners that only questions relating to the debate on this point should be asked by the Commission. If the previous questioner had been in the Chamber earlier, he would have heard that the question concerning the development plan had been answered for a long time. Be there another time! Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U294	Dear waitress, I'm sure I'll take your advice into account. I have a very simple question. I look at the clock and I see we've been discussing this point for almost two hours. I have been following this debate all along, and my simple question is very specific. Some delegates may listen to you outside the hall and think along, but still wonders whether or not to support the amendment of the National Family Benefits Act. Could you mention three specific reasons why all doubters should come to this hall and support this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U295	Honourable questioner, as long as not everyone is in the Chamber, we must probably talk about the draft several times and repeat its importance. However, if you answer your question, as I have already said, all the measures we take to deal with families with children are very important. Whether there is a small amount of additional support, it is very important that this support is universal. Indeed, there could be some additional benefits for families living in poverty, but other benefits should be universal. One of them is the pack subsidy. We remember very well that a few years ago we had a pack grant. Parents were delighted that in the autumn, before their children went to school and after their holidays, when money was scarce, there was a guarantee of some amount that would help in purchasing school supplies. Children have certainly grown out of old clothes by autumn, and a lot of money is needed to buy new clothes and shoes. The amount of the coastal aid has never been very high, but it has been helpful. If you are interested in the amount of money that the Central Party Group has proposed, as can be read in the draft, all children who go to the first grade or any other grade in comprehensive school could receive 28 euros at the beginning of the school year and a few more cents. This is considered essential by the initiator of the draft. It would take a little less than four million euros from the state budget. The government representative in the Commission said that in this case they would have to move money like in a pot. But when I asked at the committee meeting how money was then found for needs-based child support, he said it was a political decision. It is very important that we make a statesmanly decision in this Chamber in order to ensure that the grant is in place, for the time being, even in this small amount. We can increase it later.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U296	Thank you very much. Please, Kalvi Tough, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U297	Good judge, I'm trying to follow your lead, too. I will ask about the draft law that we are discussing in the context of the item under discussion. Here's my question. You listed a large number of municipalities in response to one of the questioners, who support their residents with the support of the pack. This list was very long and, to my delight, included my municipality of Rõuge. Thus, for many municipalities, this support is very important, although we know that it is not the task of local governments according to the Local Government Organisation Act. But they still do. This important issue has certainly been discussed both in the Union of Rural Governments and in the Union of Cities. As social partners, did you also include an alliance of cities and rural governments in the draft act and, if not, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U298	Dear waitress, Children studying in primary school, primary school, comprehensive school-based vocational education or upper secondary school were deprived of the ranch allowance by means of one cluster law. It made cuts in seven more socially sensitive areas. The reason was the recession, the money had to be saved. In 2009, when this took place, the income of the Estonian state budget amounted to 85 billion kroons, or 5.4 billion euros. This year, our budget is already EUR 7.5 billion. It's grown considerably. Does the majority of the Social Affairs Committee have any idea of the size of the Estonian state's budget to be increased so that these very necessary social measures can be restored?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U299	I guess we have discussed the Social Democratic Party Group, too, when the happy time will come when our people will also be part of the growth of the state budget. The public budget is growing, but children are still not among the priorities. We recall that when the central party or social democrats have submitted various drafts in the Riigikogu to improve the situation of children, the reason is always that there is no money. As you said very rightly, the state budget is growing, so the money is as it should be. When I recall the time of the depression, I remember that child poverty and social exclusion were discussed in the Riigikogu as a matter of national importance. The Social Democrats proposed a number of drafts that would have alleviated child poverty and exclusion, but none of them were approved. This was at a time when there were more than 120,000 unemployed in Estonia and most families had children. However, we did not even have an overview of the number of children who grew up in the families of the unemployed. Income support has long fallen behind us, and it was not much help in the days of crisis. The EUR 76 for the first family member and the EUR 61 for the other members per month were not easy to cope with. I remember that if I asked the Prime Minister in this Chamber of the Riigikogu what he would buy for EUR 19 a month, he couldn't answer that question and said that if the amount was three times higher, he wouldn't even know what he would get for that money. Of course, this amount is very small, and if children have survived this period of depression and felt a family poverty, then I understand that they will fear the creation of a family in the future. So this issue also concerns children. Children will be worried when they are sure that they can be raised and that there will be no fear of another downfall if you have to cope with 60 euros a month. That means two euros a day, and that means maybe a whole year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U300	Thank you very much. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U301	Honourable waitress! I have not always been in the Chamber, but I have followed this thorough and comprehensive debate through the monitor. I understand from one of your answers that you in the Commission discussed a little about the source of this draft. You mentioned that one of the sources of coverage could be the taxation of higher income recipients at a higher rate. I'd like to know more about this plan how it works. Maybe you even have a bill for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U302	Honourable questioner, we really discussed the source of the cover. It was Jüri Jaanson of your party I hope I may name names who asked where we were taking the money. He didn't ask what the source was. On this point, Yana Toom said that we cannot discuss this issue in the Commission yet. There isn't even a state budget, so I can't tell you where to take the money. Maybe we have enough money in the budget to do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U303	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U304	I understand that, in general, our tax system and economic growth are the sources of coverage and should be everywhere. Was it also discussed in the Commission that the EUR 28 that should apply to each child is too small and could be higher? Were there constructive proposals on what this amount should be and what would be the source of cover?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U305	Of course, we discussed whether this amount was too small and in the way of time. Indeed, 28 euros 77 cents is not a large sum, but still helps. It would also show that the state supports families with children and that this is, in any case, one measure. The initiator of the bill explained why they did not come up with a larger amount, just as there is little hope that this bill will become a law here in the Riigikogu. Let's start with a smaller amount, let's start with what it once was when it was taken away at EUR 28 77 cents. And we pay it to children from the first grade to the end of primary school, not quite until the end of upper secondary school, just as there was before the cutbacks, there is hope that coalition ambassadors will support it. After all, it has been confirmed once in this very hall that if things get better, these subsidies could be restored. We also talked about the possibility of at least €57 of the grant, but the initiator of the draft said that in a few years' time we could really, for the first time, accept less.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U306	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U307	Honourable waitress! You are really giving comprehensive answers to the questions, but unfortunately I did not get an answer to my question. That's why I'm gonna ask you twice. You mentioned that one significant source of coverage for this draft could be higher taxation of beneficiaries of income at a higher rate. Is it possible for me to get more detailed information about this cover, this plan? Do you have a bill for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U308	Thank you, very good question! Too bad you weren't in the hall. I also said that if we do not lower the tax percentage from 21 to 20, there will be enough money left to make draft 435 law and our children will be further supported by the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U309	Thank you very much. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U310	Good waitress! Although a good colleague, Aivar Sõerd, has closely followed the discussion through the monitor for all these hours, one thing he has missed, which is also understandable, because the crossfire of questions has been intense. Would you be so good as to explain to my colleague, Aivar Sõerd, what role you are currently in the Riigikogu Board, in the role of initiator of the bill or representative of the commission? Maybe you can explain the difference between these two things and what you're doing on the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U311	Thank you, very good question! I'd be happy to explain. I am a member of the Social Affairs Committee and the Social Affairs Committee has appointed me co-rapporteur of the draft, which means that I do not deal with tax laws in the Commission. Unfortunately, not all the questions can be answered, and I understand that the manager has not interrupted Aivar Sõerd because he is a coalition ambassador.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U312	This is what we actually discussed in the Commission, but I would like to remind you once again that the amount comes from the time when national budget cuts were made. The amount of support was just like that before the cuts were made. The faction of the Centre Party came up with this EUR 28 and 77 cents of school support precisely because it hoped that if this amount was acceptable before the cuts, and if the country's economy has now recovered and the state budget has grown, then that EUR 4 million would be able to be found there in any case. In the future, you can go ahead and increase that amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U313	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Pikhof. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? Please, as representative of the Group of the Centre Party, Mr Mailis Reps. Now, please, exactly eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U314	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Since the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, i.e. the first reading of the 435 SE, started yesterday, let me briefly recall within eight minutes what the purpose and content of this very important draft we have initiated is. The purpose of the National Family Benefits Act, as the Commission recalled today, is to ensure that the cost of caring, raising and learning for families with children is partially reimbursed. The content of the draft law amending the Law on National Family Benefits is the partial reimbursement of learning expenses. All children have the right to equal treatment. Children who grow in families whose income is below the statistical average should also be entitled to equal treatment. The school allowance provided for by the State Family Benefits Act 2001 was entitled until 2008 to receive each child starting the academic year. The school allowance was stopped in 2008 when the Victim Assistance Act, the Pharmaceutical Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act and several other laws were amended in one package. It was a package of cuts during the crisis. This bill was presented to us by the then Minister for Social Affairs, Maret Maripuu, who explained that the abolition of school support was due to the state budget crisis. The cessation of the payment of the state school allowance either pushed support for families in need of assistance to local authorities only or they had to turn to the non-profit sector in order to cope. The price increase that has already been mentioned here today also affects all families, but many families with children are particularly affected by it. Food and, of course, everyday utilities have become expensive. In the study 'Estonian birth factors 2008', the factors highlighted before many social scientists were confirmed. One of the factors contributing to the birth rate is certainly the tangible support of the state. But it is also the knowledge that if you lose your job or have to raise children alone or if children have to be raised, for example, by grandparents, then with the support of the state, children still have a full childhood and a good education guarantee. As a result, it is certainly very important to pay school allowance at the beginning of the academic year, even though it initially applied to the 2001-2008 period. 28 euros and 77 cents, converted from the kroons. The purpose of the school allowance is to provide support to parents to cover direct school-related costs. The purpose of the draft is, as I pointed out yesterday, and I also recalled today, to restore public school support. The public school allowance is intended to cover part of the costs related to the beginning of the school year; in addition to the office supplies, sports equipment, school clothes, footwear, etc. must be obtained. According to Statistics Estonia, 17% of all children under the age of 18 and almost 9.5% of all children under the age of 18 lived in relative poverty in Estonia in 2011. In total, nearly 60,000 children live in poverty in Estonia, and restoring school support is all the more important, the sadder the picture these figures are. There are several points in the draft which regulate different aspects of the award of school support. Paragraph 1 (1) contains a separate aspect of one-off family allowances, point 2 explains how and under what circumstances the school allowance is included in the family allowances. All children who went to school during the same academic year who fulfil the conditions laid down in subsections 5 (1) or 5 (2) of this Act shall be entitled to school allowance. The same point states that the school allowance is paid at three times the amount of child benefit, i.e. now EUR 28 and 77 cents. Point 3 states that the amount of school allowance is calculated on the basis of the child benefit rate in force during the month preceding the beginning of the school year. The State Family Benefits Act provides that the child benefit rate is to be set by the state budget for each financial year. Point 4 of the draft law sets a deadline for the granting of family allowances. Paragraph 21 of the Family Benefits Act is supplemented by paragraph 8 where the draft stipulates that the school allowance is granted to a child aged 16 years and older if the young person who applied for the allowance is also studying within six months after the beginning of the academic year. We also specify that, according to the draft, the school allowance is paid to a child aged 7 years by 1 October of the current year until he or she reaches the age of 16. Due to the fact that the school allowance is intended to cover part of the costs of starting the school year, the allowance is paid in August together with other family allowances. If the child starts studying before the age of 7 or studies after the age of 16, the school allowance shall be paid after receiving the data from the Estonian Education Information System or upon submission of the educational institution's notification or student ticket. If a child does not start studying when he or she is 7 years old, his or her parent must notify the pension institution in writing. According to our draft law, the law on the restoration of school support will be in force on 1 January 2014, which will provide an opportunity to take this into account when drawing up a new state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U315	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask my colleague, Mr Pikhof, to speak as a representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U316	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I want to talk a little bit about the background to the draft discussed today. The moment will soon come when we will vote. I wonder if we could try and hit it together, which costs one child in September. This question is purely rhetorical and is not sent by multiple unknown calculations. The basic data are too different for that purpose. After all, it depends on whether a school child is big or small, a country or a city child, and what is important is whether he is the only asset of his father-mother, as says an old vamp, or whether his parents, apart from him, have more important property. Nearly a fifth of our families will live from party to mouth in 2013. Many children and single - parent families remain at the greatest risk of poverty. This knowledge is not derived from coffee grounds, but is based on research, as is the knowledge that the richest tenth of households can spend more than a few hundred times more money than the poorest part of the child's extracurricular activities. Some children go to sports and pleasure clubs, cinemas, theatres, and tours, develop their body, spirit, and horizons, while others gather on the corner to be with their peers. After all, school education itself, i.e. scrubing the bench, is free of charge, can be claimed. But is it? Let's take the most basic: workbooks must be bought out by parents in most schools. But they're on clenchpaper and expensive. For example, the cost of seventh grade workbooks has increased by more than a quarter in a few years. Some schools collect money from their parents to take over the walls that hatch in the classroom, and so-called "class money" is like an amen in church, because if the reproduction paper is strictly limited, there are plenty of tools to look at rather than touch the finger. This line could go on for a long time, and if you add up the monthly compulsory costs of free education, we get a pretty big sum. And what else to talk about September? For nothing, this money and I can be said sometimes in 5% of families, except that children grow up in other families too. It is from this attitude that a disheartening vicious circle may develop. Kids don't hide their attitude behind a grown-up smile. If you still don't have the school supplies you need, if you don't have the right things on your back, or if you don't have enough money in your pocket, you're not one of the others. A chronically excluded person doesn't want to go to school soon enough. After all, our most painful educational problems are the mass dropout from school. One of us wouldn't know how many children have dropped out of middle school over the last few years. Without education, however, it is difficult to get a job and pay, as well as to train your children. Thus, treasure and educational stratification blow winds into each other's wings. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U317	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U318	It's not too hard for us to break this vicious circle, all the more so because we don't have enough kids. There is simply a need to distinguish between important and less important things. The Social Democrats support the Centre Party Group's draft, which wants to guarantee all students who go to first grade or are studying in primary school, school allowance before 1 September 2014 and the amount of this allowance, as we have already heard in this Chamber today, is 28 euros and 77 cents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U319	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask my colleague, Mr Margus Tsahkna, as a representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U320	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I am here as a representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, but also as Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. I just want to tell you that I am embarrassed and I also want to apologise for what happened here because of the rapporteur from the Commission. It is, in my opinion, extremely embarrassing that such an important issue, if it is children's livelihood, children's education and, more specifically, the pack subsidy, is applied purely to the picking of a political point and to the structure cart. Indeed, I am very sorry that this is not recommended in the 'political battle', which is fought on the basis of different ideas and on the basis of different ideas, but is done simply to get attention by spending very valuable time here, which should actually be devoted to discussions on substantive issues. Just reading the content of the phone book and all other non-relevant material is not what was expected of the representative of the Social Affairs Committee. I promise that the representative of the Social Affairs Committee will never do that again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U321	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. As the lead committee has proposed to reject draft 435 at first reading, we need to vote on it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 435 at first reading. Please vote! 53 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 39 against, with no abstentions. The proposal found support, bill 435 dropped out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U322	Ladies and gentlemen, we have arrived on our agenda today. The first draft law that we now need to look at is the draft law 321 on amendments to competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. We have reached this third reading. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that most of you are in the Chamber, we can have a final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law 321 on the amendment of the competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, on the amendment of other laws. Please vote! 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there are no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U323	Let's start reading 375 third reading of the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open negotiations and ask for a speech chair as a representative of the political group of the Marika Tuus-Laul Centre Party. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U324	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As I said at second reading of this draft, we do not understand why legislative changes concerning misdemeanour proceedings are being made in a hurry at the moment, because there is a very substantial draft being drafted at the Ministry of Justice, which is directly concerned with misdemeanour proceedings. The Supreme Court has also said so. In addition, we are currently working on a comprehensive law enforcement law, which also includes misdemeanour proceedings, an area that we want to amend today's regulation. The Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, explained that the purpose of the draft is to make the misdemeanour procedure more high-quality and simpler, but in fact it is the opposite. We believe that the problem is, above all, the shortage of police officers, the chronic lack of police money. This money could be gained, for example, from traffic offenders, as well as from the speeding up of the fine procedures and more fines imposed by the Tax and Customs Board. We are not at all opposed to punishing the guilty, but the question has arisen as to which degree we can still simplify the punishment and where to draw the line so that the policeman does not abuse his power. The proposed legislative amendment will allow the already small number of police officers to be further reduced. That's something the coalition doesn't want to agree with. At the same time, it has to be said that it was in this Chamber that the Commission's rapporteur Kalle Laanet stated that the amendment would give the police organisation tens of thousands of hours of work available. It is clear that two officials are now needed to fix an offence, a traffic offence, or some other wrongdoing. For neutrality to be guaranteed, as well as police safety, two people are needed. When these changes come into effect, only one policeman will do the job. It is therefore possible to reduce the number of patrol police officers, and the same officer in court can be both a source of evidence and a witness and a sanctioner. This could significantly impede objective justice and impair the quality of out-of-court proceedings. The amendment gives too much discretion to one official, and we fear that a personal level can play a role here. In addition, if the same person is both a judge and a witness and has to go to court, then the basic work of patrol officers, which is to ensure order in public spaces, will be seriously affected. It takes a lot of time to go to court. I recall that at the beginning of this month, Märt Rask visited the Riigikogu Hall, who stated that the number of appeals to court in cases of misdemeanour has increased. In 2012, a total of 6917 cases of misdemeanour had to be discussed by county courts, which was 35% more than in 2011. We know the court proceedings are slowing down. If we start sending a few police officers to the courts in addition to their usual work, there will be even fewer on the streets. As a result, the workload of other police officers will naturally increase. The Supreme Court also disagrees with this amendment, considering that "the developer may be a collector of evidence and their evaluator, but not a source of evidence for his future activities'. The other party to the amendment concerns the use of a photo or video recording as an independent proof. According to the authors of the draft act, the purpose of the amendment is to replace the minutes of the procedural file with a photo or video recording in order to avoid the need to draw up an additional document unless explicitly required by the infringer. At the same time, the Supreme Court stresses that the exercise of state supervision should not become a continuous recording of the activities of individuals, i.e. quasi-trace activities. In addition, the rule of law states that if a person does not agree with the decision of an out-of-court proceeding, he or she has the opportunity to apply to the courts. However, the courts shall require a record of procedural measures stating how the record relates to the offence and what other objective events are not reflected in the record. The protocol is therefore essential to get a full overview of the event and draw conclusions that either complicate or simplify the procedure. The current law has not ensured uniform interpretations. Practising lawyers have said that the change will make the situation even more confusing, which in turn may further increase the number of court cases in cases of misdemeanour. So we cannot agree in any way with Mr Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, who said that one of the aims of this draft is to reduce litigation. It's definitely not gonna be like this. In summary, the Centre Party Group disagrees with these amendments. They are intended to give officials a chance to be very arbitrary, accusing the person and also imposing a fine on him. On the other hand, we are not willing to increase the workload of police officers who are already underpaid. We will vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U325	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask my colleague, Mr Anvelt, to speak as a representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U326	Ladies and gentlemen, I honestly say that when I prepared this little speech for negotiations, my aim was to draw attention to some of the factors that have attracted our citizens' interest since the publication of this bill. At the moment, my goal has changed a little, I want to analyse the points that my good colleague Marika Tuus-Laul has just talked about from a slightly different perspective. First of all, what have we seen on the streets in the last few weeks and months? The sudden spring and fast summer have again led to an increase in the number of victims and accidents. There is certainly one reason, as the previous speaker said, that we have few police officers. Today's draft law is an opportunity to send a lot more policemen to respond to the street. How does it work? Very simply! At the moment, when a person is invited to speak in a police car and to draft a protocol, I myself have not experienced it, I say it honestly, but I know it through many acquaintances and also police officers, then a long process, often up to 45 minutes, follows. It's annoying for a citizen who actually understands what his violation was about, because he sees it on the radar video footage, for example, and, secondly, it takes a lot of law enforcement time. The consequence is that two police officers sit in a car for 45 minutes, talk to a citizen and file a protocol, while dozens, if not hundreds of cars, and certainly some of them, are speeding up and putting themselves and their fellow citizens at risk. The purpose of this law is to speed up this process so that it can be done in 15 minutes, and only if the citizen insists, to make a protocol. The citizen doesn't even want to ask for it. All of us are human beings and, as Latin says, error is humane. We want to get back to our daily activities as soon as possible after the mistake, and the policeman wants to continue patrolling. Think about it! If the police can get back on patrol half an hour earlier, maybe some speedster, drunk or reckless driver will be detained and some lives will be saved. I am also talking about the second half of the bill regarding the use of a police officer as a witness. The draft is very clear about the representative of the ADRer as a witness. Even now, when the case goes to court, there is usually a police authority in court. A person is usually appointed to do so in a misdemeanor procedure. When the dispute is upstairs, a police officer is called to witness. I hope that the same legislative amendment and the requirements that will be placed on recordings will often exclude this need from the future. Why is a police officer called out? Often to fix the place, the person who violated the right, and the speed of the offence. The requirements arising from this bill make it a very clear obligation to show on the record where something happened, how it happened, and what the first human testimony was. So the need to summon a witness may be exceptional, but even if it does, I see nothing wrong with it when police officers are sometimes called to testify in court. I have one question left of the whole bill, but life will show you how it is. The extrajudicial judge, or police officer, who makes a protocol of wrongdoing on the ground, is now liable to the law if he knowingly makes the wrong decision in the misdemeanour procedure, quite harshly. The Penal Code provides for a maximum term of imprisonment of three years. Now, if he goes to trial as a witness and lies there, then he's actually still being punished for false sayings. How does it work together now? But these are the legal gourmets' questions, and time will tell. If an official has misbehaved, he must be liable on both points: as a citizen as a witness and as an official as a decision maker. The fact that the film and other information recordings can be used as evidence is not a new thing in the Estonian legal space. It was already used by us when the Estonian police received their first video camera and filmed their first scene observations and other activities. Only now, 20 years later, will we bring this concept into the practice of misdemeanour, or bring our misdemeanour procedure to a much more modern level. I do not think that the citizens who we all are and who are always wrong from time to time will have any questions at all if the problems of the offence can be resolved very quickly on the ground. In fact, I also want to pass on to the Committee on Legal Affairs the thanks of some of my former colleagues, with whom I have discussed this draft. We also had a serious debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The draft law was received by the Commission at the beginning of the year. We listened to the various parties and made quite a lot of changes and improvements to the draft, and now it is relatively fine on our desk. I call on everyone, in particular, to reduce the number of victims and to allow the police to control the offenders more on the streets, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U327	Please, Mr Gräzin, representative of the Reform Party Group. Would you like to perform?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U328	No, about Heljo Pikhof, I said everything I had to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U329	Sorry, we're not talking about Heljo Pikhof right now! Please watch what's going on in the hall! [[Laughter.]] No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. We can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption of this law requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, please let us check the presence! 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the final vote the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic 375. Please vote! 67 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 16 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U330	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Construction Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for the floor as a representative of the Group of the Centre Party of the Olga Sõitnik.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U331	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Construction Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic. a on 6 May. Amendment of the Construction Act...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U332	Please, set up, Olga, the microphone a little closer to you! I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U333	The amendment to the Construction Act is due to the fact that Regulation No 305/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products and repealing Council Directive 89/106/EEC is fully applicable from 1 July 2013. Currently, the Construction Act contains a number of provisions which were necessary for the transposition into Estonian law of the Construction Products Directive 89/106/EEC, but which, now, would be contrary to this if the Direct Application of the Construction Products Regulation were to apply. I will address some of the points in the draft, which I believe are the most important and on which questions have also been put in this Chamber during the procedure. First, § 3 of the Act is supplemented by paragraphs 74 and 75. From 1 June, Regulation No 305/2011, which applies directly, lays down requirements for construction products, shall apply and, in that context, the provisions relating to construction products in paragraphs 5 to 8 shall be deleted. For reasons of legal clarity, paragraph 74 introduces a reference to the Regulation and the Product Conformity Act. In this case, the addressee of the standard can also understand where the requirements for construction products come from. Paragraph 75 provides that permanent installation of non-industrially untreated natural construction material, a traditional national construction product or a recycled construction product in a building must ensure that the building complies with the requirements of § 3 (2) (7). In essence, this is an addition to the current § 6 (2) by providing for the use of natural and traditional building materials in buildings. Industrially untreated natural building material or traditionally manufactured national construction material or product are for example mass log products, strawballs, clay, cane, natural stones, forgings and other alternative materials and products not manufactured industrially as large lots. It is necessary to include this provision in the Construction Act, since the construction materials and articles mentioned above do not fall within the scope of the Construction Products Regulation, i.e. that no harmonised technical specifications have been drawn up for them and that there is no obligation to use the CE marking for such products and materials. It also supports the principles of the Construction Products Regulation on sustainable and environmentally friendly construction. In addition, § 9 is introduced in a new wording. This section governs the granting of the right to act as TAB. The technical assessment body shall be the conformity assessment body which, at the request of the manufacturer, performs a European technical assessment of the product on the basis of the European Assessment Document, on the basis of which the manufacturer can draw up a declaration of performance for the product and affix the CE marking. In the current wording, paragraphs 1 and 2 are deleted because, with effect from 1 July 2013, Council Directive 89/106/EEC is repealed and the Construction Products Regulation is fully applicable. Existing subsections 9 (3) and 9 (4) become paragraphs 1 and 2. In paragraph 1, reference is made to the Construction Products Regulation and in both paragraphs the term'recognition authority' under the Construction Products Directive is replaced by 'technical assessment body'. There has been a change in the procedure for granting the right to act as TAB. According to the procedure previously in force, the right to act as an institution of recognition was granted by the Government of the Republic to one person on a proposal from the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications on the basis of an administrative agreement. According to the new wording of the provision, the right to act as TAB is granted by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. The draft states that, in accordance with § 9 (3), upon receipt of the application, the Minister shall set up a committee to assess whether the applicant fulfils the requirements set out in the table in Annex 2 to the Construction Products Regulation. The number of TAB actors is no longer limited. So far, there could have been only one and there was only one TUT. There are currently no technical assessment bodies or recognition bodies in Estonia. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U334	Three extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U335	These were some of the most important points. The first reading of this draft law took place in this Chamber on 22 May and the draft was not explained by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts, but by the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder. At this meeting, it was agreed that the deadline for tabling amendments would be 29 May. No amendments were received from political groups or delegates at that time. On 30 May a working group of the Economic Commission met to prepare the draft for the Commission's meeting. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading at its meeting on 3 June, which was also attended by a representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Commission decided to make two amendments, one from the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and the other from the Group's proposals. Amendment 1 was such that § 1 of the draft could be supplemented by one point amending the norm comment of the Construction Act. Since, pursuant to Articles 65 and 68 of Regulation No 305/211 of the European Parliament and of the Council, it is recognised as from s. a 1 July repealing Council Directive 89/106/EEC, the reference to that Directive shall be deleted from the technical note of the Construction Act. Directive 2002/91/EC is already invalid and the technical notes need to be updated in this respect. Directive 2002/91/EC replaces Directive 2010/31/EU. This amendment was tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Amendment 2 was such that the Commission's proposal is to amend the date of entry into force of the law by deleting the entry into force provision. As the deadline for the entry into force of the Act in § 2 of the draft law s. a 1 July is not real in view of the late submission of the draft, it is excluded from the draft. Although Regulation No 305/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which directly introduced the amendment to the Construction Act, enters into force in full s. a On 1 July, the entry into force of the law after that date shall not give rise to any conflict to an extent which could cause serious confusion to the addressee of the rule or lead to infringement proceedings. With the exception of § 2 of the Bill, the Act enters into force in general terms. The Committee on Economic Affairs supported both of these amendments and decided to submit the draft for second reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu by 12 June and to propose that the second reading be terminated. It was further decided that, once the second reading of the draft was completed, the third reading of the draft could be carried out on 19 June. Since the second reading of the draft was completed on 12 June, I have today, ladies and gentlemen, a proposal to approve and vote in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U336	Thank you very much, Mr Olga Soldier, that was a very nice presentation! This could be the content of the Commission's report. It all became very clear, thank you! No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Construction Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 429. Please vote! 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one was against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U337	We will begin the third reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague Kalvi to speak as a representative of the Group of the Hard Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U338	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I have a most grateful opportunity to use your precious time for a few minutes. I hope to fit in five minutes, if it doesn't happen to fit, I'll ask for a few more minutes. Good friends! The Social Democrats are also satisfied with this bill, which we are about to approve here at third reading. I have not come here to say that this is not a good bill, and we will not vote for it. This is a sensible draft and I congratulate the Ministry, which presented a very well prepared draft to the Commission. Not the way another ministry has done with the other draft laws on the agenda today. I am touching two important points here. As we know, the draft law aims to increase the transparency and integrity of the governance of the Leader approach action groups, as well as to encourage the members of these groups to participate more actively in decision-making processes at Bureau meetings. As we know, there are 1718 members involved in Leader activities in different regions in Estonia. This shows that this activity has become very important in our rural areas. Local authorities, the non-profit sector and entrepreneurs are involved in Leader and therefore it is very important to seek consensus, to negotiate things. It is precisely for this reason that it is important that the Bureau and the General Assembly meetings should not vote on the so-called mandates on paper, i.e. the mandates, but that people actually be present. With regard to Leader at all and the Leader principle, the European Commission has provided a guideline that, during the next financial period of the European Union, in addition to the rural development programme measure, this approach could be applied more closely in other programmes relating to European Union funds. This is an appeal to all of us who can influence the decision-makers of both the Social Fund and the Regional Development Fund more in line with the Leader principle. I would also like to point out that, at the moment when the rural development plan is under discussion, one fact is a little worrying. In the case of the rural development plan, the amount of Leader activities and the Leader programme will increase to EUR 93 million in the previous period, 85 million were used, but the village renewal and development measure will disappear completely, so the Leader measure will become an increasingly important priority. People involved in Leader activities in the counties deserve a great deal of recognition, much needed things are done. But sometimes a drop of tar has gotten into that honey pot. In my opinion, this draft, which I am sure the Social Democrats are voting for here today, is necessary, particularly in terms of inclusion and the maintenance of democracy in the groups of activities. Since today's draft rural committee bill is on the agenda for the last time in the spring session, I would like to make a statement of thanks as chairman of the committee. I'm only gonna take one minute not to waste your time. I would like to thank personally our Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rait Marust. This is because, at the beginning of this year, he was the person who started the so-called 'decision series', so now the Committee on Rural Affairs is the lead committee for all the drafts concerning local authorities and regional development. Thank you so much, Rait, for this! Many thanks also to the board for directing these laws to us!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U339	Thank you very much, Mr Kalvi Tough. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the final vote the draft law 432 amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 71 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U340	The third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Feedingstuffs initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? Please, Mr Kalev Eagle, as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U341	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U342	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U343	Honor the President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Although the drafting of a draft law amending the Law on Feedingstuffs is due to the need to ensure the effective implementation of the obligations under European Union law, it is not purely technical. The final objective of the amendments to the feed law is to ensure a high level of traceability and consumer protection throughout the feed and food chain, to improve feed hygiene and to reduce the risk of contaminated products entering the food chain. Perhaps high-quality feed must provide high-quality food. Of course, it must be observed that the law of the Estonian state does not contain regulation contrary to European Union law, nor does it duplicate the provisions of the regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council. Today, however, the European Parliament and the Council have, in a sense, forced us to do so. Those institutions have confirmed the second programme of action on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs), the objective of which is to continue reviewing TSE-related measures for the years 2010 to 2015, while ensuring a high level of food safety. However, amendments to the TSE-related rules are now and will continue to be made gradually, on the basis of reliable scientific data. This means that national parliaments will also be able to harmonise their legislation in this area now and also in the future gradually at a dictated pace of the European Parliament and the Council. It is good that the first strategic objectives of the TSE action programme are a review of some of the measures of the current complete ban on feed, provided that certain conditions are met. For example, processed animal protein currently banned in feed is mainly used for the production of fuel used in fertiliser, compost and cement plants, while the animal body also needs protein for normal function and production as a single nutrient. The European Food Safety Authority has already issued an opinion in 2007 showing that no TSE has been detected in non-ruminant farmed animals under natural conditions and that the risk of transmission of bovine spongiform encephalopathy from non-ruminants to non-ruminants is low. On this basis, the prohibition on processed animal protein from non-ruminants for feed for non-ruminants has been relaxed at European Union level and the resulting protein feed for aquaculture animals is subsequently authorised. Since large ships are turning slowly, this 2007 finding has not been able to amend the feed law until 2013. We ourselves comfort ourselves that we are harmonising our laws with European Union legislation. It can only be assumed that there has been economic damage to our common agriculture and that of the European Union, when we have been heating cement plant furnaces with animal protein for years. And it hasn't been the right heating either, rather the utilisation of animal protein. The European Parliament resolution of 8 March 2011 on a protein shortage and possible solutions to this long-term problem in the European Union proposes to the European Commission to allow the use of processed animal protein from slaughterhouse waste for the production of feed for monogastric animals, such as pigs and poultry, provided that the ingredients originate from meat authorised for human consumption and that the intra-species recycling and the prohibition of forced cannibalism are fully implemented and controlled. Currently, no validated diagnostic method is available to detect the presence of raw materials from pigs and poultry in feed. It is therefore not yet possible to verify the correct implementation of the intra-species recycling ban if the use of processed animal protein derived from pigs in feed for poultry and processed animal protein derived from poultry in feed for pigs is re-authorised. There are no problems with the implementation of the intra-species recycling ban in the production of aquaculture products, as the current guidance requirements for the use of fishmeal in feed for aquaculture animals have already proved effective. Therefore, feed of protein derived from non-ruminants is also authorised for aquaculture animals under certain conditions from 1 June 2013. Although this is a relatively simple draft, the government submitted it to the Riigikogu in a flawed manner. Fortunately, the good advisers of the Committee on Rural Affairs have noted that an error in the definition of animal protein in Section 6 (7) of the feed law has occurred in the draft text at point 1 of the draft. According to the original text of the draft act, animal protein is a product referred to in Annex IV, Chapter I (b) (1) (5) and Chapter II (b) (1) (3) to Regulation No 999/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The products referred to in Annex IV, Chapter II (b) (1) to Regulation No 999/2001 are the same as those referred to in Annex IV, Chapter I (b) (1) (5), i.e. processed animal proteins, collagen and gelatine derived from non-ruminants, blood products, hydrolysed protein of animal origin, dicalcium phosphate of animal origin and tricalcium phosphate. Animal proteins such as milk, milk-based products, dairy products, colostrum, colostrum, egg products, egg products, collagen and gelatine derived from non-ruminants are mentioned in Chapter II (a) (1) (3) of the same Annex. It is therefore correct to refer to Chapter II (a) (1) and (3) instead of the second reference in the definition of animal protein. Now that such a fundamental error has been corrected, the Group of the Social Democratic Party agrees to support draft 431 at third reading and we will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U344	Thank you very much, Mr Kalev Eagle. I would now like to ask Mr Leng, who is the representative of the Centre Party Group, to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U345	Thank you. I'm asking for eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U346	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U347	The subject is complex and I would like the hall to understand it, so I will start by quoting the text. Listen carefully, Mr. Lawyer. The following amendments are made to the Feed Act and, in essence, this means that animal protein and feed containing it are handled and used under Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down certain conditions and note! rules for the prevention, control and eradication of spongiform encephalopathies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U348	No!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U349	No and no again!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U350	I'm sorry! Mr Gräzin, calm down, please, calm down!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U351	I understand the excitement of our colleagues, because, indeed, at first glance, the content of this law is difficult to understand, but we are still trying to get into the details, so we understand that, as the previous speaker said, good animal feed also guarantees us quality food. And we should all be very happy about that. But I'm going to talk a little bit more about this law. Point 2 amends the wording of the first sentence of Paragraph 6 (8). According to the first sentence of § 6 (8) of the current Act, in the future, the production and feeding of feed containing fish meal, dicalcium phosphate, tricalcium phosphate, bloody phosphate, not blood products, but blood products or blood meal may be carried out only with the permission of the Food and Veterinary Office. Under no circumstances should blood products be given to animals without the authorisation of the veterinary authorities! Farmers should be aware of this in terms of the production and feeding of animal protein and feed containing such protein to animals are strictly regulated by EU legislation. This is a special authorisation allowing supervisors to improve control of the production and feeding of feed that could pose a risk to human and animal health. I think the hall understands that. The authorisation shall be granted only to persons on land whose holding meets the requirements laid down in Annex IV to Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Since from 1 June 2013 we are clear on who is a non-ruminant under certain conditions? It is also necessary to amend the current provision of the law to allow the production of processed animal protein and feed containing it at a high level. Compared to the law currently in force, there is a provision in the new wording, one part of the text has been replaced, and it is 'fish meal, dicalcium phosphate, tricalcium phosphate or blood products'. The need to change the terms contained in the warehouse is due to changes in European Union legislation. The term 'treated animal protein' is used in the new wording of the provision. Madam ex-minister, 'treated animal protein' is a new term that is now being used, the concept of processed animal protein is wider than we thought so far, including fish and blood meal. The concept of processed animal protein is defined in point 5 of Annex I to Commission Regulation (EU) No 142/2011. I repeat: Annex I, point 5. It has been decided at European Union level that, in order to improve the hygiene of feed and to reduce the risk of contamination of contaminated products entering the food chain, establishments where untreated vegetable oil is processed, produce products derived from vegetable oil and mix fats, are to be recognised in accordance with the hygiene Regulation (EC) No 183/2005, where those products are intended for use as feed and not for human consumption. Therefore, Commission Regulation (EU) 225/2012 imposes an obligation to recognise establishments producing the abovementioned feed materials. The amendment to the draft is of a fine-tuning nature, eliminating the incompatibility with European Union law if it has been so far. This does not entail any additional obligations for feed business operators, since the obligation to recognise fat is already in force as of 16 September 2012 in accordance with point 2 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 225/2012. I no longer want to exhaust the hall by quoting this law, but I want to say that this is an extremely necessary law in the Republic of Estonia as well. However, I will read to you a quote from a good colleague, Mr Black, which puts the whole idea of this text into a very simple Estonian language. This is a quote from Theodor Pool: 'The right feed for animals has a large reserve and the scientific edible is the basis for the wealth of the Estonian peasant. " Let us choose the proper bait for our animals. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U352	Let's hear it later, please! There's no more calls. I'm going to finish the negotiations, we're going to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote draft law amending the Law on Feedingstuffs initiated by the Government of the Republic 431. Please vote! 77 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and no one is against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U353	The next item is the third reading of the draft Museum Act 374 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the groups want to open negotiations? I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Aadu, as a representative of the Black Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U354	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Museums play a greater role in our society than we usually imagine. First of all, museums are the keepers of the historical memory of our people, the collectors of this memory material, the advertisers. Through this museums are also the designers of the culture and identity of our people. Another important point we could bear in mind is that museums serve the purpose of maintaining the continuity of generations. In addition, museums have taken on a major role in teaching. Today, more and more are said that the museum is an organic continuation of the school. The law is that the museum is also an educational institution. For example, the "Museum and Archive as a Learning Environment" project is known. The regulations that have so far shaped the work of museums have become hopelessly obsolete and are in the way of time. The new law was badly needed. This draft, which was now submitted for adoption, had at the beginning a number of contentions, perhaps also shortcomings. That original bill was the face of the ministry rather than the face of the museum. The draft law was designed to make it easier to boss and rule museums, not based on the purpose that the people would be interested in going there and receiving more instruction. At the same time, however, there was a sympathetic way of dealing with the draft. There was a constructive debate during the process, and new solutions were sought. For this, the Commission as a whole, and especially the leading judge Liisa-Ly Pakosta, should be congratulated, who recommended and managed to do a great deal of work. He organized a series of meetings with interest groups and specialists, with cultural people at all. And the surprise-surprisingly, when the draft museum law was finally completed, the opposition's proposals had also been harmonically incorporated into it, which happens relatively rarely in this house. It's a good bill. Maybe it sounds paradoxical, but it's also good that he's not 'too good'. If we monitor the development of the'memory institutions' in recent decades, we will see that this development has been enormously rapid. While it has been said earlier that, for example, library, archival, museology and heritage conservation are all very special and specific disciplines, the common part of which is about 20% and the special part of everyone 80%, the development of information technology has now led to the conclusion that the common part of memory sciences already accounts for about 80% and that the special part is within 20%. Perhaps there might have been the idea that now, in the museum law, we could already consider heritology, which is the current adaptation of the word heritology, not just museums. That's where the excitement begins. Today, universities are also going from teaching separate museology, archival, library and heritage conservation to teaching herthology as a discipline involving all of them. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U355	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U356	Against this background, it would be expected that the museum law should also summarise all these areas. The healthy logic, however, says that the compromises made in drafting the draft were reasonable. Let the universities go first. Let them train specialists ready for tomorrow, and once these specialists are trained, it will be possible to break any professional barriers more successfully and go from one, another, third or fourth narrowly defined field of memory to a larger and more coherent direction. In summary, I would like to say that Bill 374 is good because it meets the current requirements of Estonia. Secondly, it is good that there are marked directions in the course of the proceedings, which must be taken forward. It's not like the law's finished and life stops. On the contrary, the Commission's work has shown that it is possible to move forward constructively in this area. All in all, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, I thank those who have done so for their consensus. This bill deserves to be voted in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U357	Thank you very much, Mr Black. Please, as representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Mrs Mart Meri.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U358	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite good for me, after Mr Black, to continue speaking, because indeed, it has been a good example to deal with the draft law on museums. Its proceedings started right before the text was handed over to Parliament. The meeting of the Committee on Culture was held at the Museum of Estonian History in Maarjamäe, where the Minister of Culture introduced the main directions of the draft, thus testing the circulation of his ideas in the eyes of the members of the Committee on Culture. A number of major museum leaders and members of the museum council also took part in this free and open discussion. Thus, a constructive foundation was created for the draft. This does not mean that the subsequent formal proceedings went in any way particularly smooth or formal. On the contrary, as a result of the discussions in the Commission, quite a lot of changes were made to the structure of the draft, the definition of the museum was introduced and other important concepts were clarified, the emphasis of the draft was changed, and a new topic was even added on the proposal of the museum council: the possibility of disposing of the museum collection in public auction when the museum was excluded from the museum collection. Very exciting topic! What, then, could be highlighted by the content of the museum law? Couple of marginal notes on that. It is certainly important that the Commission included a definition of a museum in the draft, which also gives the museum the dimension of an educational institution with all its implications. And that's quite a lot, up to a tax credit for those people who attend a paid training course at a museum. On this subject, we even had a small dispute with the Ministry, which considered the definition to be be belletristian rather than a legal definition that could be useful in everyday life. But make sure it's the only quote in my report. Paragraph 2 (1) of the Museums Act states: "The museum is a cultural and educational institution operating permanently in the service of society and its development, which does not pursue economic profits that are open to the public and whose task is to collect, preserve, explore and mediate the cultural and cultural heritage of a person and his or her living environment for educational, scientific and experience purposes. In carrying out its tasks, the museum will, inter alia, take into account the needs of children and people with disabilities. ' This was the definition that the Committee on Culture included in the draft. Whether belletristika or not, there is also one of the most general problems of Estonian lawmaking, the immense deepening of which may increasingly narrow the room for free thought and common sense in Estonia. I mean, the attitude of what's not written, it doesn't exist. Common sense understands that the museum has an educational function, but if we had not written it in black and white, we would, unfortunately, have limited the possibilities for museums to operate and probably reduced the number of participants in museum activities. Unfortunately, yes, the principle 'not written, does not exist' is still more pragmatic than common sense because of circumstances or perhaps lack of will. The Commission made a substantial derogation when defining the conditions for applying for operating grants from the State. In the original version of the bill, the condition for applying for the grant was the accession of any type of museum to the electronic database of museums in MuIS. Joining the database would currently be too much for many non-state museums, all the more so since MuIS itself, in itself a valuable online work and exhibition tool, is still in the active development phase. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U359	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U360	The Ministry had given MuIS too much of a decisive role, and several museum people saw it as a lever for the extinction of smaller museums. I'm not going to bring a parallel here with PGS processing. But in vain it is my hope, at least, that all the written words, words and paintings and museum objects will move to the web, so that no more exhibition halls, bookshops or public libraries, as well as bookshelves, are needed at home. You press the button, and it's all there. The Commission's amendment alleviated the condition of joining the database when applying for state support and, according to the current draft, it only covers state museums and museums that manage state-owned museum collections. The bill greatly increases the international reach of Estonian museums due to the fixing of the principles of securing exhibitions moving across national borders. This was a long-awaited breakthrough, which primarily concerns the transfer of Kumu and other valuable expositions from and into Estonia. So far, Kumu has had to give up the organisation of several exciting exhibitions precisely because the insurance system in question was lacking and sometimes, as a host institution, Kumul had to ask its foreign partners to cover the amount of insurance, which is not a very dignified request for one of the art museums in an independent country. To sum up, there will be a good memory of this bill being processed. There are exceptionally good museums in Estonia that deserve to be maintained and maintained and, above all, to visit. The Social Democrats hope that the new museum law will serve precisely these objectives and will vote in favour of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U361	Thank you very much, Mr Mart Meri. There's no more calls. I will conclude the negotiations and go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote on the final vote on the draft Museum Act 374 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 69 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U362	The second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, entitled "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali." Mr Aivar Riisalu, vice-chairman of the National Defence Committee, would you like to give a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U363	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft decision was completed on 6 June 2013. The deadline for tabling amendments was 12 June at 5.15 p.m. No proposal to amend the draft was received. The text of the first reading was already correct in linguistic and technical terms, so the text of the second reading is identical to the text of the first reading. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft mission for Mali before the second reading at its meeting on 13 June and 17 June. At the meeting on 17 June, it was decided by consensus to approve the explanatory memorandum and the text of the second reading of the draft and to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft decision be included on the agenda for the second reading of the session on 19 June. As a member of the European Union, it is important for Estonia to contribute to the implementation of the common security and defence policy of the European Union. This is also the case, in accordance with point 1 of the draft, for participation in the European Union Training Mission (EUTM Mali) with up to eight Defence Forces. Estonian Defence Forces are not involved in military operations, but are involved in training and advising the Malian Armed Forces. According to point 2 of the draft, up to two staff officers will be deployed on the United Nations peacekeeping mission MINUSMA. MINUSMA is both a traditional peacekeeping operation and the fight against terrorism. Officially, staff officers do not participate directly in military operations, but organise the activities of UN peacekeepers, including African military personnel and Mali police units. For example, Estonia's allies Finland and Norway have announced their participation in the UN mission. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace in crisis regions. On 13 June 2013, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U364	Thank you very much, Mr Riisalu. You have questions too. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U365	Dear waitress, I'm going to ask you a somewhat broader question than this mission in particular, and I'm going to ask you as a member of the Defence League. Is the experience gained from such foreign missions beneficial to the Defence League?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U366	Let's just say that the National Defence Committee is naturally guided by the various foreign policy needs and decisions of the Estonian state in the case of foreign missions. The Defence League is still part of the Defence Forces thanks to the members of the frame defence force who serve in the Defence League, but also thanks to volunteers. I know enough of the cases that entire units have been set up for foreign missions on the basis of the Defence League, such as the last missions in Kosovo during rotation. And a number of active defence allies have temporarily put an end to civilian life and joined the Defence Forces. The training of the Defence League has allowed them to go on pre-mission training in the Defence Forces very soon and from there to a foreign mission. My personal and, in fact, firm position by the entire National Defence Committee is that all kinds of foreign missions help to ensure stability in the world, and a wise person fights elsewhere when it is necessary. I've been saying it all along: we don't have to think about whether or not there's going to be a war, we have to think about when it's gonna start. And no means to achieve this goal of being well prepared for the start of war is bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U367	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U368	Honourable waitress! I'm gonna ask you this way. I understand that combat experience is very important for soldiers, but why should we risk the lives of soldiers trained for our precious money? Perhaps it would be wiser to send bombs or explosives and weapons, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U369	The National Defence Committee did not discuss the issue so widely with regard to this mission. But I'm sticking to my position. Peeter Võsa, your personal lifestyle is also such that sometimes you are in danger of running out on the streets of Tallinn. In general, I think that if you send military personnel on a mission where they're training, things aren't that bad. It is simply a matter of principle, and as a member of various international coalitions, Estonia must respect its principles. I went to draw attention to my colleague's personal charisma maybe a little over the border, but I really dare say that the streets of Tallinn or, say, the civil life of Tallinn is often not safer than the life of a military man on a mission. We've had 17 young people killed in traffic in the last two months, and we've lost nine militias on missions at all. It is, of course, very tragic, but I think these victims have not been in vain. However, 17 deaths in traffic in two months, ten of them in accidents caused by drunk drivers, I think, is the tragedy of the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U370	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U371	Dear waitress, I understand that, for the first time in history, our defence forces are taking action on African soil. Now, if I understand correctly, the mission we are participating in is in the service of the legitimate government of Mali or is at least working in cooperation with it on Mali's territory. Can you give us an overview of the state of affairs there? To what extent is Mali's legitimate government currently controlling its territory, and how well is the success of this mission guaranteed? Maybe one day we'll have to get out of there in bad shape with the others.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U372	The situation in Mali is under control. In Mali, a military coup took place some time ago, to go briefly to the beginning of the problem. Mali is in this sense an unusual country that has an area of 1.5 million square kilometres. The southern part, which is below the Saharan desert, is predominantly inhabited by black people, but Mali's desert is a Tuareg area and the Tuaregs are known to be of Arabic origin. Thus, in some ways, this country has been programmed into ethnic conflict. Tuaregs, with three groups, seek autonomy or total independence in one way or another. The situation has also begun to be exploited by the Islamic fundamentalists, and at one point there was a risk that the situation might get out of control because the government no longer had a substantive say in the Tuareg territory. At that, France intervened with military force and stabilized the situation, purely at its own risk. To date, active combat activities have ended and the international community has decided that a United Nations peacekeeping unit of 12 500 men based on African states will be located in Mali. France has already taken a large part of its units out of there and the situation is stabilised by means of peacekeeping, which is why we have a reasonable contribution to make. Mali's mission is like a two-layered one for us: it is a European Union training mission, to which we send up to eight members of the Defence Forces, at the moment of rotation they are double. They are specifically involved in the training of the Malian army. Two members of the Defence Forces under the UN mandate perform a wide range of tasks in the United Nations mission. In this sense, it is a unique condition, which is usually a NATO mission, a European Union mission or a UN mission, but at present, two acceptable forces throughout the world have taken control of the regulation of the situation. I believe that this will keep the situation stable and the crisis will not escalate. In the first step, people in Estonia were tried to explain to us that why Africa and all of this are not right for us. I don't think Mali will come from another Afghanistan, for the simple reason that they got it in time. Let's just say that we support the legitimate government as far as, in the case of Africa, we can talk about a legitimate government at all. To be honest, we support a government that has come to power with a coup, but it is in power. I think a better solution, as has now been achieved there, than the fact that there is going to be some sort of crisis, in which we would pretend that it does not concern us. One and a half million square kilometers is a very large area, and there are not many people living there, so it's possible to deliver anyone in this area, even the bad guys, if they just want to. That's why I think we're walking the right path.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U373	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U374	Dear colleague Aivar, a little while ago you said that driving around drunk in Estonia is far more dangerous than fighting a war on another continent. Now you explain there's a big difference between Mali and Afghanistan. We all know what Afghanistan is and what it ends with, everyone who has stuck their noses in it has gotten into trouble. I'm sorry, but that's exactly how it's been! But since Mali has a foot in the door at the right time, there should be some difference between these two situations. What is your assessment of the risk posed by Mali's mission to the people of Estonia? Is it more dangerous than Afghanistan's or safer? And are there social guarantees in place if something, for God's sake, happens?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U375	I would point out that our defence forces are not involved in combat. Our Defence Forces have been deployed as instructors. They have enough training to do this. They are well prepared for this, physically, mentally, and medically, i.e. they are protected when it is necessary to do so because of the specific nature of the region. Mali's mission is no more dangerous than that of Afghanistan. Of course, if the base is attacked, the instructor will take the gun, but the situation in Mali is such that there is no need for it. I would like to emphasise once again: support for the legitimate Government of Mali and the training of Mali's defence forces, and this has created the preconditions in good time for Mali to be able to cope with its problems. Once again, 12 500 African peacekeepers are being deployed in this territory and it is believed that Europe or NATO will not have any, but even less the European Union, which is contributing to the mission, will have a great need to introduce regular troops there. The French have proven that if you react at the right moment, it is possible to control the situation with relatively small units. The French did not have more than a few thousand men present, which in military terms is not a very large contingent.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U376	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U377	Dear waitress, Although you have pointed out that there is no participation in military activities, I have such a question. On what grounds and under what conditions do men go there? How are they chosen? Is it still considered that such a hot fire could lead to warfare, even if it is unlikely? They have to be ready for that. You said yourself that if the base was attacked, you'd have to jerk off the gun.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U378	Our Defence Forces are all very well prepared and the Estonian soldier is the best soldier in the world. Men will be selected for this mission, I think, like a very large part of the missions, on a voluntary basis. All citizens who have signed contracts of service do so of their own free will, no one has been sent anywhere by force. It may be necessary to admit that there has been a need for a little persuasion for some of the narrower specialists, but in general there is no such custom in Estonia. I think a person who has tied his fate to the Defence Forces is actually interested in going on missions. I dare say that if I no longer work in the Riigikogu, maybe I will.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U379	Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U380	Honourable waitress! We know that one of the main objectives of the French military mission in Mali was the restoration of the territorial integrity of this country and the achievement of central government control throughout its territory. These two missions, which the government and the Ministry of Defence, led by the Chairman of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, have come to ask us for a mandate, are actually aimed at consolidating what has been achieved. So we're talking about Mali's territorial integrity and central government control over the entire territory. Only a few months ago, one of the leading security experts of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union wrote about Eerik-Niles Kross Delfis Mali. He said that Mali's mission is testing Estonia's foreign policy. According to Kross, Estonia's foreign policy should not disregard the interests of the small people, the self-determination of the peoples and the human rights of the civilian population and go along with the requirement of the central government of Mali to maintain the territorial integrity of the country at all costs. How do you feel that the government, and especially the IRL, were united in the Commission's discussions and understood the objectives of these missions in the same way?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U381	I repeat to my colleagues that the Committee on National Defence is a unique committee in this sense, that we are speaking things out. We rely on the clear foreign policy needs of the Estonian state in our better faith, including that we must contribute together with our partners to ensuring the security of the Estonian state. That Eerik-Niles Kross has said something somewhere, I find it difficult to comment. But in this sense, Mr Mikser is right that the government that came to power by a military coup may not be the best option, but he is in any case someone to discuss matters with. This is now more of a matter for the future of the Committee on Foreign Affairs than we still want to have a say. It's up to us to fight, the war commission to fight, the Foreign Affairs Committee to conduct foreign policy. It is up to us now to ensure that territorial integrity is preserved, and this has been quite successful. Whatever negotiations are made with Tuaregs, whatever there will be autonomy, the division of this country is not foreseen by the international community. We in the Commission have a clear understanding that it is important for us to contribute to it in the sense that our good neighbours, the Swedes and the Finns, asked us to go there first and foremost, because we are going to rotate with them there. And in the long term, good military relations with Finland and Sweden are also important for Estonia as a result of the domestic situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U382	Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U383	The eight Defence Forces will also be sent from Estonia to Mali for a safer future. This security of the future was now very positive: yesterday, an agreement between the central government of Mali and the Tuaregs was signed in the capital of Burkina Faso. That's pretty fresh news. Tuaregs have previously said that they are willing to sign this agreement if certain conditions are met. Does our National Defence Committee already have any information on what these conditions are now fulfilled? A deal's been reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U384	The National Defence Commission doesn't have that kind of fresh information. If the chairman of the committee is more operationally briefed than the vice-chairman, he may know that. But I'm still sticking to the position that if the Military Commission, or the National Defence Commission, doesn't make it, things will go to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I hope that the Committee on Foreign Affairs does not think that when foreign policy ends, the Committee on National Defence will have to act more actively, because war is nothing more than a failed foreign policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U385	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U386	Dear waitress, My question is slightly wider than Mali's training mission, but I believe it is appropriate. How do you assess the current state of the Common European Defence Policy in the Committee on National Defence? With some training missions, such as the Mali mission in question, we can manage, we can also manage some peacekeeping operations, but in cases where more serious intervention is needed, the military capacity of the European Union countries to resolve situations, also on their borders, is still extremely limited. Let us remind ourselves of Libya, where the European countries first hit the rubber in the chest, that we would go and solve the problem, but when it came to the point, it turned out that, to a large extent, only the US had military capabilities. In this light, how do you generally assess the unity of the European Union in defence policy issues and its ability to deal with situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U387	Thanks, that's a pretty good question! We do not want to admit to ourselves that for us, we say, for Estonians, Estonian patriots and people who regard Estonia's statehood as important, who remember history is too soft today's Europe. I'm afraid that's true. The National Defence Committee has visited several European Union countries. Norway is sympathetic, Germany is very soft, Sweden is very soft, Finland is a little warier, but unfortunately it does not want to hear from NATO. But it is important to us that NATO is a functioning organisation. The fact that in the European Union, due to all kinds of cultural and economic differences, a single effective military force such as NATO does not exist is an inevitable one that should be accepted. By its own personal example, Estonia has shown that the model of national defence, as we have it, is right for a sensible and small European country. It starts with teaching young men life and preparing them for it in social terms. Military training and the armed forces as a whole have a slightly broader meaning for a young person than simply being subjected to the harsh compulsion of the state. But that is not important for today's subject. What is important is that we recently went to an undertaking with a strange name with the Commission. It was essentially the Northeast European Corps with its headquarters in Stettin. The exercise of this staff took place in Estonia and I had, a little provocator, as I love to be, quite fun to discuss with Polish and German Colonels, to tell them how nice it has been to see them again in Estonia, after all, we have seen them in different positions here before. The German was gloomier, the Polack was happier, I didn't remind him of the way the Poles dug a ditch in the 1930s. But let's just say there's no really let-down situation. I assure you once again that what we are doing in our national defence is that we have agreed something in consensus between the political forces here, which is very positive. All our steps will help to prevent conflicts - no one wants to fight you if they are sure they can fight you back. That's why I don't think there's any reason for general sadness. Even a small incident by plane to Sweden has once again caused Swedish society to talk about the fact that national defence is a thing that will not be built in one day. I believe that Europe is able to learn, and I also believe that everything is under control.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U388	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U389	Good colleague! Estonian Defence Forces have participated in many major and smaller training missions. How have the foreign missions so far affected the preparation of our Defence Forces, and what impact could Mali's mission have?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U390	Mali's mission is primarily a toning mission for our Defence Forces, because teacher status has always been a gram better than student status. If we send our men as teachers, that means they want to be invited there. So they're good. And by interacting with colleagues from other countries in different cultural environments, they will certainly gain quite a lot of experience. All these foreign missions, where Estonia has so far participated, have given us more than 3,000 military troops with battle experience. I believe you've all read Remarque. When the young soldiers had arrived on the front, the old wolves told them that now forget everything you were taught at school and stay close to me, you will probably see tomorrow morning as well. We have 3,000 men worth keeping close to, and that's a great asset.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U391	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U392	Here's the question. As a Member of the Commission, have you also spoken about the content of the debate held in the Commission in your group? Have they heard about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U393	Let's just say that the content of this mission is very clear. The content of this mission can be summarised in two sentences: our bottom-up partners and the European Union as a whole have asked Estonia to contribute to the Malian training mission with eight members of the Defence Forces. This figure is due to an objective need. In general, the framework for missions will develop on an operational tactical basis with which MEPs do not need to be informed. With this draft, we are also expanding our participation in the UN mission, and I believe that the UN missions are perhaps even more important for Estonia than those of the European Union or NATO. The United Nations missions still have a very broad support area, thanks to the UN membership, and that is why the United Nations is now a militarily but essentially a stronger organisation than NATO. I think that my colleagues will certainly understand this and will not vote against it. Colleagues now simply want to clarify, and it is my duty to answer them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U394	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U395	Good colleague Riisalu, who will enlighten me too! In 2003, two members of the Defence Forces were sent to Mali to train and advise the Malian Armed Forces together with military personnel from other European countries. Can you give me an overview of how they succeeded, and did this send justify it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U396	In my opinion, no one was sent there from Estonia in 2003, at least I have no information about it. And if I don't have any information, I don't know how to comment on it. I owe you an answer right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U397	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U398	Dear Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Commission. In the Centre Party Group, you introduced this mission to Mali quite thoroughly, but you didn't touch on one topic. Has the National Defence Commission been familiar with the country in advance, or is there a plan to go there? As far as I know, the National Defence Committee has visited every place where Estonia has sent its people on a foreign mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U399	Yes, the National Defence Committee has a clear desire to travel there, and if our economic opportunities allow this, we will certainly do so. It may seem strange to an outsider and as a tourist trip, but I assure you that flying with open hatches in a helicopter next to a machine gun in the desert of Afghanistan is a feeling the Member must feel before he decides to send his soldiers there. At least the National Defence Commission has benefited greatly. I think it's respectable if the civilian side shows its presence in one way or another when a mission is important to our country. It motivates, it shows that it's not like someone's making a decision somewhere deep in the office, and somebody else has to help with that soup somewhere in the desert sand. You're still getting married, as they say, on the battlefield. It's a whole other thing, and it's going from mouth to mouth. It's important. So I'm sure we'll drive in when we get this chance. We are similarly involved in a variety of circumstances, in particular this is an economic problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U400	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U401	Dear waitress, You said at the beginning of your presentation that Estonia should take part in all the missions that are possible and that participating in the missions is in any case beneficial to the Estonian Defence Forces. Is it the Commission's general view that we are taking part in all the missions that we are being offered or invited to, or are there some sort of selection criteria? And if so, what are these selection criteria, whether they are defence policy or foreign policy? If they are foreign policy, is it not going to do too much foreign policy, or is it going to do so? What about these selection criteria?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U402	When I expressed myself in such a way that Estonia was trying to participate in absolutely all the missions, I was emotionally imprecise. This is certainly not what Estonia is trying to do. As a NATO country, we have told our partners that we are prepared to contribute up to 10% of our defence forces on foreign missions. Estonia has more or less maintained this level. It is quite certain that our country is primarily based on foreign policy in planning missions and participating in missions. We rely on international cooperation and on the broader meaning of participation in any military operation. At the moment, I dare stress once again that Mali's mission is a desire to deepen cooperation with its immediate neighbours. There are dozens, if not hundreds, of wars in progress in the world, and we do not participate in them. Estonia has acted in this regard within the limits of its possibilities. And I'll tell you frankly and frankly, it's sad, but if our Defence Forces had no chance of serving outside, it would be pretty difficult for us to keep the Defence Forces professionals together. For the simple reason that for a very large number of men, going on a mission is also economically important. After all, the economic side of the mission policy is that it is possible for people to lay the foundations of their own personal budget in addition to the experience and perhaps the moment of adventure that is important for someone. It is a sad thing to say, but we cannot yet pay them enough money to serve in our home country. Of course, we are working to make life better for all of us, all of the people of Estonia. In general, however, I think that we have so far decided in a calm, balanced and quite rational way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U403	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U404	Dear Aivar Riisalu! My ear was scratched by Mati Raidma's question, which sounded something like why you're even asking why you're not clear. Unlike the Reform Party, where Andrus Ansip has formulated the orientation that they will not be asked, I will, however, exercise this right. All the more so, this is not only information I need, but we are also being broadcast online in national broadcasting. So obviously there are more interested people than just people sitting in this room. I want to know that kind of thing. Every time Estonia goes on a mission, it must also be clear what the relevant exit strategy is. What's the situation in Mali so we don't extend our mission anymore?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U405	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U406	Mr Aivar! It's very nice that men in Mali are now gaining knowledge and experience, as you said. First, there must have been two instructors, now there's seven. Can you also see from a perspective that Mali's mission could be part of a single unit of a whole team or a company? Then they would learn how to truly shoulder to shoulder, a man to fight alongside a man, and our participation in such an important event in a faraway country would be much more visible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U407	The softness of the United States is a concern. This is for the simple reason that the world has not yet become safe. Without a clear existence of balanced military forces, problems may get out of control in different regions. I hope, however, that the world has so much sense that the great powers do not go so far towards each other that the small states should feel between these millstones what they now felt almost three quarters of a century ago. But the truth is that my way of telling people about the hysteria of war is widely known and some have even advised me to take a pill on it. But over time, I've had this strange notion that something's going to explode somewhere, one way or another. And I once again assure you that if we want to be prepared to defend ourselves and our ideas, we need to be prepared constantly. It will not be possible to start today if it is necessary tomorrow. I hope that the United States will not tire out, I hope NATO will not tire out, I hope that our eastern neighbour is reasonable, I hope that China, which is practicing very strange and very successful capitalism under the leadership of the Communist Party, will not become aggressive. That's when we can do almost anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U408	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U409	Ladies and gentlemen, As I understand it, Estonian soldiers are already participating in Mali's mission. At the same time, we have a draft decision on the table that should allow Estonian military personnel to participate in the peace-building mission in Mali. What's wrong with this picture?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U410	There is nothing wrong with this picture, because we have already given the Estonian soldiers a mandate with our earlier decision. That's what you did, Mr. Tarmo Tamm, with your push of the button in this hall. If memory doesn't fool me, it was up to three militia, but two of them are on the scene. Nothing illegal has been committed by the Estonian state. Estonia is not rushing anywhere, with a gun in its hand, through the door, shouting yourself, to hear whether you ordered war. That's not what we do.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U411	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U412	Dear waitress, thank you for your excellent presentation and exciting answers. I was a little upset by one of the answers you said I wasn't doing politics, I was fighting. If it were a representative of the General Staff of the Defence Forces who said so to Members of Parliament in the Committee on National Defence, I would understand that. If this is what the National Defence Commission, as the representative of the lead committee, says in the debate on the mandate of the mission in the large Chamber, then it seems to me that if it really is the position of the entire National Defence Commission that the National Defence Commission is fighting and the Committee on Foreign Affairs is making a policy, then perhaps in this context consideration should be given to giving the role of the lead committee to the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the future. I think that the security policy aspect of these missions cannot in any way be of minor importance for decision-making.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U413	That's what you nailed to the wall! You know that in the Republic of Estonia there is virtually no parliament. Parliament is a rubber temple, from which, after the elections, the better sons go to the government and start telling Parliament how to live and behave. The opposition has no one in the government, and therefore no one listens to him. That is why I dared to argue that it is my business to examine the draft submitted to me by the government in substance. I always try to do this because of my military training. I have conducted mission training as a reserve officer of the Republic of Estonia, i.e. I am prepared to travel to the crisis area if it is needed in a little wider picture in my home country. However, I would like to emphasise once again that the Committee on National Defence must make a decision after a proper analysis of the situation. Parliament, as we know, is a formal proclaimer of war, but it still does so after experts have said that this could be done. From this point of view, it is as if I have not said something too much, Mr Mikser. If we're offered a mission and we say it's okay, it's okay, then it's like we're pressing a button with our committee vote and we're going to fight. In essence, I have not violated the limits of my mandate. I'm not walking around the world, and I'm not tearing open the doors, so listen, I'm from the Estonian Parliament if you want a war. That's not what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U414	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U415	Since we are already asking and answering a little bit more intimately, seeing your brave and imagining your potential, I wondered whether, after the local elections, there would be no more or less waiting for you than the office of the Mayor of Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U416	This was not discussed in the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U417	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U418	Good waitress! All this NATO cooperation is still driven by the great contribution and initiative of the United States. How would you comment on the argument that the United States is increasingly looking to the east in its military initiatives, not towards Europe, but in our sense? I mean China and Korea.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U419	Dear Aivar Riisalu! Certainly, the territorial integrity of Mali and the reduction of the terrorist threat there are in the interest of the whole of Europe. This is certainly also in the interests of Estonia, which we are a small part of Europe. If we look at France and also England's great concern at the containment of terrorism and follow the discussions that have erupted since this military coup, it is clear that reducing this threat, its so-called "encapsulation" in Africa, is very important. Is our approximately 550 military personnel a big or small contribution so that the threat of terrorism does not extend to Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U420	Again, this is about the fact that the operational-tactical situation can be both different and different. When we talk about combat units and the exit of combat units from the crisis area, as is the case with Afghanistan, exit plans are being made in advance for a long time. Exit has also been reported to the Afghan Government, leaving the country is basically in the planning phase and it is known in advance how this will happen. The removal of combat units is relatively difficult, especially when the opponent exerts pressure on the operation. The situation for Mali's mission is radically different. The UN peacekeepers have actually fled a little too quickly from some of the world's crises, particularly in the 1990s. Getting our men out of Mali is only sending one plane there, and they're out of there. They don't bring any special equipment. They carry personal things, their knowledge and skills. So there's no such thing as a deep problem. I also believe that this is more of a matter for foreign policy makers, but the area is in the French sphere of influence, and the French are certainly not going to let the situation get out of control. I believe that the other countries of the European Union do not have to make their military contribution there. However, this is a different situation than that in Afghanistan, for example. I tell you honestly and directly that civilized or, let's say, living territory is relatively few there. In the desert, there's not much to drive on anything but a fighter plane. So I don't think we're gonna have any problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U421	Thank you. Let's keep going. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U422	Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been said several times, this is in many respects the first step in the history of Estonia's security policy. When we started dealing with the draft decision to send Estonian Defence Forces to Mali, i.e. to Africa, I found myself wondering when I first became aware of the existence of this country. And I remembered a collection of Norwegian children's poetry from childhood, which in Estonian was entitled "Silent Trolls," which contains the poem of the famous Norwegian children's writer and translator Zinken Hopp, which begins with the words 'Long, Far, Far Timbuktus lived in Sara-Bara-Buu... ', the Heljo Männi translation, if I'm not mistaken. Then I thought that, indeed, Estonia's participation in world politics, in the security of the world, in the undivided security of the world, many of us, so-called traditionally distant regions, have made us very close from an unexpected angle. Indeed, the claim that security and stability in Afghanistan have a direct impact on Estonia's security and stability is no longer surprising. Similarly, we must practice ourselves with the idea that security and stability on the African continent have a direct impact on the security and stability of the whole of Europe, including certainly Estonia's security and stability. Not only do we need to think about participating in the mission from the point of view that it certainly gives our defence forces as an invaluable experience of how much it costs us, or even from the point of view that it is our duty to answer yes to the prayers of our allies, because there is more hope that they will also respond positively to our prayers if we are in distress. We should get used to thinking about these issues, certainly from the point of view of the undivided security of the world. There have been positive developments in Mali in recent months and weeks. I would like to draw attention to the negotiations already referred to by my colleague, Enn Front, between the Government of Mali and the separatists in the neighbouring Burkina Faso. It was only yesterday that a groundbreaking agreement was reached, which, according to UN Special Representative Bert Koenders, a former Dutch socialist minister for development aid, creates opportunities for real reconciliation, unite the country and represents an important step towards stabilising the security situation in Mali as a whole. At the same time, it would certainly be short-sighted to assume that this agreement will bring stability to Mali and North Africa as a whole overnight. Only a week ago, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, in his report, drew attention to the still very volatile and, at the same time, very tense security situation in the country. He also spoke directly about issues not related to the military conflict, such as violations of human rights and the use of child soldiers by the parties. It must be borne in mind that such long-term ethnic, regional and religious conflicts are also not solved by massive external intervention over a few months or even a few years. I recall a meeting of the European Union Affairs Commission a few years ago when we took part in the events of the so-called Arab Spring. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U423	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U424	The Egyptian government's exchange and one memo on the fall of President Hosni Mubarak's regime claimed to us that the democratic process in Egypt was irreversible. At the time, I dared to ask the government official who presented this memo to us, on which, after the 30-year period of office of Mubarak and more than half a century of military dictatorship in that country, his optimism that a few weeks after the fall of this regime, the democratic process has proved irreversible. The answer to this question was missed at the time, but the intermediate developments in that country force us to ask whether this process is irreversible and how long it will take for democracy to take to take in these regions and countries, which are often ethnically and religiously divided. Nevertheless, we cannot look at developments such as those of terrorists, extremists, Islamists, grabbing and controlling territory in Mali, all the more so as our allies in Europe have approached us with a request for help. So the decision to send Estonian Defence Forces on these two missions is definitely worthwhile, one is the support of the European Union and the other is the support of the United Nations mission to this hall. I think it is very welcome that such an in-depth debate has taken place here today. Often, the deployment of much more Estonian Defence Forces to the world's crisis areas has found a much more brief and superficial approach to NATO, but UN-led operations in this hall. So I congratulate us all on having this serious and thorough debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U425	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. No amendments have been received to draft 437 and the lead committee has proposed that the final vote on this draft decision be taken at second reading. So let's start preparing the final vote. Dear colleagues, I will put draft 437 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 67 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, four abstentions. The use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali have been approved by the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic. The eighth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U426	I do not approve of this option, and Estonia will probably never have to discuss this option. I don't think there's anything to worry about. Perhaps the comment on the previous answer would be so much that Mati Raidma was not at all malicious when he asked his question. Mati Raidma also understands that indeed, if we explain missions in the verbatim of the sitting a little more widely, it will give people more information. For the sake of the stenogram, we are ready to talk a little more about these missions in the future. Because indeed, the Estonian people understand the need for national defence in a uniform manner and more than 90% of the population supports the current model, but it is still reasonable to encourage people and explain their needs. I do not think we have made any mistakes in this regard today either.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U427	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U428	Good colleague! We had a little misunderstanding. I was talking about March 2013. It was my first question whether this sending was justified. But my second question is presented from a rather social perspective. A soldier wounded in Afghanistan will be delivered to England for treatment, under the hands of the British, and well organized. How is this organized for Mali?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U429	It is not Parliament's job to worry about medevac in the mission area. I think that Medevac is well organised there, and I am quite convinced that if something should happen to our people there, which is relatively unlikely, the European Union has certainly organised all the logistical support. Why not treat cripples in a hospital in Stockholm, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U430	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U431	Dear waitress, Your answer to my first question sounded like an interesting view that, unlike NATO, where there is very good defence cooperation, the common defence policy of the European Union is soft because European countries are culturally different. What you are saying is that countries such as Albania, Turkey and the US have somehow brought together the countries of the European Union culturally. But the real problem is you didn't answer my first question. This question was how the Committee on National Defence assesses the current state of the Common European Defence Policy, given that many countries of the European Union are not members of NATO. What is Estonia's strategic position towards which direction should the common defence policy develop?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U432	It's my job to fight, not to do politics. I therefore still dare to say that if I am told in the German Parliament that we have no enemies, I will try to ask them whether this means that you do not need to bet. They're destroying their militia right now, leaving it about 6,000 men. They keep around four tank battalions, ready to contribute to the rapid response, above all, as I understand it, in the European Union and NATO. It makes the shoulders shrive, of course. It is clear that Latvia and Lithuania, including the members of the European Union, have failed completely with their national defence architecture. Turkey is not a member of the European Union, but is one of the best and most angry contributors to NATO. Norway is not a member of the European Union, but it understands very well what defence is. To my question, why do you do it almost as we do, a female colonel in Norway, by the way, said very nicely: 'We have a border of 126 kilometres with a certain country. It doesn't give us a chance to make concessions. ' See, this is exactly how NATO is a clear-cut military organisation, which, in particular, guarantees its members military protection under § 5. NATO is jointly developing military capabilities and, unfortunately, there, yes, the dragging countries are what we like or not to deny there, the United States and Turkey. As far as the European Union's military cooperation is concerned, it has not been tangible. That is why I dare say that what I have seen in several European Parliaments meeting my colleagues has been rather a soft policy. It will not be sustainable if they continue to do so. That is why I repeat what I have already said today: we do not have to think about whether or not there will be a war, we need to think about when it will start.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U433	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U434	Dear waitress, The National Defence Committee may also know what the next missions might be. Missions don't fall out of the sky, they don't come out of the sky in an instant, they're prepared for a year or two, they're looking for partners and allies. Are there any other places that we need to send the Estonian boys to now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U435	Unlike many colleagues who are satisfied with the fact that there is no further war, I do have tears in my throat. A small war would keep us alert, but it really doesn't look like it. I hope that Europeans and Americans are so smart that they will not stick their noses in Syria for the simple reason that it will still be very painful. Then I'd start thinking that suddenly I'm old and no more good.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U436	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U437	Honourable waitress! You certainly know which countries are represented in Mali as a pre-mission. What is this land?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U438	That's a pretty good question now! I admit the black soldiers I last saw were all the same. However, we did not remember and can therefore count 12,500 African states from the soldiers' homelands. But from the countries of the European Union, I certainly dare to mention Finland, Sweden and France. Apparently, a number of other members of the European Union are still taking part. Unfortunately, the National Defence Committee did not address this issue at its meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U439	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U440	Well, 550 military personnel have never been on foreign missions at the same time. We have a little over three hundred military personnel outside at the top of the rotation. This is a sufficient contribution for Estonia. Estonia is a wise country. We have public finances in order. We have a balanced state budget. We'll bet exactly as much as we can. We're not taking on too much responsibility. We are essentially resolving defence issues. We build our defences on three pillars: military service, frame army, the Defence League. And it is necessary for a small country even if the social consequences are painful. A deep bow to the Social Democrats that you are not opposed to allocating 2% of GDP, that you find the courage of citizenship to be men and women for whom your country is important. That is why I will say it again: the only thing we have not lost is national defence. Because we have public finances in order, we have a balanced state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U441	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U442	Good waitress! As far as public finances are concerned, I disagree because we have been in deficit for the past four years. But that's it. The way I see it, NATO's leading state is a little soft, but the Estonian defence system should be like a big eagle's hard flight. There is a Big, Hard and Eagle in the Social Group. Thank you for the credit! But here's what I wanted to ask you. When Parliament is compared with the rubber stamp and is talking about soft and hard values, it seems to me that the temple itself is quite a hard thing, but what it is pressed into is a soft form. Perhaps it is not enough to compare the entire Parliament with the rubber stamp; perhaps we should look at the coalition and call them the rubber stamp pillow.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U443	This was not discussed in the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U444	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U445	I was very cautious about the question of my colleague, Enn Frontland. If you come to Tartu soon and you win the election and you become mayor and are ready to fight who you are fighting there in Tartu? Or do you want to go on a mission somewhere, like in Tallinn? Please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U446	I think in Tartu I'm fighting the Snots. But the National Defence Commission did not discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U447	Dear colleagues, please remain within the scope of Bill 437! Good waitress, thank you! There are no further questions or challenges for you. Do you want to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Enn Fronta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U448	After Maestro Riisalu, it's ungrateful to perform, but I'm still trying. Indeed, alongside Syria, Mali's topic has long been the focus of the attention of the whole world community, especially the media and military people. In the Riigikogu, the topic has been the focus of interest primarily in two committees. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have spoken about these matters correctly on several occasions. Some time ago a meeting took place with the Russian Head of State Vladimir Putin's Special Representative in Africa, Mikhail Margelov, and we took the opportunity to analyse the situation in Mali alongside other issues. All the more so since Mr Margelov has been in this troubled area several times. We have emphasised and supported Estonia's position to start the European Union mission in Mali as soon as possible. As we know, we sent staff officers to the area. We are of the opinion that, alongside the rejection of extremists, the implementation of the development plan drawn up by the Malian Government, which aims, among other things, to organise free presidential and parliamentary elections, to restore the territorial integrity of the state, to achieve the physical and social security of citizens and the rule of law, is a priority. We are, of course, concerned about human rights violations in the areas of Mali under the control of rebels. We congratulate France and the other countries of the European Union that contributed to it and the countries of West Africa for taking swift and decisive action in a critical situation. At the same time, it is important that extremists who are forced to leave Mali do not find a new area to operate, we know that at times they have succeeded. An important undertaking was a conference of contributors to Mali, held in Brussels in May, on the initiative of the European Union. It is recalled that international donors pledged EUR 3.25 billion to Mali to recover from Islamist conquests, which are initially much more than the 2 billion planned. The topic of Mali has been discussed continuously at the meetings of the defence ministers of the European Union, as well as at the meetings of the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union, where Estonia's positions have also helped to develop the Committee on Foreign Affairs, together with representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Both our committee and the National Defence Committee receive ongoing information about the situation in Mali, and the Defence Forces General Staff will provide information on the activities of Estonian representatives there. As we know, two possible action plans were considered at UN level quite recently. One option was to set up a United Nations peacekeeping mission and to leave some French units in place. Under the second scenario, both AFISMA and UN blue helmets would have remained on the ground, operating in parallel. Now we know the decision has been made. The European Union military training mission in Mali was launched in April. Two Estonian staff officers will participate in this mission. In Mali there is also an Estonian deminer who has experience in disarming explosive devices of Russian origin, such are used unusually often in Mali. We welcomed the decision of the Malian Government to establish a Committee on Dialogue and Reconciliation, which is a step forward in achieving the objectives of the transition roadmap adopted in January. It was therefore a pleasure to read yesterday's news of an agreement with the Tuaregs, who have occupied a strategically important city in eastern Mali. The agreement will hopefully pave the way for a general election on 28 July. The Head of State of Burkina Faso, Blaise Compaoré, also contributed to the agreement. The deteriorating humanitarian situation in Mali is a cause for concern. There are over a quarter of a million internally displaced persons in the country, a few hundred thousand people have left for neighbouring countries. Therefore, the continuation of several humanitarian aid programmes in support of the Malian people is likely to remain valid for a long time. Estonia is also known to make a small contribution. The situation in Mali will certainly be discussed at the Nordic-Africa Summit in Finland this weekend, where Mali's representatives will also be present. In addition to direct military mathematics, Hämeenlinna talks about international peace mediation, arms trafficking, as well as the efforts and plans of African countries to promote democracy, human rights and governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U449	Let's move on to item nine. The second reading of the basic school and upper secondary school law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related draft law amending other laws begins. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Cultural Commission Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U450	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu has prepared for a second reading a list of texts and explanatory notes and amendments to the basic school and upper secondary school law and related amendments to other laws. The Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 13 December 2012. The draft is based on the principles of modernisation of the educational organisation developed by the Ministry of Education and Research. The aim is to better ensure that quality education is equally accessible and to change the forms of basic school and upper secondary school operations, the organisation of teaching, the management of the school, the work of teachers, their remuneration and the principles of financing the school. On the proposal of the Committee on Culture, the Management Board of the Riigikogu set the deadline for submitting amendments on 15 March. Amendments to the draft were tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group. A total of 29 institutions, associations and people, from the Association of Estonian Early Education Leaders to the Vallavolikogu of Tõstamaa and Tõstamaa Municipality and Tõstamaa Secondary School, submitted their proposals and opinions. The Committee on Culture discussed the draft, preparing it for a second reading, at 26 sessions. The Commission divided the draft into thematic blocks and discussed these issues with stakeholders. Following the examination of the thematic blocks, the amendments were examined and voted through. There were over 200 of them. Today, ladies and gentlemen, 92 amendments have been tabled in the list of amendments. The Committee on Culture has taken procedural decisions on the draft, which will be proposed to a large hall. On 13 June we decided to propose that Bill 340 should come to second reading in Riigikogu plenary on 19 June. On 18 June, we decided to propose the end of the second reading of the draft. When the second reading is completed, the third reading of the draft should be placed on the agenda of the additional sitting of the Riigikogu as soon as possible. I will now give more details on the amendments. I'll deal with them in the thematic blocks, so you'll find it easier to follow what I'm saying. The first amendment has come from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and concerns the abandonment of the concept of pedagogy provided for in the draft. The Ministry of Education and Research has confirmed that the draft is only a replacement of one concept. In the draft, the term 'pedagog' is replaced by 'Director', 'director','support specialist' and 'teacher'. This step does not reduce the guarantees of any person to date. The Committee on Culture did not support this proposal of the Centre Party. It is worth noting, however, that the Commission considered it necessary to further analyse the issue of teacher assistance as a whole, also with a view to supporting the development of the student. Amendments 2 to 10 deal with the forms of school operation. The Committee on Culture did not support the amendments proposed by the Central Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group concerning the forms of school operation. It was proposed to delete amendments to the forms of school operation, together with the implementing provisions, from the draft. As a result of the Commission's discussion, the Ministry of Education and Research proposed in the draft to clarify this, it is important that if we want to reconcile education of interest with general education, allowing general education to also provide an education of interest in general education, students who are studying under an area-of-interest curriculum must also be guaranteed the rights they have when studying in a separate community-of-interest school. The funding of an education of interest must not give rise to differences depending on whether the school of interest is acting as a separate institution or together with the general school as a joint institution. I consider it important to mention Amendments 16 and 18. They relate to the obligation of the three courses of study in upper secondary school. In particular, the Committee on Culture proposes to remove from the draft the obligation for upper secondary schools to offer students three courses of study. In essence, the Committee on Culture has taken into account the proposals of the Estonian Centre Party in this regard. The draft did not initially intend to address this issue, but the amendments allow it. It is important to say that, although, as a result of the discussion in the Committee on Culture, we decided to exclude the obligation of the three courses of study, as it has become an artificial requirement, there is a provision in the draft which obliges the upper secondary school to provide students with sufficient choice, as is appropriate for the upper secondary school. It is important to note that the issue of Steiner and the Waldorf schools has also resolved by formulating this amendment. They were concerned that if three courses of study were rigidly required, then the specific curriculum, pedagogical content and keeping of these schools at all could be compromised. Proposals Nos 19 and 20 concern the obligation of the State to hold upper secondary school. We did not support the Central Party Group's proposal that the state should agree with the local government to ensure the protection of the interests of the local community when setting up a secondary school. This problem has been solved in such a way that the state commits itself to more clearly ensuring access to high-quality upper secondary school education. The draft requires at least one state-owned upper secondary school in each county by 2020. This is something that the Ministry of Education and Research would certainly like to mention here, that the school network is wanted to be organized, of course, in cooperation with municipalities and on the basis of mutual agreements. There was also a question of whether in the future it would be possible to consider that the entire upper secondary school was held at national level. The Ministry replied that this could not be ruled out. Proposals Nos 21 and 23 concern ensuring compliance with school obligations. Once again, both the amendment on the three courses of study and the amendment on ensuring compliance with school obligations were made in consensus within the Commission. The Committee on Culture proposes that the proposed changes to the conditions for determining the place of residence be removed from the draft. The proposal of the Ministry of Education was not supported by the Commission, and we are now continuing with the existing regulation of the PGS on the place of residence school, under which every child must be provided with a place in the school of his place of residence. If there is room in the school, students can also be taken from outside the area. I believe this is a customary arrangement for many. This draft does not deal with school tests; we did not change this regulation. Amendment 24 concerns parental co-financing when a child is studying under an international curriculum. There was also a very long and in-depth discussion with stakeholders on this issue. The Committee on Culture proposes to withdraw from the draft the possibility proposed by the government that schools may ask parents for co-financing if the child is studying on the basis of an international curriculum. This is an IBO curriculum. The Commission found that there has not been sufficient analysis of the situation where pupils in general education have paid for their studies and students who study free of charge. This was not the case with the IBO curriculum. The Commission's proposal is the proposed option to delete it from the draft. Proposal No 26 concerns teaching literature. I would like to say that there was a very in-depth debate in the Commission on several occasions with representatives of publishers. The Commission asked the Ministry of Education and Research to draw up a proposal to amend the draft. We approved this proposal, which was presented to us by the Ministry, which has been taken into account as a Commission proposal. According to this, the Minister is in any case empowered to establish a minimum list of teaching literature and therefore the State must ensure that there is a minimum level of teaching literature, but this list is not mandatory for schools to choose teaching literature. I can explain it later, but that's the way it is. Secondly, the proposal provides (there has also been a great deal of debate about this) that the problem of access to digital teaching literature can be resolved under the conditions and procedures agreed between the parties, i.e. the Ministry and the publisher. It's not like the publishing house has to do what the ministry says. Negotiations are taking place and a clear agreement needs to be reached. Proposals 28 and 29 concern school holidays. This issue was not initially included in the draft, but on the proposal of our colleagues from the Estonian Centre Party Group, we dealt with it thoroughly. The idea is that schools, both in primary schools and in upper secondary schools, have the opportunity and the right not to be obliged, but to have the possibility and right to impose an additional break. We are talking about spring when students may be exhausted because of the long winter and the rainy summer that preceded it. Then there's an extra break, but it's only an option. Amendments 32 and 33 concern the conditions for admission to upper secondary school. No major changes have been made here, there are some clarifications. Amendments 36 and 37 on graduating from upper secondary school should be discussed in greater detail. The Committee on Culture proposes to amend the conditions for graduating from upper secondary school, which will enter into force on 1 September 2013. With the PGS that came into force in 2010, we introduced a requirement that a threshold of 50% should be set for the positive certification of state examinations. This has been a major response in society. The Ministry of Education came up with a proposal to change the state examination system and to return essentially to earlier arrangements, as they were introduced in 1996. More importantly, we have three state exams, but the result of the state exams is not directly binding on the student, I stress. The State Exam shall be deemed to have been passed if 1% of the points have been collected. Proposals 38 and 42 are extremely important. They concern access to support services and support for student development. In short, on the proposal of the Committee on Culture, the Ministry of Education and Research prepared amendments to ensure better access to support services, i.e. specialised pedagogy, social pedagogy and psychologist services. A legal basis will be created for the establishment of regional support centres, which will certainly significantly improve the availability of these services. It is important that the Minister of Education and Research can be obliged by regulation to establish a description of the support services and the scope, conditions and procedures for their provision by the State. I believe that this is a very important change. Proposal No 39 concerns development discussions. This is a very long debate. It remains the procedure for the development discussions to take place. I would also like to mention as important the proposal No 54, with which we will significantly increase the role of schools' chambers of care. It was a proposal from the Parents' Association. The board of trustees has a role to play, inter alia, in coordinating the organisation of teachers' salaries. Proposals No 55.60 concern school staff. As a result of the discussion by the Committee on Culture, the Ministry of Education and Research prepared a new and more precise wording concerning school staff, based on the wording of the VET Act. The question is that from 1 January 2014 a switch to the professional system will take place. This system does not directly replace the system of accreditation, as these systems have different objectives, but the qualifications of teachers will take effect. It is important to say that the higher levels of accreditation are valid until the end of their nominal period. The payment of remuneration for grades is equally guaranteed. Proposals No 61 was made on teacher's pay. The Commission did not support the amendments tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group. However, we have supplemented the bill by the need for the headmaster to negotiate remuneration arrangements with teachers and to listen to the board of trustees and submit them to the school manager for approval. In the past, the Director had a very high degree of exclusive competence, and now these coordination steps have been introduced here. Proposals No 69-78 on the financing of schools are very important. The Committee on Culture proposes to remove the proposed changes to funding from the draft. It is important to add what we have also written in the explanatory memorandum: the Ministry of Education and Research has promised us that in autumn, when a new draft PGS on funding comes up, there will be a financing regulation. Prior to the discussions in the Riigikogu, the funding arrangements so far will not be amended by the Government of the Republic regulation. It is important that amendments to the Pre-school Children's Institution Act have been taken out of here, as the Ministry is planning to come up with a separate draft on pre-school children's institutions. The proposals have now been substantially examined. I have already given an overview of the procedural decisions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U451	Thank you, good waitress. You have a few questions. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U452	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! I have also studied the new version of the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school. Sadly, the concept of teacher help is no longer in the law. Other support specialists are at least in there as a result of a major struggle. We hope that they will continue to be financed. But in Ida-Virumaa and other regions, students first study in Russian and at some point they must start studying some subjects in Estonian. There are currently teachers who help the child, because the child may not understand everything immediately if he or she does not speak Estonian well. Why the change?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U453	Thank you. We have both assistant teachers and teachers. They're still at work on the basis of every school's decision. No one will forbid the school to hire them and pay them in the future. It is not prohibited in the slightest. Even now, it is not so precisely enshrined in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U454	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U455	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Chairman of the Committee on Culture, My question concerns § 31 (5). The last sentence of this paragraph now reads: 'The state examination is completed if at least one per cent of the maximum result is achieved. 'It's 1 ball out of 100. I have a very specific question about this. The Ministry of Education has drawn up several documents on this subject. For example, mathematics sets out the objectives, form and organisation of the exam, the level of knowledge and skills required by the exam. Were these documents under discussion in the committee when you put it in the 1% bill? Did you look at them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U456	There was a very thorough debate in the Commission on the state examinations and the setting of the national threshold. We relied on a wide range of documents and analyses, including statistics on how the test results have changed. No significant differences in exam results were observed regardless of whether the threshold was 1% or 20%. The Commission supported the introduction of a 1% provision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U457	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U458	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the most questions about the creation of state secondary schools in every county, which in itself should be excellent and welcome. First, however, it is subjective how these state secondary schools are formed and where they are created. This depends very much on political suitability. Secondly, if a state upper secondary school is created in the county, this means that municipal secondary schools cannot compete with it in any way. Good colleague, I'll give you an example from Põlvamaa. If, by some miracle, Põlva City were to be founded a state gymnasium, how could Räpina or Värska School resist this unhealthy competition?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U459	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U460	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I'm gonna pick on some technical, actually legal questions. There are two questions on my question. Has this bill been editorially edited, as they say? After all, many amendments have been made, and there are examples of marksmanship: 'In upper secondary school, the school manager guarantees the upper secondary school... ' It was § 71. But here's what I want to ask you. The concept of "state foundation" is used in the draft. In our legal space, we have long lost the concept of "public limited company," the Port of Tallinn is no longer RAS and so on. However, the term'state foundation' has been used everywhere in the draft. The Foundations Act simply states that the Foundation is a private legal entity. The state can form it. The text of the draft act, however, sets out specific national foundations. What does that mean? What does it mean to emphasise?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U461	Thank you very much. I apologise to all my fellow Members for the fact that the text of the second reading of the draft has not been sufficiently felt by the language editor for certain reasons, but the more carefully the language editors and our advisers are working on the third reading text. There are, yes, grammatical or fingertips inside, as they say, but they'll definitely be fixed later. As regards the State foundation, it is likely that it is a state-owned or state-owned foundation. That's how you understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U462	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U463	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Mikhail Stalnukhin asked my question, but I didn't get the answer. As a parent, I am very concerned about the possibility of taking a test with a 1% result. I don't know what that means in practice. What does a person have to do on an exam to get only one ball? Is it enough to just show up, or is there something else to do? One ball out of 100!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U464	Thank you. The Committee on Culture does not produce State Examination Questionnaires, but the educational policy idea of this change in the organisation of the state Examination is that we give priority to the whole learning process and do not support training and concentration of efforts solely for the State Exam. The result of the state examination is now less binding on the student at the end of the upper secondary school. The important are the school examinations, which each school itself produces and organises, the annual grades, as well as practical or exploratory work. There is no reason to assume and fear that the seriousness of taking the state exams by setting out this 1 point will somehow disappear. We just don't want to put in front of students at the moment an additional barrier to completing their studies. But most higher education institutions, such as the University of Tartu, have established a procedure that 60 points have to be obtained for taking the state examination. Certainly, it is also an honor for schools to have their students pass the state exams well and prepare them properly, but it cannot be so important that everything else that goes on at school stays in the background and only the state exams are important. We all know this unobjectivity that has arisen when assessing Estonian schools and education on the basis of the ranking of schools formed on the basis of state exams. So what do you have to do to get this 1 point? It still depends on a specific task. But I will say once again that, judging from the studies, there was no improvement or deterioration in passing the exams as a result of whether one point or 20 points had to be obtained. In fact, the substantive assessment started from 20 points. 20 to a point, how do I say, everything was simply dragged through. Having examined the documents afterwards, I can also say that a threshold of 20 points was introduced in 2001 instead of the 1-point threshold and 50 points in 2010 instead of 20 points, but, unfortunately, no analysis can be found as to why it was good. In my opinion, these were emotional decisions, which did not in any way value upper secondary school education more in substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U465	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U466	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Culture! I'm complimenting you on such thorough answers! But here's my question. The Prime Minister has praised that the Riigikogu has done a good job; the Committee on Culture has done a very good job because more than 200 amendments have been discussed. You're a very senior person in this field. What changes do you personally most welcome?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U467	Thank you so much for your personal question. I cannot really answer that, because I am replying here on behalf of the Commission and as a Commission rapporteur. But I am very pleased about all the proposals that have been unanimously supported by the Commission. I mean, with my good committee, in rhythm and manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U468	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U469	Thank you. Good performer! To complete the upper secondary school, the student must write a student study or do some practical work at a satisfactory level. Instruction of research and practical work is again an additional work for the teacher. Often, one teacher has several jobs to supervise. Is this job supposed to fit into a 35-hour working week?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U470	Thank you. All tasks and remuneration for their performance shall be agreed between the headmaster and the teacher. The rule is, the teacher's job has to fit into 35 weeks. So there is no world revolution in comparison to the current arrangement. All the work will be done and people will be rewarded.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U471	Mart Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U472	Thank you. Dear waitress, The Minister has said that, as far as accreditation, seniority, teachers are now living in the 19th-century Prussian system. The direction is based on professional standards under the Professional Act. I was just looking at the Officials' website. It says that two professional standards have been developed, and you don't even know how many. But what's worse is that nobody knows who's going to give these grades to the teachers. If the teacher wants to apply for a degree, there is no way to know where he can do it. However, careers will also have an impact on teachers' wage arrangements. As chairman of the committee, can you explain to the large hall this transition from accreditation to professional stages?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U473	Thank you. These are professional levels, and this system is indeed being transferred. This transition and the new system have, of course, been prepared by the Chamber of Professionals together with the Ministry of Education and the representatives of the teachers. The Teachers' Association has been actively involved in this. What is important is that the grades already awarded are valid until the end of their term of office. Teachers shall be paid a minimum salary at least for their grade. It is not officially written anywhere, but it has been said repeatedly in the Commission that the most logical provider of qualifications is the Teachers' Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U474	Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U475	Thank you very much. Honourable answer! According to the draft Law on Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools, the Government of the Republic establishes a minimum rate of pay for teachers by regulation. Does anyone set a minimum rate of pay for support specialists, and who is it then?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U476	Thank you! Currently, there is a legal obligation that schools must have support specialists. The funding of support specialists is also the answer to your question of the task of local governments. I regret that the financial provisions and the regulation are not here today. In the draft decree of the Government of the Republic, read by the Committee on Culture, state support for the financing of support specialists is provided. But right now, it's a matter for local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U477	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U478	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. It is a concern that the country has no vision of the teacher training system as a whole. It can be said that no specific training strategy has been set up. Schools can choose from a rather limited and uncoordinated range of opportunities offered by various training companies and universities. I think that these issues have been discussed a lot in the Commission. Have they even talked about training? What are the new sections of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act that are now in the draft? What will this new law give us if we vote for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U479	Thank you very much. When discussing this draft, the Committee on Culture did not address the issue of teacher training, but, as you well know, we have talked about this in depth in the context of the debate on a crucial national issue when we made a number of proposals to the Government of the Republic to improve and prioritise teacher training. We will certainly have a hearing in the autumn (we have also talked about this with our secretariat) where the Ministry will report on where improvements in teacher preparation have been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U480	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U481	Thank you very much, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Culture! My question relates in some respects to the previous question. The new basic school and upper secondary school law abolishes the current grades of teachers: junior teacher, teacher, senior teacher and Methodist teacher. If a new system is introduced, what do you think should motivate the teacher to constantly improve himself? Have you discussed this in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U482	Thank you. We've been over this. We have discussed that it is certainly what develops a person's careers. It certainly develops a teacher if he wants to be as good a specialist as possible and as a teacher. It is precisely in this sense that, in view of the future, the system of professional levels is much more flexible and substantial, as it does not require all stages to be passed in succession. A young, good, talented and hardworking teacher can also apply for a higher degree than the next level. Certainly, the headmaster has an interest in having professional and highly qualified teachers working at his school. In addition to the normal development we have built on, there is also a provision in the draft that obliges the teacher to constantly develop and be familiar with the innovations taking place at school.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U483	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question concerns 1 January 2020. They say there must be a state gymnasium in every county. I think the state would be able to do that if there were as many counties as there are basic weather spots, or four. Why am I saying this? With the European Union's structural instruments, we will certainly be able to complete these schools by pouring all this money into concrete. But we also need to support these upper secondary schools. Have these issues been discussed during the procedure for the draft? There will still be a great burden on the budget if there is one state secondary school in all counties. In other areas of life, something has been built but cannot be maintained.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U484	Thank you very much. This issue has been dealt with by the Commission in such a way that, once the state has committed itself to establishing these upper secondary schools, there is certainly an obligation to support them. The specific cost of building and maintaining one school or another is certainly different and depends on the size of the school, whether it is a metropolitan upper secondary school for 500 pupils or less, a school with 200 pupils or even less. But the Government of the Republic is certainly aware of this obligation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U485	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U486	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We all received a letter from the Estonian Educational Workers' Association. I will read one point from here: 'We consider that the teacher's full-time education should be capped at the national level (EHL proposal 18 lessons per week, 16 lessons per week for composite classes) in order to avoid overwork of the teacher and a decline in the quality of the whole learning process. " The fact that the limit on the number of lessons is no longer set puts the teacher at risk of having to work harder for the same money. In the worst case, if, for example, up to now, the teacher taught at most 24 lessons, he must now give 30 hours, plus hours of preparation and repairs, etc. There's no way it can fit into a 35-hour general period. Studies show that now, if a teacher can give up to 24 hours, he will work more than 50 hours a week. What are you gonna get out of here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U487	Thank you! First of all, the ideological basis of this whole bill is to build trust in the schoolmaster and especially the principal. The tasks and organisation of work and the remuneration paid for the performance of the tasks of one or another teacher are, on the one hand, fixed, of course, with a national minimum, which must be guaranteed, but, on the other hand, it is still the subject of a contract of employment, as has already been said here many times today. It is hard to understand why we consider teachers to be stupid and weak, thinking that they cannot stand up for themselves, and why we consider the director to be a malicious person who wants to run his school badly and to squeeze him out of the teacher without saying what. But we do know that the average number of hours of auditory work is 21, which is fixed in the current government regulation. What will be the number in the next regulation? I hope not bigger. But it's important to say that all logic is different than what's been in place so far. Like all other employees, there will be a contract of employment, so it will be for teachers, and the agreement will be accompanied by normal negotiations. However, the Commission has now made such an amendment to the draft that teachers' salary arrangements must be negotiated with teachers by the Director, coordinated by the Council and submitted to the school manager for approval.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U488	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U489	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, As a former teacher, I would like to tell you that the exam is an event that assesses the student's knowledge. We'll come back to the math state exam. The student must be familiar with at least topics such as real numbers, equations and equations, trigonometry, vector level, line equation, functions, function limit and derivative, probability theory, descriptive statistics, and stereometry. Such assignments await him at the exam. And then maybe somebody gets 1 out of 100. Explain to me how one point can be considered to have passed the exam. So what does this student know?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U490	Thank you. I will tell you once again that according to the new regime and concept, the task and function of the state exam is different than it was so far. From this point of view, there is no point in pointing fingers at 1 point or 20 points, because there is no difference in substance here. I appreciate your in-depth knowledge of mathematics, they are certainly more profound than I have as a historian. But you have to understand that the exam is deemed to have been passed once 1% of the maximum result has been obtained.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U491	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U492	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm picking on some changes that I don't understand. One of the first changes foreseen in the draft law is that the term 'pedagog' is replaced by 'teacher'. What is its purpose in substance? There are some misunderstandings again. 'Pedagog' is a well-established concept in the Estonian legal space. What is the benefit of this change? I don't read it in the explanatory memorandum, to be honest. There is no direct explanation for this here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U493	Thank you very much. This is not a question that should be asked at second reading, because, as I recall, the Minister for Education and Science at first reading answered it thoroughly. But this amendment really replaces the definitions, for the sake of clarity, so that it is specifically stated that the school has a director, a lecturer and teachers. We added a support specialist. Perhaps this question was due to the fact that in its time there was a great struggle to bring support specialists into the concept of educator. This was also the subject of a debate in the Commission. We solve this problem by bringing out support specialists separately on the list. According to the author of the draft act, it is proposed that there should be greater clarity about who we are talking about when we talk about people working at school.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U494	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U495	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I have another parent's question. I'm trying to forget all my past experiences from "school grounds" and I'm just asking as a parent. When my parents went to school, I knew exactly what was coming for them. In September, my youngest son goes to school, and I am horrified to think that the school network and the school system have been reformed every year and a half in recent years. Can you put your hand on your heart and confirm that this is now a final option, or are we going to have some kind of reorganization and surprises? To be honest, 12 years is still a long time, and as a parent, I would like some kind of assurance that this is what we will live on in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U496	Thank you very much. Our whole lives are in great change and hardly even a school can escape them. When we talk about the principles, provisions and regulation of funding, it must be said that interests are completely contradictory. Southern Estonian municipalities complain and demand that if the number of students decreases and the school network must inevitably be tightened, it must all be properly funded. At the same time, the municipalities of Northern Estonia, around Tallinn, who say that money needs to be re-divided, where there are fewer children, do not have to give so much, but give them precisely in Northern Estonia, because they are drowning, they have so many children. This inevitably means that the school network will change, it cannot be opposed. There may still be changes and updates. Let's take the same state exams. The requirement in 1996 was the same 1 point, in 2001 a 20-point threshold was established for the wisdom of the Riigikogu, in 2010 again a 50-point threshold for our wisdom, and now we find that we have gone too far with this 50 points. We're all evolving.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U497	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U498	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! In a way, I will continue my first question. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe I don't understand everything. But I understand that every law is a normative act on the one hand and a social agreement on the other. We have a strategic draft before us, but we don't have a plan to implement it. We don't have a landscape where this filling must take place. We don't have a partner in the landscape with whom we have to do it together, and we don't know how much resources we need. Perhaps the Ministry has told the Commission that, but we do not know. A little more question: have you discussed how small upper secondary schools are in Ida-Virumaa, I mean...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U499	The time for asking small questions is also over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U500	Thank you. I'll start with that little question. We didn't talk about schools in Ida-Virumaa, and we didn't sort it out in regions and schools at all, because it's a slippery road, because everyone has their own lovely and expensive schools. We were based on principles. As far as financing is concerned, which is an important issue, I repeat: I regret that these provisions are not here today, but they are allowed to be brought to our desks in the autumn with a regulation on financing. As far as possible other implementing provisions or additional acts are concerned, I am indebted to the answer. I don't know that exactly today, for example, the new curriculum just came into force. I think there are a lot of problems. Is it wise to change it again? There's voices in and out. So there are a lot of questions and different answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U501	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U502	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Point 19 of the draft provides that a student who acquires general secondary education and who temporarily acquires the same level of education in a foreign institution shall not be excluded from the school list during the nominal period of study if he or she continues to study abroad as an extraterrestrial. Among the current upper secondary school students, it is very popular to study in an international student exchange program, for example within the YFU framework of one year in another country's upper secondary school. It is taught in local language and usually does not receive a school year because the systems do not match. Does this innovation mean that all of these good YFU students are excluded from their home school list because they do not continue to study as an extraterrestrial in their home school?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U503	Thank you. The principle is, however, that students who have so far been involved in and studied at school have the opportunity to continue their studies and are not erased from that information system. It is important to have a longer-term view. I am indebted to a specific answer, how or exactly what anyone can learn, because we did not deal with this in such detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U504	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U505	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We know that the teacher's work is tiring, stressful and, above all, underpaid. As a result, young people, especially bachelors, have little interest in teaching. How do you think this bill will increase the prestige of teaching by becoming a law? Does he lift at all, doesn't he go the other way?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U506	Thank you very much. We did not address this issue in the Commission, nor did the stakeholders raise it in the way you have now formulated your question. But I believe that, since school and the teaching profession must become more open and also more attractive to young people, and there is always a search for opportunities to raise teachers' pay and that is what is being done, it will certainly increase the interest of young men to work as teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U507	Thank you. Please, Jaak Allik, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U508	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Amendments 38 and 42 concern access to support services and support for student development. It can be read from the explanatory memorandum that general education schools will have the opportunity to order the services of specialized pedagogues (including logos) and psychologists for students through county counselling centres. However, because of the nature of this service, it is not appropriate to support the provision of services for social pedagogues through the counselling centre, as it is important that these services are linked to the community. Is it familiar, as the explanatory memorandum states, that municipalities can combine the tasks of social pedagogues with the work of social workers in municipalities? The responsibilities of social workers are already high. Has the Cities Union and the Association of Rural Governments really supported this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U509	Thank you. In particular, as regards this provision, I am indebted to the answer. I can't tell you by heart if they've just supported the unification of these tasks. Well, that depends on the municipality, that's not the absolute rule. There are municipalities where this is possible, especially in small municipalities. There are also, of course, large municipalities where this is not possible. It does not have to be an absolute rule.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U510	Thank you. Please, Mart Meri, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U511	Thank you. The main core of the draft is the organisation of the school network and, of course, the increase in teachers' salaries in a situation where there is not much money in the system. We have talked quite a lot in the Commission about regional specificities, attraction centres and the network of state secondary schools. How do you imagine Põlva County's future school arrangement? You can dream a little, but strictly within this bill. How does this bill shape the school arrangements of Põlva and Põlva counties over the next five, six or ten years?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U512	Mr Mart Meri! Why put me in this position? The Committee on Culture did not discuss this issue in preparation for the second reading of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U513	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U514	I'm a Commission waitress. I'm not here as a former Põlva governor or anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U515	We'll give Vladimir Velman another minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U516	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! More and more young teachers leave school, and young people do not want to go to school at all. That's a fact. This is due to a heavy workload and a very low salary. However, the new curriculum provides for electives (from social subjects such as 'Human and Justice' and 'Globalizing World') which require young professionals to go to school to work. How can the quality of school education be guaranteed when young teachers leave school?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U517	Thank you very much. In preparing for the second reading of the bill, the Committee on Culture did not focus so much on the successors of teachers or on any of the topics that I have already answered to Valeri Korb and my colleague Kalev Kallo. So I can't answer your question. In general, however, the educational policy direction of the draft is still to be able to open up more of the school and teacher professions, to enable young people to work at school and to learn from the good examples given to us by movements such as 'Back to School'. I'm sure these things have been taken into account here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U518	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U519	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Commission waitress. Like you, I am concerned that this draft will be very hasty and put at risk the sustainability of the education system. My question, however, concerns the student's domestic conditions when he is in school for most of the day, as well as the issue of school lunch. The Group of the Social Democratic Party proposed that the state, with budgetary resources, secure the school lunch in state, municipal and private schools for inpatient studies. Can you explain why the Commission did not support this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U520	Thank you. This hastily talk would be correct if we were to discuss funding now, which was really the last minute of preparation. But this issue has been taken out of here. This chapter did indeed give rise to differences of opinion, but most of the topics have been thoroughly, calmly and over a long period of time negotiated. The proposal for a school lunch as proposed by the opposition was not supported. We maintained that we are not currently changing this regulation and that what is in the PGS is correct. Why didn't we change the regulation? I do not recall the specific debate that has taken place around this issue, but it certainly played its part for fiscal reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U521	Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U522	Thank you. We have dealt with this issue in depth in the Commission. The topic of publishing textbooks, making their digital form available, copyright and competition enforcement has been discussed quite thoroughly. That is why this draft also included a provision that the Ministry of Education and Research must, in any case, conclude a contract with the publisher and resolve all these issues there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U523	Thank you, good manager. Dear colleague Urmas, I apologise in advance for asking about something that I should know myself. A publisher came to me today and said that this law would probably knock their textbook out of the market. That's because they want to work too well. They want to buy copyrights for certain illustrations. However, there are textbooks with a large number of illustrations. It turns out that only 60 or 80 euros are required for the right to publish the illustration on paper, for the electronic illustration that the law is going to require, but for the order of magnitude more. It'll knock down their competitive potential. I promised to answer him tomorrow. Here's the crutch that let Urmas answer me off, so I'll keep talking to the smart guy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U524	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U525	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U526	Thank you. Please, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U527	Thank you very much. Today's draft law on basic school and upper secondary school does not change the philosophical foundations of our education policy. I'll give you the same IB study, for example. The Commission discussed very thoroughly whether, in the case of study on the basis of a special curriculum, we can consider the International Bachelor's degree programme to be special in general education to be justified. It was discussed whether students who pay for studies and students who do not pay for their studies could at the same time study at Estonian school, two-way students, right, and how this curriculum would be available, for example, to those who cannot pay for it. The Commission considered that an in-depth analysis of this issue was needed. We found that this cannot be done in a hurry, and we took this issue out of here precisely because there was such a philosophical debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U528	Thank you very much. Today, several speakers in this Chamber have spoken of Finland as a model example of the education system. The principle of Finnish education is egalitarianism. Does the PGS bill that we are dealing with today lead Estonia towards an egalitarian system rather than, on the contrary, an elite one?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U529	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U530	Thank you. The Committee on Culture did not discuss this issue on a case-by-case basis. According to the draft, the State undertakes to establish at least one state secondary school in each county by 2020. This does not mean that state secondary schools may not be more than one in the county, they may also be among the upper secondary schools you mentioned. That may be so, the law allows it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U531	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It clearly appears that the primary school and upper secondary school law aims primarily at saving costs: schools are closed down, services are reduced, school facilities are reduced. The question arises as to whose interests the new SGS serves.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U532	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U533	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Point 27 of the draft law states that the relevant study, housing and education conditions must be ensured in the student home. What does this draft mean when it comes to cultivation conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U534	Thank you. There has been no revolution here, mostly the current arrangement continues. Students stay in a student home whose home is further away from school. The student home is an important and integral part of the school. In addition to providing knowledge and developing creativity, the two components of education must also develop social skills to enable students to get along nicely with each other. The best way to grow is to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U535	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U536	Thank you! The new Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act offers students more opportunities and services. Regional support centres are being invited, which, in a situation where the need for these services is certainly growing, are a very welcome and good step. Substantial resources are foreseen for this purpose from the budget of both the European Union and the Estonian state. This is just one example. So there's no way I can agree to a prior assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U537	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U538	Dear waitress, On the basis of the draft submitted to us, four types of municipalities develop when financing upper secondary school education. Firstly, municipalities which have state secondary schools and therefore do not have a financial obligation regarding upper secondary school education. Secondly, county towns that expect to receive state secondary school within six years. Thirdly, small towns and rural municipalities with municipal upper secondary school, the so-called full cycle school. Some of the county towns are also stubbornly stuck with this option. Fourthly, municipalities which do not provide upper secondary school education and from which students must be sent either free of charge to state secondary school or with a contribution to municipal upper secondary school. There will be unfair competition with the aim of financialally strangling municipal secondary schools outside Tallinn, Tartu, Narva and Pärnu. Can you formulate the Commission's position on what you think of this obvious contradiction in terms of equal treatment?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U539	Thank you! Indeed, the Commission discussed the Socialist Amendment, according to which municipalities should also participate in the financing of state-run upper secondary schools. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U540	Helmen Hunter.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U541	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Chairman of the Committee on Culture, In education and medicine, many consider themselves to be experts, but I do not know these subjects. That is why I mediate the concerns and position of Reemo Voltri, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Federation of Educational Workers: 'We strongly oppose the abolition of the separate remuneration for the work of the head of the class. The amendments to the PGS are intended to abolish a separate fee for the performance of the duties of the class manager. This step is dangerous, given the importance of the role of class manager in the social development of our young people, support for learning, etc. ' What is your position? Do you think that this concern is unfounded in the light of this law, at least in the light of the text of this amended draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U542	Thank you! The point of the bill is that classleading must fit into the teacher's 35 hours of work. Indeed, the exercise of normal regular duties can no longer be agreed at an additional cost. This is reflected in the logic of the Employment Contracts Act, according to which an agreement must be made that all work is done within the week's working hours. The payment of the premium can really only be considered for exceptional overtime work. Of course, this work will be rewarded exceptionally. For the sake of accuracy, it has to be said that class management is also very poorly regulated in the current law, although there is currently a fixed separate fee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U543	Dear waitress, I wanted to ask a new question, but unfortunately I have to come back to the previous question because I did not get an answer to that question. I even know that the Commission did not support the Socialist proposal. I asked if you could formulate the Commission's position on this unfair competition between municipalities (I used the term used here by Jüri Võigemest) which arises in the provision of upper secondary school education. Does the Commission see a problem here and want to solve it? I put the same question in Question Time to the Minister for Education, who clearly stated that he did not see the problem and therefore there is no need to solve it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U544	Thank you. Yeah, we discussed it, as you know, on many occasions. This proposal, which you have just referred to and which I said in reply to the previous question, was not supported. The Commission also expressed the view that the state should cooperate with the municipalities and take their opinion into account. If regional school network development plans have been agreed, these documents are so important that the state should rely on them. After all, this issue is directly concerned with funding. These chapters are currently out of here, but I believe that we can come back to this issue in the autumn when we start discussing the issue of funding in greater depth.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U545	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U546	Thank you, good manager. Mr President of the Commission. My first question is not on the substance of the draft, but rather on the form in which it is dealt with. Less than ten years ago, when I offered you to be Põlva County Elder, I was sure that you were a principled, honest and law-abiding person. I have no doubt today that you are such a person, but the procedure for this draft has raised many questions in me. This is precisely because the members of the Riigikogu only received the draft yesterday and at the beginning of the committee meeting you expected the positions of the Ministry. Tell me, please, is this a good lawmaking practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U547	Thank you very much for the good words and the question. It doesn't make me happy to be in such a hurry in the final phase of the procedure. I only agreed to this because, on very important and large issues, the Commission had come close to either consensus or consensus, or the differences were clearly formulated, so that they were known to all the members of the Commission and, I think, to the political groups as well. The main contested provision, the financing provision, was withdrawn together with the draft implementing act. The most confusing part of the draft was therefore withdrawn and the cause of the dispute disappeared. In this plan, nothing has been brought into this Chamber that would have been confusing in the Commission. This slightly alleviates the situation, but of course it would have been better if the documents could have been submitted earlier. The Bureau gave us an extension, but I admit that the sooner the documents had been submitted, the better it would have been. But thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U548	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U549	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! You answered the question about the class-leading fee that the teacher and the director are negotiating and maybe you'll be able to get an extra fee for the class-leading, but if the teacher doesn't show up convincingly, that might not be the case. Isn't class management a pedagogical job anymore, and the teacher should do it free of charge if he's the head of a class? It seems that because of this law, teachers will no longer have any interest in leading the class. Or have I misunderstood?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U550	Thank you. Classleading is, of course, as you said, pedagogical work and certainly quite a challenge. But there's nothing extraordinary about that. This is not an extraordinary task that should be paid for overtime. All the work the teacher does must fit into his 35 hours of work. It is logical that if a teacher performs the duties of a class manager, he will have less lessons, but if he does not have the role of a class manager, then he will have more classes. This is a matter of flexible working arrangements. Whether each teacher has to be a class manager, how much a teacher has to teach one lesson or another, and how to organise a job, this is all a matter of normal school work organisation, and I do not think it should be precisely set out in Parliament. There are countries in the world where schools have no classroom leaders at all. We also have very different schools, where the duties of class managers are different. We do not have such a national standard that class management means this, second or third.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U551	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U552	Thank you. Good performer! I do think that a class manager should still pay for his work, because it motivates him to do it better. Some teachers do this job with a lot of soul. But my question is based on a recent statement by Minister Aaviksoo and his conviction. He said that a good teacher, a Methodist, would certainly be paid better than others, regardless of the paragraphs, because he was just better than the others. Where should schools receive additional resources to pay higher salaries for methodological teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U553	Thank you. First of all, I do not agree with the fact that only a few teachers do class management with a soul. I think most people do it that way, and maybe everyone does it, not just a few. But when it comes to the remuneration of teachers and the allocation of money for them, good teachers have so far been paid and will be paid in the future. The financing system will not change. The fact that the funding paragraph is now withdrawn and the work on the financing regulation continues does not mean that there is no system or payment arrangements. All the more so since all grades are valid until the end of the prescribed period. But this will be the case in the future, too, in the draft government regulation, and the members of the Committee on Culture will probably know more about it, that the Director will have 20% additional resources designed precisely to motivate good teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U554	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U555	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I'm concerned about a subject you covered. The economic landscape, where, let's say, all these changes are going to happen, has somehow been removed from this bill. For example, during the previous composition of the Riigikogu, the Committee on Culture dealt with such a draft for a year and a half and the economic scheme was included, the amount of resources needed, the overall economic landscape. There were almost all draft legislative acts, but right now we have to wait for the autumn, because as the Minister replied today at lunch, the economic scheme will come in autumn and something else. Why did the Commission go this way instead of asking for all the papers at the same time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U556	Of course, my good colleague, I too would be very pleased if we had today a comprehensive draft with a financing chapter and an implementing act, i.e. a regulation. Of course it would be good. Unfortunately, that was not the case. The Ministry of Education and Research has decided to present us with a new draft on funding in the autumn and has promised not to change the government's regulation in the meantime. We know that. However, the Commission considered that this draft (this is not the whole text of the law, this is the draft law amending the law) contained enough subjects for schools to deal with in the law even before the beginning of the new academic year. Basically, we are talking about state examinations, certainly additional school holidays and the need for clarity regarding school areas. Of course, there are all kinds of opinions, but in the Commission the opinion remained that it is important to bring these issues (and they are unanimous) here and present a draft for adoption as a law. I am, of course, of the opinion that we should talk more about the content of education, but this is still basically the subject of the curriculum.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U557	Ladies and gentlemen, Well, you guys like to repeat your song, but the song you're repeating may have gotten you wrong. That is why I say that our goal is to make sure that all students have access to basic school close to home. The problem now is that upper secondary schools have different levels. Students may leave some areas after primary school to receive high-quality academic upper secondary school education at some of the major centres. The direction of the Ministry of Education and Research to have at least one pure academic gymnasium in each county, where the state takes responsibility for quality, still says that they want to reduce these differences rather than increase them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U558	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U559	Thank you. I noticed that you said that the three-way requirement has just survived its time. Very many teachers have worked hard and prepared, but they now realize that they have done useless work. I also noticed that the law that is to be adopted tomorrow will change a lot for students. The 11th grade students have so far known that they should answer at least half of the questions correctly when taking the State Exam next year, but now the requirement of 1 out of 100 is set. When do you think we should start reviewing the requirements of the state exams again? When will this requirement in law today survive its time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U560	Thank you. Good waitress! I have been seriously disturbed by the position of the Minister of Education and Research on municipalities throughout the very long procedure of the PGS. Even today, just before he came to this hall, he was able to send out a press release stating that in the first four months, every teacher has lost an average of 234 euros, which should have reached the teacher's hand, but bad local governments have wasted it somewhere else. Most municipalities are likely to have used this money to provide support and support services in schools. As the head of your committee, how do you feel about the Minister's statements, just as the aim of this bill is to raise the pay of teachers, but that it has not yet risen is the responsibility of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U561	Thank you. Indeed, we have discussed in the Committee on Culture how local governments have or have not used education support in the process of the draft. We've got an overview of it. As the leader of the Commission, I dare not say, one-to-one and black in white, that local governments have put this money somewhere else. When discussing the possible funding of education with the officials of the Ministry of Finance, it became clear that the money given for education support has still been put into education by municipalities, including using it to pay salaries. As there is doubt about the local authorities, the proposal for the allocation of teachers' salaries had to be set out in a targeted way. This money should go only for this and local governments are required to report on the use of wage money. It's off now, but in the autumn, when the bill comes here, we'll open it again. However, on the basis of the Commission's discussions and the information provided to the Commission by both the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Finance (including contacts with local governments), I would not be so afraid to express in one word.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U562	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U563	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Now that the jacket is cut off from the button and part of the draft has been pushed into autumn, it has already been said that there are quite a few things left that could be considered substantive. If this bill is adopted as a law as it is before us today, how can we assess the success and progressivity of this law? What is the biggest positive change that you expect specifically from the remaining part of the draft? Is it linked to higher pay for teachers, improved regional access to education, quality of education, the learning environment or the working conditions of teachers? What is the focus that, above all, should change when this bill becomes a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U564	Thank you. This bill will certainly enable our school landscape to maintain different types of school. It also carries the opportunity to improve access to high-quality regional academic upper secondary school education, as the state will set up at least one academic upper secondary school in each county by 2020. It is certainly important that the organisation of the provision of support services has been modified in accordance with the requirements of time and that regional support centres are established. It is also important that the system of state examinations is reviewed and some corrections are made. Changes relating to school holidays are certainly important. The fundamental step, which has found different understanding, is certainly the reorganisation of the teaching profession, including the creation of preconditions for the implementation of the qualification system, the attempt to open up schools to young talented teachers and to motivate them to develop. So these are the topics here. They are certainly contentious because each amendment raises disputes, but despite delaying the discussion of the funding issue, the draft has made up-to-date changes in several areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U565	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U566	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Let's be honest, this law doesn't really clean up the school network. When this law is applied, state secondary schools and municipal secondary schools, i.e. schools with sufficient resources, and schools with insufficient resources, are created. I recently met with the Finnish Minister of Education, Krista Kiuru. In his opinion, Finland's most difficult task is how to harmonise the level of schools so as not to create schools that fall behind their level. At the same time, every child is viewed as an individual who can become president or the creator of the next Nokia. In Finland, there is a fight to ensure that all children have equal opportunities to receive a good education. I have the impression that Estonia, under the leadership of the current coalition, has chosen a completely different path. Equal opportunities have disappeared, or children will be punished if they are not born in the 'right' region. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U567	Thank you. I'm not going to repeat everything I've said here about the teacher's duties, how these contracts come about, who negotiates, etc. I repeat, you can review this from the current basic school and upper secondary school law, that classroom management is still poorly regulated in the law and in many ways class management has taken place and takes place in a tradition-based manner. This is a subject negotiated several times in the Commission. We have no reason to believe that there will be no further recognition of the need for leadership. The question is simply that the headmaster must agree with those teachers who take the lead in the classroom that their other duties are smaller and all duties must fit into the 35-hour working week. That's the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U568	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U569	Thank you. I have a serious problem. I think that one thing in which all political parties, educators and municipalities can agree is that the quality of education, regardless of where it is given in the corner of Estonia and how many children are taught, should be the same. Salaries play a very important role in achieving this. Now, however, there is one minimum wage that, in my opinion, is totally counterproductive to this idea. If the minister had previously taken the floor of some psychic on the parish page, I would understand why he thinks that good teachers will still get a good salary in the future, because he is a person with a scientific background, then I do not understand what he is saying at all. On what basis can you confidently say that in the future, good teachers will continue to receive good wages? No less than the lower limit may be paid.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U570	Yes, no less than the minimum rate must indeed be paid. This minimum rate has risen with the help of the Estonian taxpayer and is currently 715 euros per month. The Minister has assured us that there is certainly a plan to continue to increase this minimum rate, as the possibilities allow. Teachers' pay is certainly a priority for the Minister and the Ministry. One important logical feature of this draft is that the competence of the head of school in the management of the school increases. I'm sure every school looks like its principal. Of course, the school manager is responsible for getting a good headmaster for the school, which is even more important in this situation. But I am convinced that any director who is interested in the school's well-being hires good teachers and pays them a motivating salary. There are budgetary resources for this, and the incentive buffer is precisely that 20%. Jaak Allik asked the Commission several times, where the 20% is, to show him where the 20% is written, on the basis of which teachers are motivated and well paid to good teachers. This is currently stated, for example, in the same draft government regulation that was on the table in the Commission when we were discussing funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U571	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U572	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, It is already known today that the Ministry of Education and Research does not have enough money, as shown by the teacher's EUR 715 monthly salary, which is actually ridiculous. We add that 2% of the funding for continuing training for teachers comes from the European Union's Structural Funds and this law also includes the remuneration of support specialists from the European Union's Structural Funds. So the Estonian state does not have enough money for teachers. At the same time, the Ministry of Education and Research is increasing its spending, and it does not know how much it is actually going to be for state secondary schools. When building state secondary schools, 15% of the cost of construction must be paid by the state; in addition, maintaining the school is a purely national matter. How can a bill be passed as a law if there are no financial records?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U573	Thank you. The issue of funding comes before Parliament in the autumn, as the Minister said many times today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U574	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U575	Thank you very much. Tell me, by putting your hand on the heart, do you personally, Urmas Klaas, really like this draft law amending the law on basic school and upper secondary school. What would you say if you sum up with one sentence to send the main message of this law to an Estonian teacher, such as teacher Lauri, either by praising the law or, on the contrary, by comforting the teacher?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U576	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that I am not personally speaking here on my own behalf, but represent the discussions that took place in the Committee on Culture and in the Committee on Culture. But as one message to the teachers, we can certainly say that with this draft we are moving step by step towards a better pay for the teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U577	Please, Kalvi Tough, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U578	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear colleague Urmas, Chairman of the Committee on Culture! On the issue of class management, you replied that it was very important to negotiate and find consensus, and that there was dialogue and agreements between the Director and the teacher. I think it is also very important to negotiate this draft law and to take account of the views of all parties. When we look at who put forward their proposals, we see that there were a lot of proposals up to the Võru county logo beets section. Since so many amendments were tabled and a few other proposals were received on our tables a few hours ago, good legislative practice would require and it would make sense if we voted them through today and then took some time off, so that we would interrupt the second reading of the draft, review the amendments, renegotiate the text with interest groups and then come back to this Chamber with this draft. Why did the Commission not go this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U579	Thank you very much. I'm taking a three-minute management break because it's midnight approaching and our computer system needs to be reactivated. We'll proceed at 00.01.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U580	Thank you. It is really right that the prices of the services of this foundation or, let's say more precisely, of these support services are set by the Ministry of Education and Research. Prices must be cost-oriented and must cover justified service costs. The logic is that schools need more or less to purchase these services. There are small schools that do not make sense to have such a top specialist on the payroll; they are better placed to buy these services instead. You asked about the situation where these services are not purchased. Are these centers going bankrupt? There may also be a situation where the financial performance of the centres is not good enough. Then it is up to the Ministry of Education and Research or the state to decide whether it will reduce membership or how it will behave in this situation. I believe these centers are operating according to exactly the same rules as any other normal center. Even now there are advisory committees for students with special needs in the counties, there are career counselling centres that do not do the same job, but they do exist. I believe that there is some experience for the approval of these formations, but it is clear that circumstances can and must also change in the formations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U581	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U582	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague, Chairman of the Committee on Culture! The subject of my question is class management. I'll ask you from the example. Suppose there are two teachers at school, one teacher has a load of 1.0, the other teacher has a load of 0.6. A teacher with a load of 1.0 will have to direct the class, but during the year it turns out that he has a lot of work to do in consulting and does not have much time to do in the course of his working hours. At the same time, this teacher, who has a load of 0.6, is doing his classwork carefully and maybe the school will pay him a little extra for it. Why, then, may children whose teacher is not able to do much of the class management work have fewer tours? Why can a class manager deal less with them? I am not satisfied with the reply that this was not quite discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U583	Thank you for your question. This is an abnormal situation. I believe that this problem can be resolved if teachers have employment contracts and all the terms and duties of the contract have been properly negotiated and fixed with the head of school. Both parties will then be able to present their views and agree on everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U584	Please, Jaan Apple Tree, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U585	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Good Urmas Glass! My second question is substantive. I think that the Commission also discussed the issues that teachers have raised in recent days, the concerns they have expressed. For example, if general working time regulation is abolished, the burden on teachers may increase further. Teachers are reluctant to lose their class-leading fees and to decouple the teacher's professional development from the salary they receive. How can you explain all this to the teachers from the remote so that their fears disappear, make it clear that it is not a problem if they think it is? How do you do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U586	Thank you. The explanatory memorandum and the additional material that existed at the time of the decision in the Committee on Culture must be taken. It is clear that any change creates opposition and different perceptions. The Ministry of Education and Research has generally worked very well with the Commission. At the request of or on the proposal of the Commission, I do not want to say that the Ministry has formulated a great many new proposals at the request of the Commission. We have changed the bill very thoroughly in many places. Perhaps, in the light of this work, the Ministry has little time to introduce the new system and explain to schools and perhaps to trade unions. I am not going to talk about the teaching profession as a whole for a long time, and we have wanted to talk about what is within the 35-hour working week and what is not, to create negotiating places and to create a dialogue between the director and the teacher so that they can talk about how working conditions will develop. We have made such a change here, I repeat, that the principles of wage management are negotiated with teachers, they have to go through the collection of care and have to be presented to the schoolkeeper for approval. That's one thing. The second thing is that if the system of grades is in place, if there is also an invitation and the corresponding regulations are in place, it will certainly bring clarity. It has to be admitted that all of this has raised questions and fears, because people can't read everything about me in white right now. I'll admit it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U587	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U588	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I'm coming back to the seniors. We are talking now that the remuneration of a class manager is the result of negotiations between the teacher and the director. But what kind of law or normative act does it even say that there is a classleading at school as such? Is assigning or setting a class management function an internal matter of the school? Is it true that if the school doesn't want to hire class managers as such, there aren't any class managers at the school?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U589	Thank you. I repeat my answer to three courses of study. According to my memory, the motion to withdraw this claim was unanimous. The variety of choices can and must be ensured by more substantial means. The question is not that at any cost it should be possible to report that there are three courses of study in school. The aim cannot be to implement any kind of plan, but to develop the substance and raise the level of school. Regarding state examinations, we have to say that the new one is often a forgotten old one. We are now returning to a very large part of the system that was introduced in 1996.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U590	Thank you! The Commission discussed and voted on the amendments for several months. In the meantime, we obtained further information, met stakeholders and reached the 92 amendments that have now been tabled for you. Cooperation with stakeholders has been very close. I repeat, there was a major dispute over funding. The local government associations, the association of rural municipalities and the urban union, were not in agreement with the changes. The Commission considered it important to wait, and a good proposal from the government had to be taken out of the draft. But it is clear that we cannot fully take into account the proposals made by each of the stakeholders, because it is still necessary to sift out a possible joint section. Inevitably, someone loses something and someone wins something, but there's no one who's been run over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U591	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U592	Thank you. Good waitress! My question relates to the previous question. Although, according to the Commission, no one has been run over, I at least have some reason to feel that the parties concerned are not satisfied with their involvement. Perhaps you can name an important organisation in this process that is very pleased with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U593	Thank you very much. The Committee on Culture did not carry out a study or send questionnaires to stakeholders, which they are satisfied with and which they do not. Satisfaction was not measured on a one-ball or ten-ball scale. Here are proposals that satisfy the Teacher Union, but may be reluctant to the Alliance of Educational Workers. Here are some proposals that please the school leaders' association, but perhaps some teachers' representative organisations do not like it. The regional organisation of the provision of support specialist services is certainly a major step forward, which is, of course, to the liking of special needs teachers. That's the way life is!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U594	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U595	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I read this paragraph in the explanatory memorandum: 'The draft does not intend to eliminate the possibility of acquiring other educational resources related to the school curriculum for resources beyond the teaching literature. Whether or not these funds are sufficient, the Ministry replied that schools are in different situations here. ' What is the real situation? I get the impression that schools are in a very unequal situation because of this bill. Don't you think this bill will create an additional educational stratification?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U596	Thank you. I do not think that there is any way of favouring or pushing the draft to stratify in this sense. Obviously, this paragraph of the explanatory statement that you have just read is not the most successful. It is important to stress that the Ministry of Education and Research, on a proposal from the Committee on Culture, drafted an amendment authorising the Minister to establish a minimum list of teaching literature, but it is not mandatory for schools to choose teaching literature. Somehow you've got the wrong impression. This register, which will be present at the Ministry of Education and Research, is under no circumstances mandatory for schools. Perhaps the wrong view has arisen that everything on the register is mandatory for schools, and the question arises as to how all schools can get what they say. That's not the point. This register does not oblige anyone, but it is an information set where all the educational material is available and on which basis you can choose what you can and cannot afford. On the subject of teaching literature, maybe a little overstretched and overstretched. Teachers and schools will continue to be free to choose teaching literature; they will decide for themselves which teaching literature they use, where they obtain it, and how much they use it. It's not the textbook, it's the teacher. The freedom to use teaching literature continues. The point of the register, I repeat, is in no way to regulate or provide for any mandatory list of teaching literature that schools can or cannot buy, but is simply to provide teaching literature. It's a register with such illustrative meaning.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U597	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U598	Thank you, Madam President. I'm coming to the foundation set up at county level. I am unclear about the funding of this foundation. The bill states that the prices of services must be cost-oriented, and the director may order the service of support specialists from the foundation. The following point states that the scope of the provision of the service by the State is established by the Minister of Education and Research. As I understand it, the client is still a school and the school pays. But if the schools do not order these services, what are the means by which this foundation is maintained? State resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U599	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U600	Let's get back to the hearing. Question from Rannar Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U601	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. I read a verbatim report of the February session to refresh my memory when the Minister of Education attended this speech chair at first reading of the PGS. There was such an interesting point that the Minister of Education was asked what could be done to develop three courses of study from the requirement for upper secondary schools. The Minister said that he did not participate in the work during the previous Riigikogu when such a wise decision was made, and he does not know what happened in the heads of the people who made this regulation. You participated in this work three years ago, you voted in favour of it with your party and members of the IRL in 2010. Now this requirement is starting to disappear. What, then, has happened in three years that this requirement for three courses of study, adopted three years ago in major disputes, has survived its time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U602	Thank you! We discussed this subject quite thoroughly. As interesting as it may be, Epp Rebane, a very long memory and career adviser at the Ministry of Education and Research, said that, if the Commission wanted to, he would seek out the Ministry's proposals at the time or some earlier proposal, which provided that it would be right if, administratively, perhaps even artificially, three courses of study were not required. The task of upper secondary schools is to provide students with sufficient electives and they have certainly increased their choice. For example, I can talk about Põlva because this example was mentioned in the Commission. There are not three courses of study required by law, but five courses in Põlva Common High School. It is a substantial development, schools themselves have understood its necessity and are trying to provide their students with sufficient opportunities. Such an artificially set requirement for three courses of study, however, has survived its time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U603	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U604	Thank you, good manager. Dear colleague Urmas! School leaders are worried, I am worried, by the way, that we still had to split the law. It is such a fine comparison that when we have been talking so far that the law is like an education cart with a good Tori stallion in front of it and behind it is a loaded cart, we are now only designing a load to be carried, but before autumn we do not know for sure whether a goat, a Tori stallion or an elephant will come in front of it. It has also been expressed that all these financial promises, even 20% etc, are suddenly uncertain. Another aspect. In Tallinn and even in Tartu, you can pay more than these limits. If the scheme is uncertain, if you do not know who finances how much, doesn't that mean going backwards? That was the whole question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U605	Thank you. As long as there is no new funding regime, the current regime will be in place with the current Regulation. It works, good or bad, but it works. In any case, I am convinced, but this opinion also sounded in the Commission; it is not just my personal opinion, that there should be an existing and operational procedure rather than a new one without debate and agreement, the impact analysis of which has not been carried out. That was one half of the answer. On the other hand, teachers' salaries vary from school to region.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U606	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U607	Chairman of the Committee on Culture! Basically, it's no secret that we have a lot of schools that have a question of whether to be or not to be. Do you have any idea whether teachers working in these schools could receive more than the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U608	Thank you. Our teachers' salary and what this salary is in different schools were not discussed very thoroughly, because the regulation of funding and the regulation of the government, where these bases will be written, are just coming before us. It is quite clear, however, that the pay of teachers is certainly very different from that of teachers under unorganized school network conditions. The longer we stretch our decisions, the bigger these differences will get.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U609	Thank you. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U610	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, good co-worker! I respect you very much, and I think you're going to respond very constructively. When I think about education policy, I must say that we have been talking in this Chamber for three years that there must be three courses of study, because it is very good for Estonian education. Now let's say it doesn't have to be. At one point we are saying that the upper secondary school can be continued if there are 240 or 250 students, the next we will take this limit off. Similarly, it could be pointed out what the result of the state exam must be in order to receive secondary education. Have you not thought that the Estonian faculty and Estonian schools actually expect the chairman of the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Culture to be sure that these changes will eventually end so that they can go on stablely? Do you think this bill will help stability, or will it take it down?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U611	Thank you very much. Where do you think you're gonna start answering now? First of all, I believe that if life changes and some kind of regulation gets in the way of time or is no longer relevant, it is right to deal with it and change it. The abolition of the requirement for three courses of study has perhaps been opposed by those municipalities and schools who have found that they have worked hard and made these three courses of study, but now it is said that this is no longer necessary. Come on, we don't do study directions or offer electives because of a tick, so that somebody can cross out whether or not these courses and options exist. We are still doing this because these choices are real. I'll give you the same example again. If the law requires three courses of study, they can be done very easily, but more is done, in substance. Schools have been very good. Consequently, I would not be overdramatic, my good colleague Jüri. I don't think there's a lot of turbulence in here. To congratulate the Committee on Culture, the Committee on Culture did not take account of and vote on a number of proposals from the initiator of the draft. We found that there would be too much haste or that changes would become too tight if we were to reform the regulation of school areas again. We just made them, and now we're gonna change again! The Commission did not accept this and the current regulation will remain in force. We consulted with the local governments. The assistant mayors of Tallinn and Tartu were at the table. We thought it wasn't a good plan. The IB-Learning regulation already mentioned and other things were not supported, even though the government wanted to make these changes and sent us such a draft. We made changes when we found that life required it. Your good colleague, Mailis, was one of the spokespersons to give schools the opportunity to take extra school holidays because there is a need for this. Schools are doing a little bit of skittering right now. They're taking a school break under some other name. If life demands, we change it. Well, that's the kind of weighing all the time, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U612	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Culture! First of all, I would like to thank you both for the months of substantial and thorough work done by the Commission and for the work that has been done here today. My question is, in a personal sense, maybe a little nostalgic, but I think it's very topical in general. In fact, the Riigikogu has imposed the law on local governments to establish their own budget strategy, as the state must do. The local governments are bravely trying to do so by obeying the law. But how should they act when planning a budget strategy when financing comprehensive school and upper secondary school is confusing until at least autumn?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U613	Thank you. This is not confusing, because the current system will remain in force. The current wording of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the regulation of the Government of the Republic on the basis of which the work is carried out will remain in force and everything foreseen there will continue to apply as so far. But if we go back to the issue of funding in the Commission, we will pay attention to this very important aspect to which you have referred.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U614	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U615	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, According to the new Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the principal's responsibilities are very high. The Director is responsible for the preparation and implementation of the school development plan, establishes the school's curriculum, manages the school's budget, concludes employment contracts with teachers, etc. Don't you think that compared to the current PGS, the new law places too many obligations on the director?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U616	Thank you. A line through the law is giving the Director authority. The director must be the head of the school in the real sense of the word. At the same time, he does not make his decisions solely, but has a responsibility to coordinate certain matters with the schoolmaster, teachers, or the caretaker. I'm sure they'll all support the director in his work, and he'll be supported by the study council. So I don't think the headmaster is very overwhelmed. In general, school leaders are pleased with the increase in their role, at least the association of school leaders has said so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U617	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U618	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise if you have already spoken about this matter here. I didn't follow that debate from the beginning. I have a question about free school food. One amendment provides, and I think that stakeholders have also proposed that free school food be available to all 1. Class 1 students. What was the debate in the Commission on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U619	Thank you. We talked about this, but we did not hold a very big debate because other educational issues were under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U620	Thank you. Please, George Ratas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U621	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good chairman of the committee! Let me ask you a question for the future. What year do you think the Riigikogu could decide that the entire obligation to complete secondary education will go entirely to the state and we will no longer talk about municipal secondary schools? In the light of the draft that we are dealing with here today, too, it is clear that the direction is taken for upper secondary school to move to state level. When do you think this final movement will take place in 2015, 2016, 2018 or any other year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U622	Thank you. There was no mention of a year in the Commission, but the thought of our discussion was that perhaps in the future it would not be excluded that the state would assume all the responsibility for upper secondary school education. However, there is currently a movement according to this bill, so that in 2020, there will be at least one purely academic upper secondary school in each county, which the state will maintain and where the state will take full responsibility for quality. This is the current movement, but no one dared or wanted to say the year. We didn't discuss it in that key.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U623	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U624	Thank you. Dear waitress, My question concerns schools with Russian language of instruction. According to the draft, the basic school and upper secondary school are divided into separate institutions. I am not asking about the future of magymnasiums, but I am interested in the future of schools in those cities where there are now two full-cycle upper secondary schools, one in Russian and one in Estonian. Consider, for example, Stone Oil or Blackwater. Separating comprehensive school and upper secondary school funding leads to the closure of the Russian-language upper secondary school as the most logical educational economic solution. Russian-language children should therefore attend Estonian upper secondary school after ninth grade. You could not argue with this in itself, but if we look at the level of teaching the Estonian language in Russian comprehensive school, it raises questions. Have you discussed in the Committee on Culture what kind of support those children who have to go to the Estonian-language gymnasium after the draft has entered into force and how can we help them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U625	Thank you. You're making very far-reaching conclusions. Firstly, there have indeed been ideas in society, and perhaps some education politicians have also said that in any case basic school should be separated from upper secondary school. This separation is not required by the current draft. The accounting separation between basic school and upper secondary school budgets would have been the subject of financing, § 82, but since it has been withdrawn, this issue has also fallen away at the moment. There has been no reason to discuss this issue in such a way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U626	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U627	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, That's the question again. We have spent several hours here discussing the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school. Several MPs have been following this debate constantly in this Chamber, and there have also been those who have listened to the broadcast. The opposition has made dozens and dozens of proposals, but the Commission has all voted them down. I have a very clear and simple question for you. There's a lot of people waiting for an answer who'll watch you perform on your computer network. What are three clear reasons why we should press the green button and support this draft into law? What will become better in Estonian society? Say it without a twist.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U628	I didn't spin around answering Sven Mikser either. I don't think I have to repeat my answer to Sven Mikser, dear Rainer Vakra. If you were in the hall, you would have heard what I said in that answer. As far as the opposition's proposals are concerned, they have always been taken with great respect in the Committee on Culture. When processing other draft laws or the draft we are discussing today, a number of proposals have been fully, essentially or partially taken into account. There is nothing to blame for the Commission here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U629	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U630	Thank you. As I understand from the draft, the existing so-called plumbing schools may continue to act as they have so far since the entry into force of this law, so that the progymnasium and the secondary school are together. At the same time, it is no longer possible to create new schools like this if I understand correctly. This reminds me of a situation where Christianity is one of the so-called 'tolerated' religions in the Islamic world, and in many Islamic countries the law therefore allows existing churches to operate, but they must not build new ones. Where is the logical basis for this principle, and why did the Commission decide to go this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U631	Thank you. This provision existed in this form in the draft originally submitted by the Government and was not amended by the Commission, although this was the subject of a debate. Indeed, when the law comes into force, it will not be possible to create new full cycle schools, or plumbing schools, as you said. All existing ones are working happily, and no one is endangering their work in the sense of this law. There has been a clear desire by the Minister of Education and Research that the direction could be to separate primary school and upper secondary school, to have a strong primary school and a strong upper secondary school. These are different schools with different tasks, which require different types of teachers, etc. In order for this direction to be clear, new full cycle schools, or integrated tubes, should no longer be created. This issue has been slightly softened in connection with the withdrawal of the same funding issue. We can certainly lead development in one direction or the other through funding, and also through this regulation. However, I repeat that this educational policy direction just apart from a strong primary school and a strong upper secondary school should be clearly fixed. I express my personal opinion that this may be the case, but it certainly doesn't have to be the case. However, this provision is now supported by the Commission in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U632	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U633	Thank you. I would have liked to have opened a new issue with my last question, but unfortunately I have to return to the previous question. You replied that the longer financial planning of local authorities, which is an obligation imposed on them by the State, is not at all difficult at the moment, as a result of the continuation of the current financing scheme. However, we all know in this Chamber that the withdrawal of § 82 from the bill does not mean that there is no return to it. The plan is to return to it in the fall. How should the local government carry out the task given by the state now? How can he, in essence, ensure that he can manage his finances? Have local authorities been involved since we decided to withdraw § 82 from the bill, and what is their opinion on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U634	Thank you very much. Of course, all school managers are interested in having as much confidence as possible in schooling, budgeting and making all such decisions. I agree with you on that. I told you there was nothing broken, because the current baselines are still valid and decisions can be made according to them. Rather, it has been the desire of school keepers to have the legislator and government put things in place more precisely and to give confidence in funding as much as it is possible to record in the law without becoming too rigid and in the way of life. Then there would be confidence. They want the decree of the Government of the Republic not to change every year and not all negotiations between local governments and the state will, figuratively speaking, start from scratch. I think that if this issue of funding is discussed and we find a reasonable balance between the law and the regulation, so that the law gives confidence to school holders, but it does not become too rigid, and very often the regulation is not amended, it is certainly a step forward. I tell you, and you can tell the local governments that we work in hope and belief that this will happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U635	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U636	My colleague, Andres Anvelt, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U637	Just in case, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U638	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U639	Ladies and gentlemen, Many of you may ask why a professional policeman takes the floor during the discussion of the law on basic school and upper secondary school, but I will simply remind you, to refresh your memory, that I too have had the honour of being a school principal for nearly five years, or four cupcakes. I ran a very specific school, police college. I was also a member of the European Police College Council. Why am I talking about this? For a very simple reason. It was only recently in the Committee on Legal Affairs that we drafted an opinion on the European Commission's proposal to abolish the European Police College as it is today and to bring it all together in one place, in Brussels and in The Hague. We all opposed this because the principle of the functioning of this system so far has been regional, i.e. all the Member States have been able to contribute. Exactly the money has also been distributed. Teachers and others have been satisfied. This is where I get to double standards. On the one hand, our attitude to the centralising requirements of the European Union, and on the other hand, we will do everything to ensure that Estonia's education policy runs counter to the same standard that we want to get from Europe. What am I saying? The PGS, which we are discussing today, has a much broader meaning than regulation in one area. With this law, we indirectly organise regional and social policy, but also all other policies, such as budgetary policy. You can always ask how and why. We are talking about a very specific subject, we are talking about education. But in fact, this indirect arrangement is very simple. First of all, we're pushing a lot of local schools towards closing down. Small and so-called outlying local authorities are unable to perform all the functions that we have foreseen in the PGS draft: maintaining a schoolhouse, having a qualified frame, not to mention what a good parent would expect of a school in the interests of his child. We're essentially taking away the buffer from the school for additional functions. It is clear that if there is a state gymnasium, children will move there as well. My parents want to do better for them. I now come from regional policy to social policy. We now see in Estonia that more and more people are going to work abroad. As we assemble the children in the centers, the question arises as to whether these children will ever return to where they once left. We will certainly also break families, create tensions and ultimately work against our country's primary objective of maintaining our nation and country. If people feel that the state doesn't care about them, education is one aspect of this caring, then they do not feel the need to contribute to the country either. All of this will have an indirect impact on future fiscal policy. Soon we will be seriously concerned about where our taxpayers are, and we will be talking more and more about whether migration policy is right or wrong, while doing everything at the same time to make it as negative as possible for our own people. As a lawyer, I will conclude with one point, on which the chairman of the committee also said that things are not very well here. This concerns the wording of the draft law. I asked in the round of questions what the foundation of the state was all about. I didn't get a very clear answer. We no longer have public limited liability companies, we have public limited liability companies and we also have foundations. It is a legal entity governed by private law, in which the State has a part. We are now introducing a new concept. Moreover, there are still a great many shortcomings in the wording. A good example is § 71: 'A schoolkeeper ensures... ' That's not a good wording. Language editors have not seen this bill. But it must be taken into account that this law affects tens of thousands of people. Why, then, do we write the law so complicated that a simple person, a parent, or a teacher who doesn't exactly teach law doesn't understand it? All this hastens and reminds us of the draft law amending the Land Tax Act, which was discussed in this Chamber a few years ago, which did not suffer any criticism in terms of wording, because it was incomprehensible, unclear and raised questions. The same is true of this bill, which is much more extensive and on which very many people depend their plans and ideas for the future. What am I saying? It is not right that the final text of such a very important draft law will only be received by the members of the commission in the dusk of last night. People look at what we are doing in this Chamber and decide whether they pay their taxes in Estonia or are in the vicinity of another country that actually cares about its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U640	Thank you. Please, Mr Kalev Eagle! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U641	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Glass, I thank you for the detailed and patient explanations you give us. The material that has been presented before us in an unprecedented short period of time is very extensive. Here are the first and second versions, and there were a hundred other suggestions for improvement between them. However, all of this has not given sufficient and reasonable assurance, as shown by the many questions we are asking you. Teachers also have no confidence. So far, the principle of giving an hour of study was valid, but it is now being abolished. What gives the teacher confidence that, for example, if a schoolmaster wants to bully him, he will not be sent to class for 35 hours?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U642	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U643	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Allik! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U644	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is by its very nature one of the basic laws of the Estonian state. It's one big rock in our country's foundation. Therefore, this draft law must not be dealt with with with little or simulated involvement, superficially, hastyly and once again sitting on the head of local authorities. Yet that is what we are doing here. It seems that the uniforms and populist promises of a few coalition politicians are more important than the life force and future of primary and upper secondary education. Involvement for starters. Regrettably, this bill has used the pseudo-inclusion tactics that Res Publica once brought to the Riigikogu. Its first application was the new regime for the appointment of county elders, where the opinion of the local governments was heard about the candidate proposed by the government and even allowed them to vote for or against, but their opinion was not binding on the government, and the government still decided as it had previously been agreed. In this way, too, a very wide range of people have been able to express their views on this draft, from the representatives of the education community to the representatives of the local government associations. Unfortunately, their opinion has not actually been taken into account, and any talk about good legislative practice and inclusion is not simply sincere in this draft. With elegance, the term 'pedagog' is replaced by 'teacher' throughout the text of the law. Thus, the current responsibility of the state for the salaries of school support professionals such as logopaedics, psychologists, social pedagogues and special needs teachers is excluded. The concept of an assistant teacher or teacher's help at school also disappears. Looks like the minister's read too much of Oskar Luts' Springs. Where else does the understanding come from that there is a support specialist in the school, in addition to a teacher, and losing this place is not a big problem? Or maybe she's stuck in her generation's school arrangement when, in addition to her teacher, she was also a hired support specialist with a job as a pioneer driver? In fact, I do not believe that Minister Aaviksoo would deny the need for support specialists. Rehepapp is forced to make a savings of EUR 3.4 million in the salaries of teachers paid by the state. The guarantee of the service provided by the law is unequivocally put on the hands of the municipalities and left to finance them. The government's behavior reminds us of an old pioneer camp joke. The bigger boy gave the smaller one five cupcakes and told him to bring two cupcakes. Colleagues my age remember that one pepsi cost 40 kopeks back then. It is likely that dozens of richer municipalities will continue to pay support specialists. So far, they have paid more salaries to the teachers themselves and will continue to do so, but in much smaller volumes. The poorest, however, simply give up support services and a large number of students lose the necessary service. As a former parish elder, I am very, very upset that once again local governments are treated with arrogance and patronity. I agree that money is low and the Minister's uniform is a value in itself, but it is time for coalition parties to realise that cost increases and, at the same time, tax reductions are simply not sustainable in the long term. This 'compromise' gives the impression that we will adopt the law without a financing chapter. On the one hand, this shows that quantity, not quality, is more important to the coalition. On the other hand, this is a clear sign of the coalition's disengagement. When any draft proposed by the opposition is being processed in the Riigikogu, the coalition is immediately in a state of over-expression and demands to know where the source of cover is, where the money comes from, who pays. We are now discussing the amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, from which the entire financing chapter has been deleted. Isn't this about double standards? Regrettably, the problem posed by paragraph 19 of the draft was not answered today, but also at second reading. Why should a student in a foreign educational establishment be excluded from his/her home school list if he/she does not continue to study as an external student in a home school while studying abroad? This innovation will create problems for students participating in the international student exchange programme for the next academic year. In addition to the substantive problems, there are a number of formal shortcomings in the draft. As the previous speaker has already said, new and interesting terms are used, but without legal definition, such as the foundation of the state. Indeed, the language editor has not seen the improvements made in the draft. If the opposition had initiated such a draft, this first reading would certainly not have passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U645	Thank you, Madam President. Good chairman of the committee! Education and healthcare currently operate quite similar systems: under pressure from the government coalition, it is being pulled to secure the pay of specialists, both here and there, to reduce support services. The only difference is that on the basis of the new PGS, people with no appropriate qualifications can now work as teachers. This means that it is enough for any pocket university to have a diploma in a public administration profession and that's all it takes. The new regime is that no qualification is required, but if it exists, it will not be paid for. Do you not see the risk of the loss of qualification requirements in the teaching profession being reduced by professionalism, which triggers a fall in the overall level of education, look at it in any paradigm?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U646	Thank you. I cannot see these issues as dramatically as you, a good colleague, are dealing with them. These are teachers' grades. It cannot be said that they will be replaced by something, because a new system will be in place, and the level of qualifications of the teacher will be further specified. Certainly, each teacher has an interest in improving their qualifications and skills, but they are motivated by their qualifications. I believe that there are also ever more demanding collections whose role has increased, including parents and students themselves. So I don't see the tragedy of the whole world falling apart.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U647	Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U648	Thank you. Dear waitress, The philosophy of the current Minister of Education in education matters is that greater independence of educational institutions guarantees better quality of education. We see this in this draft, and we also saw this in the context of the reform of higher education. The impact of this self-regulation on the university level can already be seen in some ways. I asked the Minister of Education a question today. Universities now compete more for students. When a student applies for two universities at the same time, he will no longer actually be able to choose between two universities, because the admission to the university of Tartu will have to be confirmed on 19 July, while the University of Tallinn will not be able to know until 25 July whether it has been possible to get into the university. The Minister of Education didn't see any problem here. He thought the system was very good. He pointed out that all laws on education were already too detailed, more self-regulation should be allowed. You are the person who, to a large extent, led the process of dealing with the draft law on higher education reform. Do you think it's too detailed...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U649	The question was too long. One minute to ask, no more.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U650	I'm sorry, I didn't hear the question. There was a long discussion on higher education reform and university law, but I didn't understand exactly what the question was. [[J. Ossinovski's point of view.]] Is the PGS too detailed? That is a very general question. I believe that we should trust the head of school and teachers more, reduce bureaucracy and bring more innovation to the school. I don't think the bill is too detailed and regulates school life too much. Rather, the direction is for each school to shape its own face and to do so within the framework of the current law. There's no big change here. It is clear, however, that the role of headmaster is certainly important. The driver has more free opportunities to develop and direct his school.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U651	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U652	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, My previous question obviously went beyond the power of your response, so I will ask you one simple question. [[Laughter.]] This issue has certainly been discussed many times in the Commission, and you have learned it yourself, so it is easy to answer. Tell me again, however, why it is better for upper secondary school and primary school to be separate, but not the way it is now in our pretty fun rural schools, where they are in the same house, while Estonian education has thus achieved quite a high level even on the scale of the world. Think and answer calmly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U653	Thank you very much for one substantive question. You may be surprised, Mr Lenk, but this law allows full-cycle schools and separate primary schools and upper secondary schools to operate. In the Committee on Culture, the separation of primary school and upper secondary school as an educational philosophical topic was very much under discussion. We discussed this with representatives of pedagogical scientists, local government leaders and the representative organisations of teachers. During this debate, I expressed my personal opinion that there must be a place in Estonia for both primary and secondary schools working separately and for full-cycle schools. We cannot say in absolute categories that separation between comprehensive school and upper secondary school is good, right and necessary everywhere. This depends very much on local circumstances, people and traditions. It is not necessarily necessary to ensure and ensure immediate quality when primary and upper secondary school are divorced, it is not an absolute claim. Once again, it is important to see whether separation or not will contribute to an improvement in the quality of education. This decision depends on a great many aspects. This law does not require the unconditional separation of comprehensive school and upper secondary school, nor do I think it is right and necessary everywhere. It may be, but it may not. That depends on the particular situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U654	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U655	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Chairman of the Committee on Culture, I thank you for your previous reply on cooperation between general education and vocational schools. I agree on that. After graduating from comprehensive school, I think more young people could go to vocational education than they do today. You said a few hours ago, I can't even tell you how many hours ago, that you basically agree that the procedure for this bill has not gone the smoothest, that there have been problems and obstacles both in the government office and in the Commission. Why do you think it's gone like this? Is it because you started at the wrong end? Perhaps we should have agreed on funding first and then on other issues? Or is it because your current coalition partner is poor?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U656	For example, special needs may not be difficult to understand. Although most of the boys doing pranks are not even counted among children with special educational needs, a couple of unruly brats are still enough to beat up the whole class's work. It would certainly help if such an audience-loving child were to receive special care from an assistant teacher, he would make it to school. Hyperactivity, disturbance of attention and behavioural problems are increasingly considered to be the causes of learning difficulties. With a caring attitude and the support of professionals, we can, on many occasions, prevent or mitigate the more serious mental problems, the antisocial behaviour resulting from early school leaving, including the broken school route, at a later age. It's no secret that 70% of middle school dropouts are boys. The gap between boys' and girls' learning outcomes is already evident in primary school, and by the time of the sixth grade, there will be a further increase. Our educational inequality is quite unprecedented throughout the world: for 100 men who have graduated from high school, we have 250 highly educated women. It's hard to tell why, but the truth is that young men mature a little later than ladies, and they'll come to their senses later. But everyone has a place here under the sun, and one thing that depends on whether a person spends his life in the light or in the shadow of his life is an adequate education. A small country with a declining population should pay very much attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U657	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a chair for Priit Toobali! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U658	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, Listening here to the questions and answers about the new school law, I found myself thinking that I am sorry that the name of the current Minister of Education is not Ants, because then, according to Estonian fairy tales, I could call him Clever-Ants. Right now, however, we need to start calling the Minister of Education the Clever Jaguar. Why do I think that? Because what could be more clever than to bring this kind, let us be honest, rather poor draft in the big hall, when teachers and parents are focused on the end of the school year, flowers, graduation dresses and graduation certificates? I have had the opportunity to work as a head of interest at Suure-Jaani Upper Secondary School and later as a cultural advisor in the municipality. Close communication with the teachers at Suure-Jaani School is still ongoing. I asked them what to think of this new school law, the PGS bill. As it has sounded a few times in this Chamber, they said that they have not been able to get into this subject properly because of the end of the school year. But what they would have gone so far into, and the members of the Committee on Culture and the rest of the MPs didn't get the final text of the draft just a few days ago. I had the opportunity to attend a few meetings of the Committee on Culture as an alternate and to be present at these discussions. I must say that these two meetings of the Commission gave me the incorrect impression that as a Member of Parliament, I was forced to wait for the positions of the cabinet. I have learned on the school stand that the state order works the other way: the legislator is in this Parliament and the role of the government is to enforce the law, not the other way round. On the one hand, I am pleased that one of the biggest problems of the draft, the mixed financing model, was removed from the draft, but on the other hand it has not saved the situation. At this point, the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, who made a reasonable choice and defended the autonomy of the municipalities, must be commended. After all, the main problem with the financing model was that there was very little room for decision-making for cities and municipalities and that all the lines would be earmarked for them. I have a feeling that the minister to the Acousousum was quite a setback. He won't forget it anytime soon, and he won't forgive his coalition partner. There is, in fact, a great danger here, namely that with great resentment, the government is organising matters so that all substantive financing decisions are taken by ministerial or government regulations. I sincerely hope that this will not happen, however, so as not to try to circumvent Parliament, and an issue as important as the financing of education will, however, come under the attention of the public in this Chamber. Looking at the documents relating to the draft, we can see that a thorough work has been carried out by the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments to identify the shortcomings of the financing model. They have pointed out that they do not support the direction of sectoral fragmentation of the Equalisation and Support Fund and ask the Riigikogu Committee on Culture not to support the principle of deepening divisional fragmentation, as this leads to a deepening of the so-called silo policy rather than more integration of sectoral policies. The Cities Association and EMOL also stress in their opinion that the solution proposed by the Ministry of Education takes into account the number of children in the local government, but disregards the number of class kits and the different cost of different levels of school, which alters the content of the concept of basic school close to home. I believe we all remember a teacher's strike in this hall that filled with teachers in front of Toompea Castle and later the Toompea Castle. This demonstration clearly showed that the problems of the education system are very serious and need to be addressed. What else was Jaak Aavixoo cornered to do but allow teachers to raise their wages? The bad news is he didn't get enough extra money in the government for his ministry. This is where we come to the fundamental problem of underfunded education, and that is why we have to make strange chariots, roll problems as hot potatoes from one field to another, and pretend that the next reform will make everything right. Life has shown that this is not the case. The editorial of the evening tells us that the current basic school and upper secondary school law has been in force for only three years, but is already working on another version of the Riigikogu Act. The paper asks why these endless reforms are due when some changes have not yet got used to, but the whole system has already been turned on its head. I agree with those journalists who say that constant reform creates confusion, lack of certainty about the future, stress and tension. All of this, of course, results in the quality of teaching and education being affected. You will all understand that if there is so much debate on one draft in the Commission, and we heard the chairman of the committee say that there has been a debate on this subject at 26 sessions, then there is something wrong with this draft. If, as a result of the draft, the ministers have argued with each other, there is something more wrong with the draft. If we process it here during the night hours, then it is not a good bill. The Riigikogu cannot be the rubber stamp of the government and the members of the coalition must not follow the orders of the ministers; the ministers are not the creators of the laws, they are the perpetrators. Jaak Aaviksoo must manage the Ministry of Education according to the laws that we adopt here in the Riigikogu. Of course, it is to be welcomed that legislation is born in reasonable cooperation between ministries and Parliament, but there has been no reasonable cooperation with this draft anywhere. If someone says that preventing this law from being passed is picking up a political point, then he is dealing with very vicious populism. In this form, neither the Centre Party, the Social Democrats, the Federation of Educational Workers nor the Student Association agree with the draft; its problems have been brought to the attention by the Cities Union and the Association of Municipalities that unite municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, The faction of the Centre Party is deeply concerned that this bill will allow good and experienced teachers to leave school because of the loss of their guarantees, reduced real income and increased workload. This draft could lead to a deterioration in the quality of education. We will do everything we can to make sure that it doesn't become the law anytime soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U659	Thank you. Next, call chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U660	Ladies and gentlemen, The Encyclopedia says that the exam is a test of knowledge, skills and skill, and, pay attention to it, an assessment. The assessment shall be carried out in order to determine the minimum level from which the student has successfully acquired knowledge. Once he's passed the exam, this level is consistent with some standard. Let's go back to the math state exam, because this is the funniest part of it. The objectives of this exam in our schools are as follows. The first goal is to find out how structured and organized the upper secondary school graduate's mathematics knowledge is. Another goal is to explain how well a student can apply what he has learned. The third goal is to find out what the upper secondary school graduates are preparing for mathematics so that they can continue their studies at the next level of education. Due to the logic of this draft, 1% of all the knowledge acquired over the 12 years is sufficient to meet these objectives. In fact, I already mentioned it in my question, topics such as real numbers, equations and equations, trigonometry, vector plane, line equation, functions, function limit and derivative, probability theory, descriptive statistics and stereometry. Imagine for a moment that you are driving a bus driven by a driver who has a certificate that he has passed a test at a driving school of 1%. Or imagine at our age it should be possible to imagine that you will be operated by a doctor who has graduated from the Faculty of Medicine in Tartu... What's so funny, Igor? That is the logic of this law. You support this law, and that's the logic of that law. As honest people, you are obliged to continue spreading it. We need doctors to study and pass state and final exams. Once the doctor's passed a 1% test, he's the real doctor who's going to do the surgery. Why should a doctor be subject to any other rules? Now let's go to a document like the State Exam in Mathematics. I was wondering who could pass the exam with a 1% result, as this minimum level is. It is hardly a person who possesses the ability to convert root expressions. I don't think you can do that with a 1% result. He hardly knows the sine theorem when he's only scored one point. I don't think he can figure out the derivative of a function. How could he have such knowledge? It's not going to be able to find a positive area of some function by using a blueprint. What about the derivative of the area function and finding its zeroes? I don't think that's gonna work. But what does it take to get this 1 ball on the state exam? I'll tell you. It takes something like understanding the problem. For this, mathematics gets exactly 1 point on the state exam. I'm going to read you the problem that this is about. This is a task for which you can get 10 points to solve: 'Amsterdam in Berlin,' Prague form a triangle (see figure) with two angles of 50° and 110°. It's 300 miles from Berlin to Prague. How far is Amsterdam from Berlin and Prague from Amsterdam? Give me the answer 10 km. " The problem is understood when a child realizes that these cities are not in one place, but there is a distance between them, they are not in one straight line. If he realizes that the result is a triangle, he's understood the problem. You see, ladies and gentlemen, in order for him to understand this, he does not need to be taught mathematics at all. It's something else, it's not math. The Ministry of Education could accept this very good suggestion that there is no need to teach mathematics when the state examination is made by 1 point out of 100 and this point is just for understanding. The moron, of course, doesn't understand it, so at least they're the ones we're gonna separate from the others. But a normal child is willing to learn further, because if he understands this task, he'll be fine. Speaking seriously, you can raise your hand on the side of the coalition and accept this law, but be honest people and take the word 'exam' out of there. The exam doesn't fit in the normal sense of what it really means. The examination is the verification and evaluation of knowledge, skills and skills. It doesn't fit 1% at all because it's not an exam. The question is, the higher the plank that needs to be overcome, the more man exerts himself. This applies both in the direct and in the transferred sense. Then he gets a desire to learn, to improve himself, to have a high objective, which requires work and study. You're gonna lower this plank as much as you can. You can't just let it go to the mine, Aaviksoo would let it go to the minus, if that were possible. He's already put our education system in a place I can't name in this hall. But you can't, you can't! Our Estonian language exam is the most difficult language examination in Europe. Imagine if graduating from upper secondary school would be enough for a person to understand that he is not spoken to in English but in Estonian, and he would have passed the exam. Don't do anything stupid! At least replace this 1 point provision!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U661	Then I have a question that...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U662	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which is being discussed here today in the Riigikogu, is crude and controversial. Not only is it irresponsible, because it is largely based on money savings, but it is designed to produce cracks, i.e. school breakers. After all, people are talking about students, teachers, parents and the future of the country as a whole. They say don't spit in the old well until the new one's ready. But breaking it is proud, half as proud as patching the old one. So why not rush over the rising school support system when this way you can draw teachers a minimum wage? However, the government had to allow a higher minimum wage on the strike of teachers last year. I'm trying to unravel only one part of the educational problem. According to the Ministry of Education, we have 5,500 children, as many as 24000 children with special educational needs, in the opinion of the schools themselves. These scissors in numbers are derived from methodology, rather from practice. We are in the process of transition to so-called inclusive education, which means that the lion's share of 'non-standard' children must continue to survive in mainstream schools. At the same time, there is no certainty that there will not be a loss of money by which so far so-called educational achievement has been rewarded by, for example, logos, psychology, special pedagogies or assistant teachers. After all, all art is that the word 'pedagog' is replaced by 'teacher' by the word 'teacher' in the law. How, then, can children who need help to complete the curriculum be included in regular training if the school cannot employ support specialists to notice and understand the child's particularities and needs? The teacher doesn't have any preparation for it, but he's got his hands and feet full without it. It's the schoolkeeper's business. They're gonna find the newcomers at the PGS. In other words, let the municipalities, which are mostly school managers, take care of it. This is another obligation that the country delegates downwards, without showing where to take the money for it. Well, at least that's the way it is right now, but let's see autumn. Let's hope for the best! The secret medicine of the Minister of Education for children with special educational needs One way or another, for a child who needs continuous study assistance, going to a counsellor away from home and school is no solution. A hundred suggestions for improvements to the PGS are already in salt. When this law will finally be ready for school, only God knows. One thing is certain: the funding of school support specialists must be taken up by the state. Otherwise, we will sink not only the so-called inclusive education, but the whole system. I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U663	We have been talking about this for a very long time today. Believe me, a wise schoolmaster who cares about his teachers and school development will not do so. The teacher must have time for work other than auditory work and contact hours. There is no point in considering teachers as so weak and inefficient that they cannot negotiate or conclude employment contracts in such a way that their interests, professional development, etc. are protected and taken into account. The authors of the bill and your questioner think a little bit in different paradigms. But I believe that as time goes on, the better you will understand that the chosen direction, which applies, for example, to doctors, also works here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U664	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U665	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I come back to my first question. Of course, you can discuss the relationship between school food and education, but the reality is that quite a number of children go to school not only because of knowledge but also because they get warm food from there. I am looking at Amendment 40. It says here that the commission decided to disregard this proposal from the Group of the Social Democratic Party. If a majority of the members of the Commission decided to vote against this amendment, what were their reasons for doing so? Or maybe you can tell us what your reasons were. I don't know how you voted. Of course, it doesn't say that. I simply assume, in the light of past experience, that the Reform Party opposed this proposal. What are your reasons for objecting to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U666	Thank you. We have discussed the topic of school lunch from this point of view, and we have had this discussion in another context. I don't know the exact dates when it's been discussed. But it is based on the fact that the state in primary school supports the provision of free school food. There are schools where the municipality also provides free school meals for upper secondary school students. There, for example, money or possible reserves from primary school are used for this purpose. These examples are different. Unfortunately, I do not have any statistics here when many upper secondary schools where the municipality allows it are already free of charge for school lunch students. But the general attitude has been that the country participates in primary school co-financing free school meals, but does not do so at upper secondary school.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U667	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U668	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good performer! I understand that the questions and issues are already repeated, but also one of the pre-questioners said that this reform and the new draft law are so voluminous, but the solutions have failed so badly that the questions come to infinity. I have a question, too. Maybe you'll take some time and discuss it. Let's look at your constituency and your neighborhood in Põlva and Valgamaa. The implementation of the PGS and educational reform, which was born as a miscarriage and miscarriage, has led to a situation in two cities, Valga and Põlva, where education life is basically standing. Perhaps you'll comment a little on what's happened in Põlva? There's been a year or two discussing where school comes from and where it doesn't come from. Once three courses of study were needed, then three courses of study were completed...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U669	We're out of time to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U670	Thank you very much. I am surprised, Mr Lenk, that your demagogic skills, by which you bring together all kinds of issues that are not at all connected to each other into one issue, and then, with your question, you put your beloved party partner, Georg Pelisaare, at risk. Why are you doing this? Why do you come to this hall to sort out your party's affairs like that and you want to drag me into this? The Committee on Culture did not discuss this issue, and I am not going to discuss the Pelisaare issue at the moment either.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U671	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U672	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Culture! My question concerns cooperation between types of schools. Much has been said that, for example, general education schools and vocational schools should cooperate more by using common learning tools, classrooms or something else. Does this bill create or restrict more opportunities for cooperation between schools such as general education and vocational schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U673	That was a very good question. The direction must certainly be to ensure that there is closer cooperation between school types and that they can complement each other. At the moment, having thought quickly about this, I cannot see in this draft such strong mechanisms as, for example, vocational schools and upper secondary schools for closer cooperation. However, there are certainly mechanisms and opportunities that make students graduating from primary school think more about where to continue their education, either in upper secondary school or in vocational school. Personally, I consider this to be very positive, and I believe that the Commission, too, believes that if more is thought about what is right to do after primary school, it is very commendable. Our vocational schools are very good and very well developed. More students could go to vocational school.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U674	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U675	Thank you very much. When I alone planned the discussion on the thematic blocks of the PGS, in consultation, of course, with the advisors, I proposed that the Commission begin with the substantive issues of education. The first topic was the possible separation of primary school and upper secondary school, its pros and cons. We went through all the issues thoroughly and we left the financing issue last on my proposal, with the idea that we would first go through the substantive issues and only then would we arrive at the funding that we would all agree on. This does not mean that from the outset the Commission did not require an implementing act from the Ministry of Education and Research. We insisted. Indeed, the final stage of the procedure culminated in financial disputes. I think that the right decision has been made to separate this part of the draft now and to move on to those issues where there is either consensus or consensus quite close. This is something that we need to deal more closely with in the autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U676	Thank you very much. Valeri Korb, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U677	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. Every schoolmaster has responsibilities. I want to know your opinion whether, if a new law is adopted, the principal's chances of fulfilling his duties will expand, or whether everything will remain the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U678	Thank you. They're expanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U679	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U680	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Commission, thank you very much for a very thorough review. I hope that some who are not familiar with the rather detailed discussions of the Committee on Culture have received a better overview of this subject today with your answers. Looking also at how little the President has had to make comments, it seems that you have remained within the framework of our in-depth discussions. However, my question is about flexibility. The justification for several proposals is that more flexibility can be created in this way, while in some places we have quite persistently avoided flexibility. My question is about school types. However, in your opinion, we do not want to admit that, for example, the distribution form 1. Class 1 and 7.1 to 7.12. Maybe it'd be smarter to get to class than...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U681	Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U682	Thank you. As you, a good colleague, remember, we discussed this quite a lot in committee. It reminds me, I don't think you were there at this or even at several sessions, but it doesn't matter right now. We've been discussing these school types, and I myself encouraged this argument. Indeed, there was a very heated discussion about why there could still not be a progymnasium in Estonia together with a secondary school. The progymnasium as a separate type of school covers 7.1 to 9. Class 1. There are schools like this. I've been close to one of those schools myself. Various opinions have been published about the progymnasium. It's like 7 to 9. The class is a separate type of school, so it gives the school keepers a kind of signal that they should start creating these schools. The Minister of Education has seen the danger of being 7/9. The class, or progymnasium, operates as a separate school, for example at some upper secondary schools in a larger centre, gives a kind of clue to the pupils and parents of primary schools in the vicinity of the school, so that children can come to the 6th grade progymnasium even after the 6th grade, it is easier for them to get to the upper secondary school. With this, we may not know this for sure, because this impact analysis has not been carried out, we are putting a blow on the basic school of our near-home school of 1/1/9. Class. This risk should certainly be analysed. I don't think that fear is taken from the air, but I wouldn't dramatize that danger either. To sum up what I have said at the meetings of the Commission, I think that we should be more flexible in the types of schools and enable the school manager to run the kind of school that is basically right. In this sense, our pedagogical views, a good colleague, are similar, maybe even match.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U683	Thank you very much. Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U684	Thank you, Mr President. I apologize for the too long question! This time, I'm not gonna make such long compliments. I'm gonna stay within a minute. Indeed, these flexible forms would be useful from this point of view because we are very likely to have six-class schools in the next few years and a flexible transition to progymnasium would be very useful. However, it is a question of teacher accreditation and qualifications. The initiator of the draft act has offered that accreditation will be abolished because it will be replaced by professional qualifications. Today it is clear that the professional system is not ready. As chairman of your committee, would you have been in favour of the initiator coming forward with a proposal that accreditation should remain valid until the professional system as a whole has been brought before us?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U685	Thank you. I, too, will return to the previous question for a moment, from this angle, as you put it, that it is precisely schools that are about to emerge, where there is one point to six. Class 1. It's real life, we can really see that these schools are happening. Schools with up to four classes open up more classes to the sixth grade. I have to agree with you, however, that it would, of course, be better if the qualification system were completed and the tables could be followed by the way everything works. The Commission, of course, has the initial materials in place and this direction is also clear. I believe that there is no major problem that this system is not fully completed, because there is a transitional period. Until 1 January 2014, if I remember correctly, the grades will be awarded, then we will move on to the levels. On behalf of the Committee on Culture, I pledge to be involved in this matter and to support the Ministry of Education and Research, the Chamber of Professionals, the Teachers' Association and perhaps anyone else who needs it, so that the system of qualifications can be put in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U686	Thank you very much, good waitress. I don't know what's going on, but there's no more questions for you. The round of questions and answers has been exhausted. Thank you very much for your endurance and your comprehensive answer to the questions! I'm opening negotiations. First comes the chair Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U687	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm concerned about this bill. On the one hand, there are a great many issues here that have not yet been resolved. The most important thing, in my opinion, is the objectives of education and, with it, the development and regularisation of policies, the coverage of resources, administration and clarification, as well as the clarification of the role and responsibility of the state and local government. In other words, there must be analysis, strategy, plan, resources, mechanism, partners, vision of the outcome and responsibility. We don't have it. We have asked questions today, to which the chairman of the committee has answered very diplomatically and well, but unfortunately, unfortunately, these questions did not receive comprehensive answers. Firstly, the responsibilities of the government and the local government have not been precisely established. There are therefore problems with resources and sources. Everything is in the air, everything is planned to be done in the fall. Therefore, the draft law that is before us is in itself, and the so-called 'financial scheme' is in itself. As I said, this last one is allowed to be presented to us in the fall. It would be right if we had everything we needed. However, we only have a partial solution, which does not give us the opportunity to shape an idea of how the proposed model, if of course you can call it a model, will work economically. If we do not have a part of the economy in our hands, it is difficult to talk about administration and the sharing of responsibility between the Ministry and the local government. There is also no answer to the question of how this model will have to work. Not to mention that it would be right if, in addition to the draft, there were all the acts that existed before. I'm talking about regulations, arrangements and maybe other drafts. As long as all these questions are separate, it is impossible to imagine what can be expected of these changes. Now there are more questions than answers. Secondly, I am concerned about the role and burden of the teacher and the salary. Neither we nor the teachers understood the draft. If the proposed solution is designed as a step that must show respect for the teacher, it can be said for certain that the teachers themselves cannot regard it as such, rather they consider it a step against them. I fear that the teaching profession will not gain confidence or respect in this step and that the teaching profession will not become more popular among young people. Non-solving the issue of support specialists - I am talking about logo beets, psychologists, social workers - means that the state does not consider this area to be very important. This leads to problems for children who need the help of support specialists. On the other hand, it shows the attitude of the country: the country does not need much support specialists. Restructuring, if the issue has not been resolved in places, will not produce a good result. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U688	Thank you. Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U689	Ladies and gentlemen, Somehow in a hurry, and by force, we are being forced upon this great material. It is not solid and raises serious doubts about the quality of the whole thing. First, we were shown a text on which a hundred questions arose in the Commission, and then we were given a completely different text, which, by the way, is full of mistakes. For those who have put together this text, they have passed the exam with a 1% result. In addition, the whole thing was split in half, i.e. the school reform we are talking about now, but funding sometime in the future, if we ever get this far. Actually, it's all about money. Minister Aaviksoo told us here that the system is spending a lot of money on other tasks. He even named the boiler hunter. Indeed, the current situation is that teachers' salaries account for 36% of the system's costs. In other parts of the world, the costs for teachers are said to be 50% of the costs of the system. Yeah, well, teacher's pay is a knot. Teachers were on strike and demanding more wages, but this draft option, which we have proposed, will not raise teachers' salaries, but will bring together the costs of the system. If the wage bill was 36% and we're pulling the system together, it looks like it's relatively 50%, but maybe 60%, or even 70%, who knows about it, because we're not talking about money today. Of course, this cosmetic change is not what the teachers wanted at all. They wanted the system to come up with more money. We have some kind of road robber logic here that we're talking about some kind of activity today, but we'll talk about money another time. The highway robber also says we'll sharpen the knife tonight, but we'll count the money in the morning. What, then, is savings made in the education system? At the expense of support specialists, such as logo beets. They say the local government keeps paying. We are often told that the local government has to solve tasks that no one else can, does not want or does not want to solve. However, it must also be taken into account that local authorities are very different and very different. Some are bigger, some are smaller, some have more money, others have less money, some can hire logo beets, others can't. However, such services relating to school children and education should be equally available regionally, so they should be financed by the State. You can't throw everything on the hands of local governments, about the principle that each municipality feeds its own sands. Schoolchildren are not cripples, they are our future. It is very frustrating that the qualifications of a teacher, if any, no longer exist. Any person who can stretch through some pocket university can, for example, get a diploma in public administration or something, but he can go to school and teach children everything he hasn't learned. That's the kind of school we want! Of course, the whole school reform is gonna be greasy about this state exam thing. It's really an anecdote. If you get 1 out of the 100 points required, you've passed the state exam. I'd be more honest to say we don't need a state exam, nothing, we're gonna throw it all in the trash. In fact, the points that come from the final exam are important. It is claimed that 50 points are currently the limit that must have been reached. By the way, higher education requires at least 65 points, and they don't talk without it. But when my younger son entered the university medical school two years ago, it took 89.7 points to get in, if I'm not mistaken. He thought he was pretty good at graduating, but he only got a nibin-nabin in, maybe last. There you go. I do not know what this bill means and what the proposed school reform means. Is it really that we want to get cheap savings education that has no quality or anything? Perhaps here is the noble goal of giving young people such education that they are no longer wanted abroad, so they will remain here to do some easier work. That may be the case, but then let's be honest that that's the goal. At the moment, we will, in any case, receive a savings education. By the way, the same processes take place in healthcare. We have savings health care. These processes are very similar. There was a teacher strike, there was a doctor strike. Teachers demanded pay, doctors demanded wages. In the case of teachers, it is now done that the proportion of their salary in education money is increased in a cosmetic way. The same was done in health care, the price of healthcare did not change, but the wage component was changed within the price. So some other stuff was pulled down there, and then there's less thread, a needle, or a painkiller, but maybe the boiler hunter was kicked off the job, why not? In any case, it seems that both reforms have the same author. In fact, one author is the Minister of Education, the other is the Minister of Social Affairs. But maybe the author is the Minister of Finance. Maybe his ears can be seen from behind. In any case, the two most important people in each person's life are not the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Education, but the first teacher and the last doctor. At the moment, however, these specialists will receive such qualifications that we do not need one or the other. Fortunately, however, the church is still isolated from the country, and our Minister of Finance will not be able to access it. I cannot vote for such a law. Those who do this in confusion may not understand what they're doing. May the Lord God forgive them! Amen!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U690	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Here today we are discussing a very important bill, which has provided us with quite a lot of food for thought and debate for the last days of the spring session. It has been rather difficult to get this draft into this hall, and, as has been heard from colleagues in the Committee on Culture, there were quite a difference of opinion among coalition partners. Unfortunately, the text of the draft second reading was rushed to the tables of the members of the Riigikogu, and there is very little time left for the public to see it. In fact, my main concern with this bill is that the government is rushing and pushing its way again. Some colleagues have already mentioned here that the end of the school year has simply not given educational staff the opportunity to take part in these issues. I am very pleased that in recent days, however, the opinion of educators has also been expressed in the media, because they are the ones most affected by this bill. The e-mail from the Estonian Educational Workers' Association arrived in the mailbox of all members of the Riigikogu about Tuesday's lunch, stressing that the draft will bring about major and fundamental changes in the whole of education. This is particularly the case for teachers and school support and support staff, starting with the principles of remuneration, working time, duties, qualifications requirements and organisation of studies. The Alliance of Educational Workers is very concerned about the definition of working time and wants a maximum level of national training. This is one of the main points that the Centre Party Group is also concerned about, because already the teacher is doing more work than the working time figures show. There are also a number of very good teachers in my community, and I am absolutely convinced that the work they have done with their hearts has not been appreciated enough. It is perfectly understandable that ministerial officials and the minister tend to talk about working time numbers, but it is essentially a number of separate blocks: preparation of hours, giving hours, checking work and extra-class work. Thus, the legislator cannot allow a situation where the teacher has to work even more for the same money. This would open the way for workers to leave the education system. Another problem associated with the first is the loss of teachers' grades. In one of today's papers, the Minister of Education called them honours from the old Prussian system. Let him have that opinion, but I think it makes perfect sense that the position of a teacher changes and that the salary increases with the increase in his experience. Our government departments are constantly talking about the private sector and its functioning. In the private sector too, more experienced professionals have an advantage in the labour market and, most of the time, higher fees. In the education system, however, teachers are labeled as followers of the old Prussian system. This is not very polite, and I think it hurts our good educators. The position of the Alliance of Educational Workers that they are strongly opposed to the abolition of the separate remuneration for the work of the head of the classroom cannot be overlooked either. Indeed, the role of a class manager should not be underestimated, since it is he who is able to evaluate the social and educational maturity of students and to give advice for future life, including the choice of education. It was all the more interesting to hear the Minister of Education say in Riigikogu Question Time that the position of head of class will continue. However, the bill clearly states that the separate fee for class management will be abolished. So this is a situation where the mouth says one thing, but the hand does another. Or is there another solution? It is also strange that the chairman of the Committee on Culture was not able to respond very accurately on the subject of class management. Or is that what you have to understand? The headmaster's going to stay unremunerated. Whether it's done or not, that's different. I read Peeter-Eerik Ots' assessment of the draft law on our tables. He writes: "It is difficult to take this bill and start praising it again somewhere. In the Teachers' Association, we tried this tactic for a change in the general nose-wrinkling process and ran into a dead end in the greatest positivity. I look at three moments which are characteristic of such a topical PGS, generally the organisation of education, and which also make praise very difficult to say impossible. ' This is once again a reform of our education system, which cannot be done lightly and hastily. The future of Estonia as a whole depends on the quality of the education system, and the task of the Riigikogu is to ensure that this future is as bright as possible. For nothing, almost 100 amendments were tabled to this draft. Therefore, I would ask you to think carefully about whether you can really support a draft that could violate the functioning of the education system. I don't think you want it. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Centre Party Group, and also the Socialist Group, I have so understood, is deeply concerned that due to this amendment to the law, good and experienced teachers may leave school because of the loss of their guarantees, reduced real income and increased workload. This draft leads to a deterioration in the quality of education. We'll do everything we can to make sure it doesn't become the law anytime soon. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U691	Thank you! Please, colleague Valeri Korb! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U692	Ladies and gentlemen, In the last few days, I've had a lot of talk with teachers and school principals. I would like to address the issues and issues that were the most acutely discussed in these negotiations here on the board today. The first major block to be discussed is teacher training. Paragraph 75 (2) of the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school states that the professional duty of a teacher is to supplement his professional skills and to keep up with educational innovations. In my opinion, before we demand anything, we need to create opportunities to meet this requirement. It's a pretty complicated situation right now. Firstly, the Ministry of Education and Research and the national allocation of 2%, the more the 1% to come will not be enough to train a qualified and qualified teacher. The Ministry of Education allows free training that is currently organised by universities. These are not mostly topical on the subject, are short-term or are too low in the number of study places, and unfortunately not all those wishing to get there will be able to get there. Another serious concern is that the country has no vision of the teacher training system as a whole, nor has a solid training strategy been created. Currently, schools can only choose from a rather limited and uncoordinated range of opportunities offered by training companies and universities. Courses often repeat each other, topics overlap. Lectors may not even know about school life. The knowledge acquired in chaoticly in their subject (some of the necessary subjects remain overlooked by trainers) does not help the teacher but create even more confusion. Thirdly, I would also like to say a few words for the protection of Russian-speaking teachers. The transition to Estonian-language learning has been well supported by the efforts of the state and trainings that support it are ongoing. But let us not forget that in Russian-language schools most subjects are still taught in Russian. Teachers working in these schools deserve as much attention as their Estonian-speaking colleagues, and they also need training. For example, the Russian language and literature teachers of Kohtla-Järve schools recently complained that they had not had any practical training for seven years. How can we require teachers to have systematic knowledge and a comprehensive life picture if the state does not guarantee this at teacher level? The second block is state examinations and graduating from upper secondary school. Paragraph 31 (5) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act currently provides that the state examination has been passed satisfactorily if at least 50% of the maximum result has been achieved. Now that the test is over, we can talk about how real it is to meet this requirement in its current form. Unfortunately, schools had to admit that a threshold of 50% would not allow many 11th grade students to complete upper secondary school. 20% was a viable and reasonable requirement that motivated students to make an effort to graduate, but did not panic them. Teachers and school leaders are depressed about this situation. It must not be forgotten that any good child may be talented in mathematics, but foreign languages are not progressing in any way. If we keep the 50% barrier, our universities may lose talented students and winners of the Olympiads because they lose the opportunity to graduate from upper secondary school and receive secondary education. The third block I want to talk about today is the support granted by the state. Paragraph 1 (46) of the draft law states that special provisions are to be allocated annually from the state budget to municipalities and cities. Unfortunately, this provision excluded where this money could be allocated and should be allocated, namely for the remuneration of support specialists, specialised pedagogues, psychologists, logopeds and others. Thus, it is up to the local authorities to have these specialists in schools. If the local government has enough money, schools can provide support systems and support specialists. Local authorities differ in their material base, but children with special educational needs continue everywhere and their number continues to increase. Given that the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act provides for the establishment of special classes and groups in ordinary schools, the Director is also obliged to ensure the availability of these specialists. It is logical that the law provides for the obligation of the State to pay the fees to support specialists. The preparation and further training of support specialists will also be a painful place. § 44 of the draft law states that the Minister of Education and Research establishes qualification requirements for support specialists. In order to meet the qualification requirements, support professionals must undergo training. The state has allocated 1% for training, which is intended only to meet the training needs of teachers. The amount allocated from the local government budget for training is often small and does not cover the training needs of support specialists. It would be reasonable to provide in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act state support for the further training of support specialists. We hope that this issue will be resolved in the autumn, as has already been said several times on this board. Finally, it is already difficult for schools to monitor the ever-changing changes in the PGS, with educational reforms coming one after the other not providing an opportunity to assess the effectiveness of the previous reform and its impact on the education system. Instead of real work, teaching students, school leaders and teachers need to constantly monitor changes and the avalanche of papers requiring further changes is already moving towards the school. Unfortunately, in this situation, these changes to the PGS cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U693	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U694	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Valeri Korb, Enn Eesmaa, Kalev Kallo, Ester Tuiksoo and, as was said in the past, Primknuvši k nim, or Igor Gräzin, who joined them. Thank you for representing the coalition here! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is not the first time in the Riigikogu. These changes have been made in the past, but no one has analysed how they have been implemented and how they have produced results. There is only one thing we know: the level of education is falling, and students are thinking more and more about leaving Estonia after graduation and going somewhere to look for a better life. Our group's driving around a lot. When we meet students in schools, we often ask their plans whether they intend to stay in Estonia after graduation. When, seven to eight years ago, 20 to 30% of the students who were planning to leave Estonia and more wanted to leave Russian school, 60 to 70% of the students in both Estonian and Russian schools have indicated that they intend to leave Estonia after graduation. If the country does not have any money, it is engaged in reforms, but this constant reform is not going to take us much further. The Estonian Educational Workers' Association sent a letter to all members of the Riigikogu and asked us to take their views into account. They stressed that what was planned in the draft would lead to major and fundamental changes in education as a whole. This is particularly the case for teachers and auxiliary and support staff at schools, for changes to their remuneration policies, working hours, duties, qualifications requirements and organisation of studies. The Estonian Educational Workers' Association stressed that they strongly oppose the abolition of the payment of a separate fee for the work of the class manager. The amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act are intended to abolish a separate fee for the introduction of the school. This step is dangerous given the importance of the class manager's role in the social development of young people, support for learning, etc. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, said at the Riigikogu Question Time today that the class management will not go away and the teachers who do this work will be rewarded. The Minister said that money for class management will continue to be allocated. There is no limit to this, but it can be increased at the discretion of the headmaster. Class training can be an additional task to the 35-hour working week, be it five or ten hours, for example, what is considered right. It is clear that schools are made into companies where the headmaster is the chairman of the company. No wonder teachers don't strike now because they're tired. It's gonna be another year of study. You could say it's kind of like concentration camp syndrome. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U695	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U696	Thousands of people almost willingly went into the oven because they no longer had the strength or the desire to live. About this kind of thing is happening to teachers who don't believe anyone. I'm going to finish with a little comment published in today's Postimees. The minister is known to have a relief style of leadership and straight-line thinking. This can sometimes be quite effective if projects, reforms or companies are run, including political parties. Unfortunately, the management of such a large area as the education and science of an entire country, albeit a small country, requires a little more consideration and, basically, listening. It just doesn't work out that a very smart and capable minister says what school principals and government officials have to do, and that's when they do it without susserizing and pulling the blanket into their side. This system will be destroyed after it has caused all the damage it can cause. That concludes my speech and says that I will not vote in favour of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U697	Thank you! Please, colleague Kalev Kallo! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U698	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Like the previous speakers, I consider it my need and duty to draw attention to the most important, softly expressed, hogs of this draft. This is a bill that seeks to destroy one of the main arteries of national self-being and survival After all, the easiest thing to do is to wipe out all kinds of activities with money: turn off the tap and it will die out of its own way. Losing the cost of class management, they try to stop children from developing and raising them at school. Even now, class managers are saying that the small money that has been provided as a bonus is actually needed on the students. One tiny example. There are still students in the class whose behavior requires communication with their parents. Several class managers have claimed that up to 80% of parents do not answer their e-mails, receive parents on a mobile phone at night, and then have long conversations about their successor's behavior. You don't usually hang up. In the future, do the class managers have to start paying these phone bills out of their already small teacher's salary? At the same time, it has been established by law that there must be development discussions, and the class manager must also organise events that unite the class and support children's development. There should be a minimum fee for class management, from which the school could pay a higher fee, or a minimum fee for a single development interview. The role of the head of class is now highlighted solely in the recognition of and response to school violence, but an important part of this work is also the prevention of early school leaving. In the future, the integration of students of other nationalities will be added to this, so the work of the head of class will increase in the future. Teachers will have a 35-hour working week. It has not been established how much of the teacher's overall working time constitutes direct education and education, i.e. giving an hour. The regime so far, which provides 18 to 24 hours of substance, is unfortunately abolished. From now on, the teacher will face a much higher workload, as after the abolition of the load limits, the teacher can also send the teacher to the class for 35 hours, plus the time to prepare the hours. But if the teacher's still in charge of the class! Three exclamations and three question marks should be placed at the end of this sentence. According to the draft law, the levels of qualification of teachers will disappear. Thus, teachers are placed in a single grade, which in turn does not motivate teachers to constantly supplement themselves. In addition, this means that the salaries of teachers will be increased at the expense of the salaries of more experienced teachers. Today, a Methodist earns over a hundred euros more than a normal teacher. Thus, because of the alleged increase in the pay of teachers organised by Minister Aaviksoo, the Methodist loses his real income, which may lead to the leaving of the school for specialists. It also reduces teachers' motivation to do additional work, for example, to draw up workbooks, which are now needed to gain a career as a Methodist. In financing local authorities, the state is now earmarked to allocate funds only to the minimum wage of teachers. No funds are allocated to the head of study, textbooks, workbooks and other educational materials such as brushes, balls, etc., no money is foreseen. In addition to the means of paying the minimum wage, municipalities now need to find their own resources for all other educational expenditures, which until now were considered to be part of education support. It is necessary to find money for the recognition of more experienced teachers, to support classroom management, choir management and recreational activities, to support special children, to pay for museum visits, to support participation in regional and national events, etc. In addition to the above, support specialists are no longer funded: school psychologists, special pedagogues, logos, etc. This means that support professionals disappear from school, which in turn worsens the situation of students. The amendment is particularly cynical at the moment when the new curriculum already prescribes obligations for schoolkeepers, for which there are no resources. In addition, the Ministry of Education and Research proposes to fund schools directly bypassing local authorities, which is not in line with the European understanding of the right to self-determination of local authorities. Reading all that has been written down in the bill, I once again have a rhetorical question: what kind of extension of evil power has the Fatherland Union and his successor IRL acted over time, if they have constantly tried to push the Estonian state and people towards destruction? I will give just a few examples of this huge long list. Tens of thousands of people and families were started to be evicted from their homes under the infamous ownership reform label. There was an attempt to destroy agriculture, but fortunately there was something left of it, and it is now being restored. For the price of the sandwich, they tried to parse Estonian power plants, with the price being lower than the amount now taken out each year as a dividend. At some point, even the liquidation of liquidity was mentioned. An internationally sought-after crook was smuggled into Estonia to sell to him the Estonian Railway. I think it was Angotti. Now they want to destroy the education system of the main architect of national self-being and survival. What an evil thing to do to your people! There is no way to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U699	Thank you. Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U700	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Federation of Educational Workers Reemo Voltri! Ladies and gentlemen, I will stop on the question of why neither I nor my entire group can support the adoption of Bill 340 as its current form, despite the fact that the controversial financing chapter was removed from the draft, and the draft has also made positive changes on the initiative of the Commission, which had not even been proposed by the Ministry of Education. Looking at the remaining parts of the draft, it is a pity that the Ministry, and therefore the Coalition, did not support any of our suggestions for improvement, even though they did not contradict the positions of the Ministry of Education, but were simply trying to make the provisions of the draft more rational and acceptable to municipalities and educators. I will introduce you to these proposals in a more fundamental way. The desire of the Ministry to establish state secondary schools in the county towns and its current activities in this regard are very good and welcome. But why does this legally exclude the possibility of setting up full-cycle schools or progymnasiums in the future? Why should our education system not be more flexible and subject to natural competition? Why do you have to start financialally strangling those rural governments who have decided to keep upper secondary school education in their school? Why must the creation of clean upper secondary schools be practiced in essence by coercion, just as Soviet power in its time created a collective society? The Ministry once again knows what's only good and pushes it on stupid parish and school leaders. Support for Amendment 3 would be limited to the legal possibility of establishing full cycle schools, progymnasiums and a combined general education and recreational school in the future. After all, existing schools can continue to work under point 53 anyway. The possibility of financial survival in our small towns and rural settlements of high schools with a vibrant and strong tradition of 60-100 upper secondary school students should be guaranteed by the lack of funding of the draft. However, our amendment No 19, which we ask to support, would provide a substantive basis for this by clearly separating the tasks of the state and the municipality in the provision of upper secondary school education, giving the state full responsibility for the completion of the curriculum and supporting the municipality in the creation of a learning environment and the development of students. This would mean school- and curriculum-based funding for upper secondary school education rather than student funding. This is the path that Minister Kisler offered in Question Time, saying that the funding of upper secondary schools must be based on the decision made by the state and local government associations which secondary schools will remain in the county and then on equal treatment of these schools, not on unfair competition between secondary schools, which is currently being created by the Ministry with the draft submitted. The IRL could understand that the idea of administrative reform, based on attraction centres, offered by the Minister of Regional Affairs, becomes ridiculous when the Minister of Education previously destroys secondary schools in these centres of attraction. Let me give you an example. Why would Avinurmes, a high school with a strong 70 students and two well-developed courses of study, be destroyed by the chairman of a successful reform party council? Why should neighboring municipalities, sending their young people to Avinurme School, pay a bounty for them than children in a farther, richer state gymnasium in Jõhvi? After all, the Ministry's second basic idea is also good: to increase the rights and responsibilities of the head of school, especially when determining salary. Of course, the chairman of the board of the Estonian Association of School Leaders at Toomas Kruusimäe is right, who said that this option would only make sense if schools were financed on the basis of a 16-hour standard load rather than a 21-hour standard load, as has been done and will be done in the future. However, this would mean allocating additional funding to the education system, which the Minister of Education does not even apply for. However, the abolition of minimum school compositions and hourly rates currently proposed in the draft leaves the teacher completely helpless in wage negotiations. The negotiations will essentially disappear at all, because what is the point of negotiating only the minimum wage, which is dictated by the Minister of Finance anyway. I do not think that working conditions and book rules on workload should be laid down by law, but with our proposal No 61, we are making them the subject of national tripartite negotiations, while maintaining negotiations and laying the foundations for specific collective agreements in schools. By granting more rights to school leaders, a system should also be set up to enable them to be checked and replaced if necessary. We do not want fixed-term employment contracts for school leaders, which would leave them at the mercy of political attraction winds, but with proposal No 49 we propose that a system of periodic accreditation of directors should be established in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Ministry. It was completely unclear why the Ministry was opposed to this proposal as well. Of course, we are also completely unacceptable with the proposed concept of a class leader and the abolition of the class-leading fee, which would cause irreparable damage to the educational work in schools. The Ministry wishes to abolish the current procedure for the accreditation of teachers and the related grades. This is again an idea that is modern and could be supported if accreditation is replaced by a professional system. Unfortunately, the bill doesn't say a word about it. The professional system is left to the private pleasure of professional associations because the Ministry does not want to link it to the pay of teachers. In this way, we lose the motivation for self-improvement of existing teachers, without offering anything else to replace it. If we are of the opinion that it may not be necessary to link professional levels to a particular salary number, the funding of schools must also depend on the professionalism of teachers, otherwise we will have a system that simply does not work or does the opposite. By characterizing the entire bill as a whole, we can see that it was designed not to remove the substantive bottlenecks in upper secondary school education, but to ensure that the teachers' minimum wage was increased. Once again, a noble and necessary idea. However, the current minister thinks that the salaries of teachers are low in Estonia, not because the state does not give money, but because there are too many teachers and schools and because the municipalities spend education money elsewhere. It is precisely in order to combat these two evils that legislative changes have been created. The cornerstone of the ministerial ideology has become the teacher's salary, which has been torn out of the rest of the educational landscape and polished as a pillar of freedom. No one doubts that the low wages are the greatest troubles in our education system. The common sense, however, means the real salary that comes into the teacher's pocket, the aim of which is to ensure that the class is faced with motivated, authoritative professionals who are able to work with each student individually and to improve their knowledge. The Minister of Realist understands, however, the number of money written into the state budget, which he has traded from the Minister of Finance for the minimum wage of teachers and teachers only. Two pillars are foreseen to ensure this number of money. Some of the money needed is already taken from the pockets of poor municipalities and the second part is created by the organisation of the school network, which results in a thinning of the school network and a decrease in the number of teachers, but increases in the number of hours provided and in the number of pupils in schools and classes. How this will affect the development of each student's personality and the quality of school education and education is up to each listener to determine his or her life experience. I fear that, if the educational landscape is shaped like this, young people will not choose the profession of pedagogy, even if the teacher's nominal minimum wage should move closer to the average wage in the country. The purpose of this operation is to reject the responsibility and resentment for local governments and school leaders in case the teachers who perceive the lack of real wage growth start to strike next time. What are the consequences of the proposed changes to regional policy, the education system as a whole or to a specific student, the Ministry does not seem to be at all interesting. Of course, we cannot support a law built on such logic. The Estonian education system can only be helped by the actual increase in teachers' wages above the average wage of the state. This requires making education a real priority for the state budget, not just playing with words and figures and hoping that it could be increased by raising money from one pocket to another. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U701	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U702	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The main activity of Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, over the years of his minister, has been endless educational reforms, constant re-combination and cutting of education costs, and the clever disguise of this activity and black white speaking. It is strange to see how for years the government has been trying to raise teachers' salaries so that money does not have to add to the underfunded area. While the wider public perhaps thinks that the minister stands for better education and higher pay for teachers, teachers themselves have not believed what the Minister said for a long time, all the more so since for years the teachers have expressed their opinions directly to the minister, made written inquiries and much more, but none of them have been taken into account. Addressing the members of the Riigikogu yesterday was like the last cry of emergency. We have been asked to understand that this bill is such that it cannot be adopted as a law, as it will bring about very fundamental and harmful changes in the whole of education, particularly in relation to teachers and other school staff, school psychologists, special pedagogues, logos and social pedagogues, from the principles of their remuneration, working hours, duties and qualifications requirements to the organisation of their studies. These were the main issues in the opinion of the Alliance of Educational Workers, but the coalition naturally did not take their opinion into account and simply ran over it with a roller coaster, as has been the case in this house for years. It was only when the new basic school and upper secondary school law was passed a few years ago. It has barely become accustomed to this, and there has been a great deal of distrust in fulfilling the requirement of three courses of study, once the law is fundamentally amended again and the three main directions disappear at all. How can you trust such an activity? Who needs a half and raw law like that? The financing model was expelled from the law at the last moment because the coalition did not reach an agreement. Therefore, all issues relating to the financing of education are currently unclear. We don't know what's gonna happen in the fall either. But Aaviksoo demands, for four, the passing of a faulty bill and the adoption of a law, even at the cost of maintaining the government together. It's pretty sad comic to watch the government parties be forced, their teeth baptised, put up with each other. You can't hide this nervous atmosphere anymore. It's embarrassing. The strangest thing is to see how neither government party gives the other a chance to do something, because, for example, the money blockade is on. They say, "Yeah, raise teachers' salaries, but we don't give money to do that. Cut, take the money away from someone and accuse the local governments of carrying the money! ' Consider, for example, the so-called wage increase announced by Aaviksoo. The senior teacher, who is at the same time the head of the class, is now about 100 euros less paid. The minister's churning like he can. In today's Eesti Päevaleht interview, the minister, for example, answered the question about the abolition of class management fees, that this work is going on in the usual teaching work. However, in the morning interview of rain radio and also in the Question Time of the Riigikogu, he said that there is an urgent need to increase the fees for class management. It was interesting to read that, according to the Minister, the basic issue of financing schools was rather technical. It is a question of how detailed it should be with the financing model at all, perhaps it should be dealt with in very general terms. It was hard to expect a minister like that! Of course, the Centre Party is opposed to this bad and flawed bill. Under no circumstances can we agree that a 35-hour working week will be put in place for teachers and that it will no longer be determined exactly how many hours the teacher will actually have to face the class. We know that the teacher improves the work of the students, supervises the research work and does everything else. This results in overtime and overwork, with no extra money being paid. We are, of course, opposed to abolishing the current accreditation regime and, consequently, the pay gap. It is not clear how the work of support specialists will be financed. If this obligation is to be left to the municipalities with an already empty wallet, we are, of course, against it. The upper secondary school reform is also unclear. The establishment of state secondary schools is essentially at the expense of rural schools. As the country's preference is to fund state secondary schools, other schools find themselves in a very unequal situation. Let's just say, in time, they just disappear. If, in addition to the disappearance of post offices, pharmacies, shops and bank offices from the countryside, schools will be lost in the future, then that is all, uncompromising right-wingness has achieved its goal. I am voting against this bill because I am not in favour of endless educational reform and changes. I value the teacher as the salt of the land, but that law doesn't give the teacher confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U703	Thank you. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U704	I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U705	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U706	Amen! Please, Mr Enn Frontland! It's okay, Enn, we'll give you eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U707	As the independence of the state or Mother's Day, everything that relates to school education and school at all concerns us all, each of us, and not only us, but also our children. I also taught future teachers at the Tallinn Pedagogical Institute for seven years before broadcasting. I guess now it turns out that the words 'pedagogical' and 'pedagog' will soon be taboo. Although the main objective of the new law is to give schools and their leaders more freedom to organise educational life, many school leaders and teachers disagree with this statement. This is evidenced, among other things, by the opinions of many trade organisations and their leaders. Above all, there is opposition to the swift adoption of the law. Many members of the Riigikogu agree with this. After all, the text which was essentially unknown to the second reading of the Chamber of Riigikogu arrived. The amendments, however, have only been tabled by the Central Party Group of nearly one hundred, have been rejected by the Commission, and hardly here the great saalisk is going any differently today. Unfortunately, the background to this situation is the disagreements in the cabinet. However, it seems to the public that the rise in teachers' pay will prove to be a illusion and, sadder still, many rural schools are facing closure. The intention is to create new state secondary schools and to give them priority funding, which, in their opinion, puts all other schools in an unequal position. According to the draft law, the state undertakes to hold at least one upper secondary school in each county. The opposition of the Riigikogu has even been heard with such harsh criticism that the new basic school and upper secondary school law, in its current form, is devastating for teachers and municipalities. It is difficult to understand why the part of funding was left completely out of the debate on legislative changes, and it is only expected to come back to this in the autumn, after the adoption of the PGS. This is the case in our country and in a situation where the lack or lack of funding, or rather financial cover, is a concern for politicians and the people as a whole day after day. Many, especially the representatives of the chronically underfunded municipalities, are concerned that the financing of psychologists, special needs teachers, logos and social pedagogues will be entirely borne by the municipalities according to the draft. It is well known to everyone that for many, if not most of the smaller ones, this is too much because of previous budget cuts. Above all, however, children are suffering because support professionals disappear from many schools, as the draft provides that the financing of all support structures, as has been said, will remain a burden on the school manager in its entirety and therefore on the local government. There are also too many problems with general funding. The negotiating space will decrease or actually disappear and dedicated educational allocations will be set just to ensure a minimum level of teacher pay, the money will be allocated for school leaders and textbooks and workbooks, as well as 0.78 cents per child for school food. Therefore, for all the other educational expenditures that are still considered to be part of the estimated education support, local authorities must now look for their own resources. However, the list of their expenses is very long. These include class management, choir management, recognition of recreation teachers, support for special children, museum visits, participation in regional and national events, purchase of brushes, balls and many other educational resources needed in school hours. Unfortunately, the bill does not provide free school food for upper secondary school students. Nor does it recommend dealing with many problems related to the transition to Estonian-language education. The serious problems of their own are related to changes in the examination arrangements, which, fortunately, thanks to the amendments, have improved somewhat. A specific problem relates to state examinations. Now a few words about teachers and their concerns in the context of the new law. According to the draft law, teachers will be granted a working week with a total working time of 35 hours. However, it has not been specified how much of this constitutes direct training and training, or giving lessons. Unfortunately, the current 18 to 24 provision for the provision of a substance hour is abolished. It must be concluded that the workload of teachers will be much higher in the future, since if the load limit is lost, the teacher can also be sent to the class for 35 hours, which must be properly prepared. Overworking, possibly burnout, and a desire to change jobs will be haunted. Teachers do not agree with the idea of setting up a general-time salary that includes all the tasks. Only one minimum wage is to be set across the country. The abolition of the class-leading fee is a significant hindrance to this work, as it is not limited to observing and responding to school violence. It is quite dangerous to want to decouple the professional development of a teacher from his monthly salary. Better professional skills do not guarantee a higher salary, at least not automatically, which would actually make sense. I remember my school leaders, whom I highly appreciate today, perhaps even more than I did yesterday. It would be a shame if today's and tomorrow's students had less reason to remember their teacher in the future, especially the class manager, who is often even a mother, for the work they have done and for the hard work they have done. Against this background, I cannot support the basic school and upper secondary school law in its current form.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U708	The law states that at least one state gymnasium is created in each county. But what's the cost of finding the money for it? Will this money be found by collapsing the rest of the school network, or will there be additional resources in the country's budget strategy? I don't really believe that last one. How can a law be passed and a commitment made to the State if, at the same time, it is not known where the financial cover for these obligations will be found? I think it's completely strange. It is also very strange that the financial side of the bill has been separated. The law cannot be passed unless it has financial cover. Now I'm talking about what's really close to my heart. I have a senior teacher at home who happens to be a class teacher. I can't imagine how he could do all his work in 35 hours a week. In general, a teacher who respects his position and works with his soul spends at least two or three hours in the evening to check the work, prepare for lessons or complete himself. Now, if we subtract from 35 hours the hours he spends at home for all that, I wonder how many hours he could be in front of the class at all. Does the bill really provide for teachers to start repairing homework in their 35 hours in the schoolhouse, preparing lessons, leading the class, etc.? I can't imagine that. The presence of support specialists at school is particularly important at the moment. I know the situation that these families are in in in Estonia today. Support specialists are gold-worthy people who, to some extent, care for children who have lost their home care. Leaving support professionals unsure and unfunded is, in my opinion, a criminal offence. That's all for short. I cannot support the draft tabled in this form and hastily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U709	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U710	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I may be getting a little too personal now, but all the arguments have already been said, so maybe this personal experience will come in handy. I met Mr. Aaviksoo when I was editor-in-chief of the newspaper Stolits. Despite the fact that we are constantly hearing in this Chamber that Stolitsa is the voice of the Central Party, the members of the Andrus Ansip government gladly took the opportunity to express their views there. Each week, a few online interviews appeared and all ministers went there to give an interview. This is so that the questions will be collected from the readers, the minister will come and think for a long time before he answers. It usually takes quite a few hours. Mr. Aaviksoo showed up at 10 a.m. We had 23 questions, which took him exactly 46 minutes to answer. It was a total record. I've been a journalist for over 15 years, but it was a wake-up call for me. It was very clear to the person, he wasn't thinking at all. When he saw the question, he answered, shooting off his hip like that. Okay, black and white picture of the world. Then he shook his hand and put it away, back to his ministry. He was still the Secretary of Defense. Apparently, in the case of the Secretary of Defense, that's okay. When I now look at him as Minister of Education and Science, I always remember a good song with words like this (I am currently breaking the Rules of Procedure, but I cannot say it in Estonian): 'A and Ljublju vojennyh, Krasiõhhh, zdorovennyhhhh. " It's the impression that you can't have a dialogue with a person, it's just impossible. I read his interview today on the Estonian Daily Newspaper. I think we all read it. There was, for example, a claim that 96 principals supported this law with two hands. I couldn't find ten directors like this, even though I've been a deputy mayor, I have a pretty big network and I know who to ask. There was also a statement that teachers did not need rank. Elder educators, youth educators, Methodologists, are no longer in existence. You're starting to think that cops, tellers, ballerinas, lawyers, whoever has these "ranks," they're everywhere, only teachers don't need them. There's always more of these lies. In reply to my inquiry here in the Riigikogu, the honourable minister said that the language immersion in the Russian Upper Secondary School of Tapa works very successfully, and this is also proof that the mathematics exam scores were very good there. When I said that mathematics was taught there in Russian, the minister didn't even buy it. He's lying all the time, and it's not normal. I support with two hands what Mr Nestor said. Look, it's not normal for a person like that to take care of an education. I understand that this is a very personal speech, but I am convinced of everything that has been said. My youngest son goes to first class on September 1st. I've been talking to the parents of preschool kids. The kids are sent to school with fear. It is not normal that in an Estonian country that has been independent for 20 years, we do not know what awaits our children in three, five or ten years' time. I asked Urmas Klaas today if the reform would be completed. We heard everything he said, "We don't know, and we all learn. " You will learn at the expense of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U711	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U712	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, For a long time, I have wondered what had to be changed once again in terms of education laws. We usually do well. When we look at PISA tests, we see that Estonian education is completely competitive. In the world, our education is highly valued. But it turns out every two or three years, the urge to turn the education system upside down again. There are people who definitely have to get what they want, even though the cost can be very high. Gymnasiums with three courses of study were recently on the agenda. Many municipalities have already prepared for the transition to this system. Therefore, the plan was even to close some of the upper secondary schools, but now, oh, wonders, it turned out that this transition was no longer a legal obligation. But why is education reform now being carried out? In my opinion, the only reason is that there is no cover for funding education. As a result, smaller upper secondary schools and comprehensive schools will be closed. In my opinion, the way our education is now being financed is a very vivid indication of the lack of money. For example, 2% of the in-service training funding is already coming from the European Union's Structural Funds. The draft law provides for the establishment of support centres in the counties, where support specialists will probably be employed, both logo beets and special teachers who will travel around the county. I don't know what they're going to drive, either the bus or something else. I can't imagine how a support specialist can be separated from school because the support specialist is specifically related to the student and to solving its problems. In my opinion, one of the major concerns is that this draft law will be another blow to the autonomy of the local government. I would like to see a municipality refusing to establish a state secondary school on its territory. It's so tempting, isn't it? With state money, the school house is fixed and maintained. It's a big victory for the local government. But should this be done in such a way that local governments are not taken into account in the construction and financing of state secondary schools? For example, there are already municipalities where state secondary schools have been created and the state has assumed this responsibility. These municipalities, for example, will win millions of euros over a period of five years compared to the municipalities where the state secondary school should be created. It's a reality. How should municipal upper secondary schools be delivered alongside these state secondary schools? It's just not possible. A powerful state comes with its own money, builds a fancy school, finances everything from scratch to the end, and then the local government with its own resources or with the resources of the municipalities from which the children who go to school should compete with the state. Is this the country where we want to live and ensure equal education for all children? In fact, this means that if, for example, the state gymnasium is to come to Põlvamaa, I hope that it will come after the next elections, because the political situation is not such that it can come there now, then in no more than two or three years, the rest of the county gymnasiums will be shut down. I can predict that. Later, you can check the verbatim record to see that I've made such a prediction. You don't have to be a big specialist for this prophecy. What's strange is that the law will be passed, but it doesn't know what the cost of this law is. I come back to the construction and maintenance of state secondary schools. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U713	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U714	The only glimpse of hope in this sad story is today's promise by the leaders of the factions of the government coalition that the government will not only come to the Riigikogu during the autumn season with the draft amendment to § 82 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, i.e. with the draft amendment to the section of the Finance Act, but with the draft amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act as a whole, which will allow us to reopen the debate and make proposals on the remaining outstanding or missolved issues. Then we may be able to discuss seriously whether it is possible to build a hopeful future for Estonian education by moving a small amount from one pocket to another and then blaming the municipalities for the introduction of teachers' salaries. Education and educated people are one of the key issues of our people's survival. I am convinced that it is high time for the Estonian rulers to look in the mirror and ask themselves which country and education we are prepared to pay for as a society. But in conclusion, we cannot, of course, support a strange, incomplete and unquality bill like the one before us today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U715	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There's been a lot of talk about education here tonight. I will speak a little bit of parliamentaryism before I hope to get to education. I believe it is quite natural that such a large draft will arrive in Parliament from the government, but it is equally natural that once this bill has arrived in this house, Parliament will still take the matter into its own hands. Quite a number of years ago, the law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu was amended in such a way that the participation of ministers in the second reading of the drafts was abolished in plenary. This was still done so that Parliament would not act as the rubber stamp of the government, but as a legislator, but it turned out, of course, as always, even worse. In the initial and mid-stage stages of the procedure of the draft before us today, I dare say, the lead committee did indeed work in such a way that the sweat bull in the forehead, but in the final stage, the process has been a real farce that ridicules parliamentary democracy. If the members of the commission, not to mention other members of the Riigikogu, have no idea what the text of this law will be in its final form only a day and a half before the end of the second reading of the draft, it is not parliamentary democracy. If, on Monday of this week, during which the draft is to be adopted as a law, the members of the commission must sit with their hands on a large part of the Commission's official working time and wait for the chairman of the committee to return from the government meeting with the instructions of the government to Parliament, this is not normal parliamentary democracy either. By doing so, we will never be rid of the reputation of the government rubber stamp. But it seems to me that the power coalition seems to have a relationship with the reputation of this rubber stamp, about the same as Pippi Longsuck had with the freckles: he did not suffer under them, but rather enjoyed them. As has already been said here many times, the government finally withdrew from the draft with a great deal of death a part of financing school education, or separated the jacket from the button. You could say he pushed his jacket into his fall session tomorrow. Quite awkwardly little was left, and this too is largely inappropriate or at least very questionable. I asked the Commission's rapporteur what is the most important parameter for monitoring, measuring and evaluating the improvement of which, following the adoption of the draft act, we can monitor, measure and assess whether these are changes in the quality or availability of education, in the pay of teachers or in the working conditions of teachers or in the learning environment. But the answer to deny it was quite general. It was about the need to clarify the procedures for state examinations, greater flexibility to allow school holidays and so on. That's a little low. I tend to agree with Margit Timakov, Chairman of the Board of the Teachers' Association, who wrote in Postimees that if the law needs to be quickly passed only in order that children in the 12th grade in the autumn would know what is required of them in the coming spring exams, then the government would have to look in the mirror and admit that these students should have known correctly by entering the 10th grade in the fall of autumn. There has been a lot of talk here about problems that the draft does not solve, but rather increases. I will therefore stop talking about teachers' working time and classroom training. However, I would like to recall, and unfortunately not with a good word, the most recent member of the Riigikogu, he is a member of the IRL, as well as the Minister of Education's press release yesterday, in which he fought about the criticism of the Social Democrat Bill. This press release states that 29 institutions, associations and people have submitted proposals and opinions on the draft, including the Estonian Educational Workers' Association, the Estonian Parents' Association, the Estonian Cities Association, the Estonian Association of Rural Governments and the Estonian Teachers' Association. Yes, they have submitted them, but the cleverly formulated press release, of course, does not say anything about how many of these legitimate stakeholders' proposals have found their way into the draft in its current form. Involvement, when invited to the room and then pretended to listen, but nothing is heard, is not inclusion in a European sense. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U716	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U717	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U718	This leads to the conclusion that a shortage of support specialists may arise in the future, as has been the case in other areas, such as nurses. The next theme is the separation of primary school and upper secondary school and the nationalisation of upper secondary school. This means restructuring whole school education, which not only brings about conflicts with local authorities, but actually involves administrative reform due to the reorganisation of the education system. Are local authorities ready to do so, and do they agree to losing upper secondary school and perhaps losing school as a whole in the future? However, this draft does not intend to take into account the perception or position of local governments; it will not look at them at all in the future as partners. This separation also creates very intense redeployment among teachers. Stronger people start teaching in upper secondary schools, which severely weakens primary school, which in turn raises problems in upper secondary schools. It's a full circle. How do you get rid of this circle after? Finally, the proposed draft would need to be further processed and dealt with together with all the parts relating to this area. Otherwise, in the future, we will face the problems that this bill will create if it becomes a law in that form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U719	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Gräzin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U720	Ladies and gentlemen, The subject of my speech is the 26th Amendment, which talks about textbooks and one of the problems they pose. The future should be such that the publisher issues the textbook and makes it either a PDF file or a file in some other format, which can now be used to pay attention to the portal held by the Ministry of Education and Research. The good news is this portal isn't yet, and it won't be coming in any time soon, but there's an idea. What's wrong with that? The bad news is that after the textbook is available on the Ministry of Education and Research portal, the publisher will not receive any more money for it, because the school will not buy 10, 15 or 20 copies of the textbook if it is available as a file, at least in the form that it can only be printed or so on. However, the trick of this paragraph is that, strictly speaking, it is not even legally pirated copying, because copyright is theoretically retained by the author, although it cannot be carried out as an author. In other words, intellectual property is confiscated or nationalised. Why would I need that as an author? I won't! That's it, that's it! But if you don't, as Amendment 26 says, my textbook doesn't get into the book. Thanks to the fact that we have managed to draw attention to this, the bill now says that it does not have to be in the register in order for the school to use the textbook. In short, copyrights remain as they are. When you read Amendment 26, it seems that this is the case. However, if you read page 8 of the explanatory memorandum, I am no longer so sure. In other words, current improvements will allow copyright to be confiscated free of charge. It says here that the Ministry of Education and Research and the publisher of teaching literature will be agreed upon in this transfer. But what kind of deal are we talking about? Just think that we have a monopoly seller, Eesti Energia. We know what happened to it. It's exactly the same thing, but backwards, the monopolistic joint venture with the Ministry of Education and Science is happening. He buys this right for one euro and that's it. There are two very important things that colleagues have talked about, especially those who receive information from the Ministry of Education and Research, who have contacts there. They say it must be interpreted as meaning that it is not mandatory to be in the book of study literature. Good for you! If it is not mandatory, it will have to be written into this law peacefully in the future. Secondly, it must be ensured that entry in the register does not give any competitive advantage in the textbook market, but in the wider sense, in any form of teaching material. There's some sort of substitution going on here. In the case of teaching material, the content that we teach is important. Its contents, as we know, can be cut on a stone board, for example. People learned well during stone tablets. The papyrus was okay, the book was okay, the computer was okay, it didn't matter. The important thing is that there's knowledge and there's the ministry. However, we reject the Ministry, it is not the Ministry, but it is a monopoly buyer, the same as fish collectors in Hiiu's shallows. So, here's the monopolistic buyer. In terms of the market, the exchange may not take place. The question is, is it really that bad written in here? The proposed amendment is ambiguous, but, according to the explanatory memorandum, this provision is dangerous. I want to reassure the opposition. You're very nervous, and I get it. I was nervous too, but I kind of calmed down at the end. When I began to think about § 82, which will be dealt with immediately anyway, it became clear that so many things change that it does not really matter what the law is now. You vote like that or you vote like that... [[The cavalry.]] What?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U721	Sorry, this is not the time for dialogue!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U722	That's a good question. Why are we doing this here? This is where we learn! It didn't work out until relatively recently when I started thinking about it. I want it to be clear that everything that concerns teaching literature must be arranged in such a way as to guarantee the rights of publishers and, most importantly, textbook authors, of their very own method teacher. The rights of those who are the best and smartest representatives of our pedagogical community. Finally, I have to say I'm sorry Mikhail Stalnukhin left. He spoke of this triangle: Amsterdam, Berlin, etc. I would have drawn his attention to the fact that Fonvizin has such a work as 'Abstinence', which says, 'In order to travel from Tambov to Tuula, there is no need to know anything, it is sufficient for you to have a man of the rounds. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U723	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Neeme the Great! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U724	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I guess we should figure out why we're doing all this here this night. In my speech, I rely, like many previous speakers, on the positions of the Estonian Federation of Educational Workers. However, this is the largest organisation of teachers and other educational staff in Estonia, who has also addressed the members of the Riigikogu separately, in the hope that the opinion of the teachers or, by the newest definition, the directors, lecturers, teachers and support staff will be heard. According to the Estonian educational staff, the draft will bring about major and fundamental changes in the whole of education, especially for all teachers and the support and support staff of schools. Changes in the principles of remuneration, working time, duties, qualifications requirements and organisation of studies take place. There are three factors that the educational staff consider important. First of all, they consider that the teacher's rules on working time should also set a maximum limit on full-time training due to the specific nature of the teacher's work. If it is only determined that the teacher has 35 hours a week, this creates uncertainty for the teachers. They do not know how long their hours are and what their duties are. The initiators and guardians of the draft act stress the responsibility of the Director for the organisation of studies at school and the trust of the teacher and the director. At some points, it may seem that reducing the conditions laid down by law and placing greater emphasis on the decision-making power of the Director are in line with the principle of subsidiarity. However, the concept of proximity has been misused here. Proximity, or subsidiarity, does not mean that everything at local level is undefined and that the local decision-maker determines all aspects. There are certain fundamental rights, they are fundamental constitutional rights, civil rights or human rights. Such a debate has often taken place in this Chamber when there has been talk of standard-setting for public services provided by local authorities. It has been considered that the definition of certain service standards would, as if, undermine the right of municipalities to decide independently. Yeah, that's it. It will, but it is about ensuring the fundamental rights of people and the uniform availability of public services. The municipality cannot be free in its decisions here. Why am I bringing such a parallel? Because it is similar to the current situation when dealing with legislative changes. The advocates of the bill stress that the head of school must be given the opportunity to decide and we should not be afraid to give more powers to school leaders. We are not afraid of this, but the solution lies in the fact that decisions taken under restricted conditions are being pushed onto the shoulders of school managers and school leaders. There is no more comfortable situation for senior managers of the education system than if it were possible to blame the local government and the school manager for all the troubles. A school manager who sets the upper limit of lessons, the status of a class manager and his/her remuneration, and all other important and less important aspects of the school's organisation of work. However, such a strategy is not linked to the principle of subsidiarity. When we talk about a more precise definition of teacher's working time, it is more about the safety of the teaching community under the labour law. An employee-employer relationship is not left solely dependent on the employer's will and the outcome of the negotiations. If that were the case, we would have no labour laws at all. An application by educators for a more precise determination of working time can be considered, in particular, to be of employment law, to seek greater security and uncertainty in the work of the teacher. According to § 29 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the conditions of employment are controlled by the State. The emphasis on the decision-making of the Director should not make the organisation of school life any special category outside the scope of the Constitution. It is obviously not enough to set a limit on working time alone, the state should not leave teachers without the protection of labour law, and the introduction of working conditions should at least make collective bargaining a clear subject, as the Socialist proposal provides. I would also like to highlight another aspect that education workers consider important. They have pointed out that their organization strongly opposes the abolition of a separate fee for the work of a class manager. There is a certain number of basic competences that the community hopes to develop in school. These basic competences form part of a certain social order. As an educational institution, the school is known to develop three types of social quality: knowledge, skills and attitudes. Our education system offers fact-based education, we do not know enough about social competences, or we do not consider it necessary. A class manager's work in his class is one way to develop students' social competences. Especially in primary and primary school stages, a parent expects the school environment to be safe first, then to have good children raised there, and then to have smart children. This is a social subscription to the school, which, unfortunately, differs greatly from the spirit of the national curriculum. The older and more independent the child becomes, the more the parent hopes that the developing young person will receive high-quality knowledge and a good position for further studies. It is at primary and primary school level that the role of the head of the classroom is particularly important in the school. Making the position and role of a class manager merely an internal issue of the school clearly weakens the position of the school as an institution developing social competences in society. While we spoke earlier about knowledge, skills and attitudes, the changes currently being addressed will result in the school becoming a frying, highly economical and minimal body offering a knowledge package with which the community is unlikely to be satisfied. This school should not be satisfied with this composition of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U725	Thank you. Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U726	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Today's Bill 340 has been presented at length and in depth by the Commission, with further questions on it, but there are still a lot of loose ends, questions and ambiguities. Reemo Voltri, Chairman of the Management Board of the Estonian Federation of Educational Workers, which came to all of us, has been quoted here a great deal today. I think this letter deserves to be written in a verbatim report for the sake of history. That is why I am making these statements here. The Estonian Federation of Educational Workers, the largest organisation that unites teachers and other educational staff in Estonia, has indeed turned to all of us 101 members of the public. They have highlighted the following concerns and principles. The draft will bring about major and fundamental changes in the whole of education. This is particularly true for all teachers and school support and support staff. Their remuneration principles, working hours, duties, qualifications requirements and organisation of studies will be changed. Now I quote: 'We consider it important to emphasise our views once again. 1. We continue to believe that the teacher's working time regulation should also include a maximum limit on full-time learning due to the specifics of teacher work. The definition of teacher working time in just 35 hours per week creates uncertainty for teachers in the definition of working time and duties. We believe that there should be a national upper limit for full-time teachers (18 lessons per week on the EHL proposal, 16 lessons per week for composite classes) to avoid teacher overwork and a fall in the quality of the whole learning process. This amendment, which would no longer set a limit on lessons, puts the teacher at risk of having to do more work for the same money, and in worse cases, for example, instead of a maximum of 24 lessons so far, the teacher will have to give 30 hours, plus, of course, the time to improve the preparation and the work, etc. There's no way it can fit into 35 hours of general work. Studies carried out by the EHL show that the teacher is already working more than 50 hours a week if the teacher can teach up to a maximum of 24 lessons. 2. The teacher shall be provided with a salary corresponding to the general period, which shall include the performance of all the duties. Only one minimum rate of pay is set at national level. The teacher's monthly earnings are also currently covered by the current basic school and upper secondary school law and the Employment Contracts Act, for all the work done by the teacher, which, on a full-time basis, the teacher has 35 hours per week [---]. At present, the Government of the Republic Regulation sets minimum rates of pay for 4 teachers nationwide according to the grades awarded to the teacher for the assessment of qualifications and, separately, the minimum rates for class management fees. The amendments retain only one minimum rate of pay covering both class management fees and other tasks. The EHL is opposed to the introduction of only one minimum rate of pay, as it does not motivate teachers to develop themselves and apply for higher qualifications and grades. 3. We strongly oppose the abolition of the separate remuneration for the work of the head of class. The amendments to the PGS are intended to abolish a separate fee for the performance of the duties of the class manager. This step is dangerous given the importance of the role of class manager in the social development of our young people, support for learning, etc. ' The Educational Workers' Association hopes that the members of the Riigikogu will listen and respect these principles. That's why I thought it was necessary to present them here. We have talked a lot about teachers' work, less about students. The National Audit Office's report pointed out that only 85 municipalities have child protection workers who are already unable to do this work. The proposal also provides for the inclusion of the tasks of a social pedagogue for a child welfare worker or a social worker. This is definitely not the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U727	Thank you. Please, colleague Aadu Black! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U728	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Already 40 years ago, as a young schoolteacher, a simple wisdom was taught: The lesson must be given in such a way that the listeners are able to accept what is being offered. It seems to me that, at this late hour, there is no point in talking about paragraphs (a lot has already been said), percentages or trigonometry tasks where cities have been triangled. It is likely that as a common noise background, we will all miss our ears. That's why I'm starting with a good idea borrowed from a living classic. A longtime rector of the University of Tartu, our recent colleague in the Committee on Culture, means that a colleague from the previous season Peeter Tulviste once spoke about educational reform, telling a story about two villagers. The father and son discussed how to repair the thin roof of their broken cynic hut. The son said: "You know, Father, today the sun shines, it is warm and dry, which we will repair from the empty one. " At that, Father said: " But tomorrow it will rain suddenly, and it will be bad to fix the roof in the rain. " So they discussed the matter. The moral of the story is that it is not worth leaving education reform without rain or in bad times. I am now translating this parable into a common Estonian language: changing the PGS has not fallen into a good time. Old wisdom says that any reform, even one designed simply to save a lot of money in the future, still requires money. If there is no money and there is no reform without the necessary tools to repair the roof, then it happens that good ideas can be wasted and made a laughing stock, but then the culprit will be found who has made such a stupid reform. With this reform, we have reached repairing the roof in rainy weather. Our PGS is actually worse than the villagers' cynic roof. In addition, we have a neighbour who promised to cut the chips for roof repair because, you know, the roof cannot be repaired if there is no material. The neighbor said he'd bring those chips in with his horse. But now I don't even know if he meant cutting chips to cut them or what he meant. It is explained that this means a strange situation in which the same basic school and upper secondary school law has started to organise the school network without anyone being able to do more with the administrative reform than talk nicely about it. This is the second time this has happened. During the previous composition of the Riigikogu, the administrative reform was also attempted in the framework of the PGS. Maybe the Ministry of Education and Research is so brave and can do it. This is, of course, a very difficult task. However, it may happen that the school network is suddenly getting somewhere, at least in the way it suits the ministry, but the rest of the country and society are not at all satisfied with this administrative reform. Now for the funding. The separation of funding from the rest of the law has been done quite several times here. It could be spoken in this same figurative language, speaking of education as a burden on a wagon and a proud horse carrying it. But now it's like it's halfway through education. The cart and the load are still there, but the horse is no longer ahead, and we are planning what to put on a cart without a horse and how that cart should move. But we don't know until autumn what kind of a pig gets in the way and how much weight he can carry. Maybe there'll be a good Tori stallion, maybe a goat or a kangaroo, but maybe a camel or the same elephant that died in Narva. So we are in a situation where it is not clear how much resources there are when talking about the fees for class management or anything else. It is not clear what the role of local government is. It has been said repeatedly here that this role is likely to be very large and is too much for the municipality. It is not known what everything needs to be financed from the 20% that had to be the incentive fund that the director can use. We don't know how much and what there's enough money for. Maybe the director will finally have to pay for God knows what specialists and other fees. Even now, Tartu and Tallinn's schoolmasters are concerned that this 20% going to the incentive fund does not really mean that their real wages will fall. Of course, there are many problems and, fortunately, they have been mentioned. There have been talks about school areas, class management fees and support services, about different aspects of educational life. I want to talk about publishing textbooks, too. Today, a publisher asked me if it would be wise not to take action in this area. What's this about? He explained that the reason was the requirement that educational materials should also be placed on the Ministry's portal. Illustrations licences are then more expensive than paper-based publications, etc. I see the clock is ticking and the evening hour is late. I won't tell the fairy tale anymore. But the fact that this bill is incomplete and the crappy thing to come back to when the horse is found in front of the wagon is true. All this must be said again, and these issues must be reopened. That's how sad the situation is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U729	Thank you. Please, Mr Karel Knight! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U730	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Estonia must, of course, contribute more to education and science. The claims of those who are in favour of changes in our education system can also be considered legitimate, but this, of course, if the aim is to significantly improve the quality of education. To the eager supporters of the reforms, I would like to remind you of the wisdom of the old people: nine times measure and cut once. In the light of all this, constant haste and endless restructuring in the educational landscape make it cautious. It is becoming quite common that every minister of education wants to leave a mark on the educational landscape, not just a mark, but a very deep mark. As a small people, we must protect the existence of equal opportunities at all costs in education policy, with the aim of getting a good education anywhere in Estonia. Estonia needs a direction that can bridge the gap between the state and people and offer an alternative to both primitive right-wingism and populists who rely on people's disappointment and bitterness. Estonian education needs a smart, modern and balanced policy. The Finnish Social Democrat Minister for Education Krista Kiuru recently acknowledged at the General Assembly of Social Democrats that inequality has a detrimental effect on society, which is a source of distrust. A solidarity-based and cohesive society is better able to cope with the crisis. In the Nordic countries, including Finland, studies show that people's mutual trust is one of the highest in the world. In times of crisis, solidarity societies have been able to provide their people with subsistence and assistance of any kind. In the Finnish education system, the principle is that students should receive exactly the same level of education throughout schools. It has been a historical choice of Finland, which has worked so far. Finland faces the challenge of levelling the quality of school education so that parents can dare to put their children in a school close to home. On the basis of the draft in progress, however, the politicians of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association and the Reform Party have chosen a different path. This is the path of elite schools, but it does not put schools and students on an equal footing. Powerful state secondary schools and poor municipal secondary schools, or children's destiny, are once again determined according to which family or region they are born into. The Finnish Minister of Education stated that they think of every child as a future Head of State or founder of Nokia. Every child's talent needs to be moved forward. Every student's right to receive a good education is fought for. Finnish education policy, based on equality between children, young people and schools, has been one of the best choices of Finnish society. The Finnish education system pays a great deal of attention to initial and basic education. In the Committee on Culture, discussions on the new draft law on basic school and upper secondary school have lasted for the last six months. However, the chairman of the committee should be asked to explain what has caused the haste of the last few days, because there are really many loose ends left here. Can we support a draft that has been made again in violation of common sense and democratic standards? The final text of the draft, which came to second reading today, has not been seen before by the majority of the MPs. Good members of the coalition! Such parliamentary democracy cannot and must not be trampled on. I believe that, before progress is made with the draft, any proposed changes, including their possible impact, must, of course, be thoroughly examined in the final decision, taking into account the proposals and expectations of the stakeholders. The draft under discussion does not provide any certainty or clarity as to who specifically finances what is financed, how much funding, what burden is left on local authorities after reforms, and how much must the whole system state ultimately contribute. The new draft law on basic school and upper secondary school has a direct impact on the quality and accessibility of education and on the salaries of educators, as well as on the subsistence of municipalities and their ability to fulfil their obligations under the law. As a member of the Social Democratic Party, I cannot agree with the situation where, with the entry into force of the bill as a law, the state will start to strangle the schools of small towns and settlements in the counties as well as some upper secondary schools in the county centre. From the point of view of regional policy and equal opportunities, we need to make sure that the new law does not create educational stratification and, due to restructuring, many young people do not simply lose access to education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U731	Thank you very much. Eiki Nestor, colleague of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U732	Dear Ene Ergma! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, who have stayed in the hall! Listening here today to the committee chairman's answers to the questions and reading the draft text, I found a major error in the draft law submitted by the Government of the Republic. Indeed, our regulations require that the draft explanatory memorandum mention the draft authors, but I have a firm conviction that one author has not been mentioned this time. The explanatory memorandum should also have written that the draft has been prepared by Czech glassmakers. I'm sorry I can't remember the name of this company at this late hour! I fully recognise the work of the Riigikogu Commission, which has tried to get some kind of light on in this pillar, so that this thing more or less turns out. The text that is now before us does not bear witness to this work. I hope in my heart that the promise of the leaders of the two groups supporting the power union will come true, which somewhat took the tension off, that these issues will be returned in the autumn. What we are doing today is, in short, a great folly. I would be very pleased if a party that normally thinks reasonably about Estonia would think that perhaps by then the person responsible for all of this could change. I think he has already failed several times as a minister, for the simple reason that he does not have the basic competence to listen to a politician. You can't make laws like this. Why am I saying this? In fact, it is no big secret that we spend produced wealth on education like other countries with a reasonable amount, even more than many others. These costs include provisions for the quality of education, i.e. the pay of teachers and everything else, and expenditure on buildings on the other hand. This distribution is out of place, i.e. we spend relatively more than others to keep the infrastructure running. This bill seeks to find ways of spending more on the quality of education, by finding money from the same amounts that we are currently spending for the quality of education. Now that's impossible, so you can't do it. There's no way to find that money. Two aspects are most clear to me in this draft: the issues of pay and working time. Look, we can discuss here whether teachers can have one, two, three, four or five grades. In fact, it may not even be so much for us to answer that question. However, with the wording that the Czech glassmakers have written in § 76 and where the Commission has not changed anything, the opportunity to discuss will be taken away. By the way, the Collective Contract Act, to which we are referring, does not spell out to anyone in Estonia that if wage rates are agreed, how many of them must exist and what can be imposed on anyone. We do not say this to doctors, seafarers or bus drivers, nor to anyone else. Here, however, it is clearly and unambiguously stated that education has one minimum wage. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U733	Even if the parties to the agreement mentioned here come together and consider that these minimum rates could be two, three, four, five or six, they will not be able to impose them. The person who wrote Article 76 has never negotiated a salary. He could go there once, then he'd rewrite that section. It's exactly the same with working hours. It is possible to discuss whether a law level should determine the number of hours, when a teacher gives lessons, and when he does other work. Maybe it makes sense if it's done somewhere else, but then you could clearly say in the law where it is agreed. Due to the wording we are discussing and voting on here today, the following situation may arise. In fact, a teacher who is now in a high position can start working for a minimum wage by giving the class 35 hours a week, improving notebooks and tests, and doing other work at other times and without any money. That's the kind of trouble I think it's, if you'll excuse me, the impertinence, above all, of the teachers. I have been listening to this debate for a long time, and I know that in our education arrangements, it would be reasonable to move forward from a situation that kind of interferes with us, namely that we have elite schools and then other schools. When this law is passed, if you'll excuse me, we'll have public schools and these other schools. This law has not moved forward in any way by ensuring that all Estonian children receive a proper education anywhere in Estonia, wherever they go to school. That's not the chance we're expecting. On the contrary, some form of stratification is created, and there is no mention of reasonable educational arrangements. So, colleagues from the IRL, wherever you are now, replace your minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U734	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U735	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U736	Thank you. Let's do it. A procedural question. Is it Kaia Iva or Margus Tsahkna, which?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U737	Yes, I very much like this amendment, it has been tabled by the Committee on Culture and we want to take full account of it, but sometimes we have to take longer breaks. Ten-minute break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U738	Dear colleagues, the intermission requested by the IRL Group has ended. We are on Amendment 40. I shall put to the vote the 40th amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 39 votes to 49 members of the Riigikogu, 1 member of the Riigikogu abstention. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 41 has been tabled by the lead committee. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U739	Got it. I'm declaring recess. The hearing will be resumed at 3.56 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U740	Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 6, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. 37 votes for and against 48 members of the Riigikogu. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 7 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U741	Thank you. I would like to ask for the seventh amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U742	Thank you! Let's do it. I shall put to the vote Amendment 7, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. By 37 and against 50 members of the Riigikogu. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 8 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U743	Thank you. I would like to ask for the eighth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U744	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 8, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. 87 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed, 1 member of the Riigikogu abstention. The amendment was supported. Amendment 9 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U745	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U746	Thank you. Let's do it. Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 9, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. By 38 and against 50 members of the Riigikogu. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 10 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Amendment 12 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 14 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be taken into account in substance. Amendment 15 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Amendment 16 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 17 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 18 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be taken into account in substance. Amendment 19 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U747	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U748	Thank you! Let's do it. Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 19, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 38 votes to 47 members of the Riigikogu, 1 member of the Riigikogu abstention. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 20 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Amendment 21 has been tabled by the Committee on Culture. Amendment 22 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the commission is that this amendment should be taken into account in substance. Amendment 23 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the commission is that this amendment should be taken into account in substance. Amendment 24 has been tabled by the lead committee. The 25th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. The 26th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee after the debate and its view is that this proposal should be fully taken into account. The 27th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. The 28th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 29 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the commission is that this amendment should be taken into account in substance. Amendment 30 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be fully taken into account. Amendment 31 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. The 32nd amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The 33rd amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the commission is that this amendment should be taken into account in substance. The 34th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The 35th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the commission is that this amendment should be taken into account in substance. The 36th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. 37th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U749	Please vote on Amendment 37.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U750	Thank you! Let's do it. I shall put to the vote Amendment 37, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 50 votes to 28 members of the Riigikogu with 5 abstentions. The amendment was supported. Amendment 38 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 39 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the commission is that the amendment should be fully taken into account. Amendment 40 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U751	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U752	This amendment was asked to be voted on, but we are asking for a five-minute break before this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U753	Thank you. I'm declaring recess. The hearing will be resumed in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U754	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair in Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U755	Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech, I would like to focus on a subject which I do not believe has been sufficiently discussed in the discussions on this draft so far. We have discussed the question that, in the spirit of this draft, basic school and upper secondary school should be divided into separate institutions, which, of course, also have a separate budget. The reason for this change is clear: children have been significantly reduced over the last two decades and therefore certain changes to the school network will certainly have to be made. The question is whether the financial strangulation that is currently foreseen is the right way to do it. We have discussed in depth the impact of separation between upper secondary and primary schools on so-called elementary schools. In my opinion, we can clearly see that outside the metropolitan area, upper secondary school education becomes a luxury that most municipalities cannot afford. However, I would like to draw attention to these medium-sized cities in Estonia, where there are now two full cycle upper secondary schools, one in Estonian and the other in Russian. For example, I can mention Stone Oil, Blackwater, Paldiski and Maardu. As a result of the shortage of students, it is already difficult for these municipalities to maintain two upper secondary schools. The planned changes in funding, the content of which has now been postponed into autumn, will in principle make it impossible for local governments to maintain both upper secondary schools in Estonian and Russian at the same time. In educational economics, the most logical decision in this situation would have been to close the Russian-language upper secondary school and direct the children of the Russian-language comprehensive school to the Estonian-language upper secondary school. Russian-language upper secondary schools must teach at least 60% of courses in Estonian as of 2011. In view of the limited resources, it is understandable that the municipality makes such a decision. However, serious consideration should be given to whether such an educational economic decision is also the best educational decision. Russian-language children are directed to study in the same classes as Estonian-language children. If the level of teaching of the Estonian language of Russian-language comprehensive schools were good, it would not be worth making a bigger number of it, but unfortunately this is not the case at the moment. The median result of the 2011 Estonian language exam of the Russian Gymnasium in Kiviõli at the end of the ninth grade was 48 points, and 50 points at the Paldiski Russian Gymnasium. This means that the students' knowledge of the Estonian language was clearly below level B1, which the Ministry of Education and Research has set as a benchmark in order to be able to study in Estonian at upper secondary school. Social Democrats have repeatedly said that level B1 is not enough to study in Estonian at upper secondary school. The question therefore arises as to how children who have graduated from Russian comprehensive school can continue education in their city if, as a result of the changes to be made, they are unable to study even partially in their mother tongue in upper secondary school. Can the Estonian-language schools of these municipalities and the teachers of these schools cope with a large number of students who actually do not speak Estonian at a sufficient level in order to study in Estonian in upper secondary school? Can teachers actually integrate these children into the Estonian-language school environment? I'll take two more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U756	Two minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U757	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 5 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. There are 38 votes against and 50 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 6 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U758	I would like to vote on Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U759	It is clear that the successful implementation of such changes will require the help of both the state and local authorities, which will allow the differences in the language skills of students to be levelled out. It is necessary to ensure that support services are provided for those who do not manage well enough in another language environment, to have real opportunities for integrating pupils speaking different native languages and to have bilingual teaching tools available. In addition, there is a separate question with a city like Maardu, where several times fewer students study in Estonian gymnasium than in Russian. In educational economics, it would be right to close the Estonian-language gymnasium in this city and direct young people with Estonian-language language to the Russian gymnasium. The situation is similar in Narva. What am I saying? These are complex educational policy issues, which certainly cannot be resolved from an educational economic point of view. On the contrary, this educational economy, if you could call it that, can produce results that the legislator certainly does not want. I hope that the Committee on Culture will pay particular attention to this aspect when the model for financing school education is discussed this autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U760	Thank you. I ask for Kajar Lemberi in the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U761	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, of course, we must acknowledge and welcome the many members of the coalition who sit in the hall or in their rooms and have certainly received a lot of new information during the procedure for this bill and maybe start to wonder which button to press. But when we talk about processing this bill, we cannot get over and around democracy and inclusion. Minister Aaviksoo's high-flying pressure and squirrel tails dragon will be forced upon those in this room today after the adoption of the PGS. This is done in the passions of the opposition and as if to justify something of their own. The minister only announced yesterday in this Chamber that how we understand it is our business, but he understands the bill differently in any case. Classic. Historic memory also remembers that there was once a prime minister on this board who, in response to the repeated complaints of the MP that he did not receive an answer to his question, announced solemnly that what the ambassador was asking was a vigilante's matter, but what the Prime Minister answers is the Prime Minister's matter. It may, of course, be right when looking down from a high point of view, but it is sad that the same rhetoric is used in this very hall 15 years later, and it seems to be normal for the government to communicate with the ambassadors. By paraphrasing a fine statement from our childhood, the Minister of Education often does not know what the Minister of Defence has not learned. The high-flying pillar project was run against the wall years ago, but now a much more broad-based area involving a large number of people has been taken up, and they want to cross this hall with the same crusade. Where is common sense and a democratic process of inclusion in this long-dated bill? Yes, all kinds of interest groups are involved, they've been heard, but it turns out they haven't been heard. In addition, today there is a text at second reading, which most of the people in this Chamber have never seen before, and the Committee on Culture could only see it yesterday. This text, by the way, has not only an educational policy effect but also a clear regional policy effect. These effects will occur in years' time and then it will probably be quite difficult to turn it all back. I cannot be silent if the patronizing message of the minister is that all municipalities in Estonia are rehops and teachers' wages are low in Estonia only because the municipality does not use the money correctly. The state, in the Minister's opinion, contributes enough, just teachers and schools we have too much, and municipalities spend education money somewhere else instead. This bill also makes such a ridiculous move that the term 'pedagog' is replaced by 'teacher' in the text of the law. National responsibility for support specialists, logopaedics, psychologists and specialised pedagogues is excluded. It is precisely for these 'pestors' or non-teachers that the municipality has intended to give this money, but the Minister's message is that it is a distributed teacher's salary. If the concept of assistant teachers or teachers' help disappears from the new text of the law, then rich municipalities may somehow be able to pay these employees differently, but poorer municipalities will certainly find it more difficult and they will simply give up support services. The teacher does not actually get paid, but some of the students lose the service they need. This is, in my opinion, a simple summary of this draft. In addition, of course, it is that class management is accommodated in normal load, etc. There are plenty of concerns, but the finger is pointing at the opposition, because we, like, are holding back the bill by doing our night sittings. In my opinion, the role of the opposition is, in fact, to draw the government's attention to the bottlenecks in its activities. I think the coalition might want to spend one night in front of the mirror and see if this bill is something that adds up. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U762	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U763	The Minister of Regional Affairs talks about the planned administrative reform on the basis of the so-called attraction centres, while the Minister of Education makes every effort to ensure that secondary schools disappear from these centres of attraction. Who, then, should be attracted to these centres when there are no more upper secondary schools or secondary schools? But the regional political side is a completely different issue. I just hope that the empty school buildings, which, unfortunately, will arise if this bill is adopted as a law in the coming years, will not be the new crusade of the present Minister of Education and Research, the former Minister of Defence, with the lights out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U764	Thank you. Mailis Reps Riigikogu speech chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U765	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! In the early morning, when most people enjoy the few days left until Midsummer Day, when many people are already thinking about summer and at least the teachers of the flower bosses at this hour, they are still dreaming about all of this, we are discussing changing the PGS here. In conclusion, we can say that a lot of things had been agreed and clarified during the rather substantive procedure in the Committee on Culture. But there were clearly a number of changes at issue, so this morning and at night the members of the Riigikogu, belonging to both the coalition and the opposition, have very thoroughly highlighted the problems to which it does not offer a solution to the draft sent to second reading. I will briefly go over a few things again. It should be stressed once again that this draft does not guarantee a flexible school network in any way. Schools are divided into primary schools and upper secondary schools, and public schools, or pure upper secondary schools, are forced to do so in many ways at the expense of other schools. In funding, it is most likely that schools where more than 252 students study in upper secondary school, more than 500 students in schools in Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and other major cities will be preferred. These proposals, on the basis of which it would be possible to create a completely different school network than the current minister envisages, have still not been supported. We hope that the transition to these flexible forms will also have time to think about and come back to these issues during the summer. But what saddens most is what makes the teacher's already difficult situation even worse over time. 35 hours of work are not given more precise content. Against the background of a teacher's strike, it seems somewhat comic that if the teachers asked for working hours to be no more than 16 to 18, they received a 35-hour working week in response. The grades will also disappear. Thus, for example, a senior teacher or a Methodist can be punished for his hard work. The manager must agree on the volume of his very grateful work in the future within the same overall volume of work. The staff of the support structures, i.e. logos, school psychologists, special needs teachers, as well as social pedagogues who have only been recruited as a result of intensive negotiations since 2010 may have to disappear from school step by step. Unfortunately, there are too many questions that are not resolved by this bill. We cannot accept the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school today in such a way that this procedure can go peacefully to the end. I am therefore handing over the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group not to stop processing the draft at second reading and to send it back to the 340 Committee on Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U766	Thank you. Good colleagues, no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We are now going to examine the 340 amendments to the draft. The first amendment has been received from the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U767	Thank you! I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U768	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. There are 31 votes to 41 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U769	I would like to vote on the second amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U770	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. by 38 votes to 49 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U771	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U772	Thank you! Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. The European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 37 votes to 50, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U773	Thank you. I would like to ask for the fourth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U774	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 39) and 50 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U775	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U776	Thank you. Thinking is never too much. I'm declaring a ten-minute break. The hearing will be resumed in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U777	Dear colleagues, the recess requested by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance has ended. I shall put to the vote the 41st amendment tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. There are 87 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The amendment was supported. The 42nd amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U778	Thank you, Mr President. By coming against the wishes of one group, we ask for this amendment to be voted on and we will take a ten-minute break before it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U779	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 42nd amendment tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. There were 88 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 43 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be taken into account in substance. Amendment 44 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be taken into account in substance. Amendment 45 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be taken into account in substance. Amendment 46 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the commission is that this proposal should be disregarded. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U780	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U781	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 47th amendment tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. 65 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 3 against and 2 abstentions. The amendment was supported. The 48th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the commission is that this amendment should be taken into account in substance. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U782	Thank you, Mr President. I ask you to vote on this amendment and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U783	Thank you! The hearing will be resumed in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U784	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote Amendment 48 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. There were 32 votes for and 47 against, 2 abstentions from the Riigikogu. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 49 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U785	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U786	Thank you. The hearing will be resumed in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U787	Dear Riigikogu, the ten-minute break is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 49 made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 28), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 48 members of the Riigikogu with one abstention. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 50. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U788	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U789	I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U790	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 46th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. There are 39 members against 51 members of the Riigikogu. The amendment was not supported. 47th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U791	Thank you. With regard to the confusion around this bill, we ask for this amendment to be voted on, because we need a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U792	Thank you. I'm declaring recess. The hearing will be resumed in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U793	We follow the Estonian language compatibility rules. As this is a plurality of the principles of wage management, the correct option is 'presenting them'. [[From the chute hall.]] Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U794	Thank you, Mr President. I would very much like to support this proposal, but paragraph 4 of proposal No 50 says: 'establishes the principles governing the organisation of the school's remuneration by presenting it for the purpose of giving an opinion... ' What does it mean: its introduction to give an opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U795	Thank you. Since this proposal has been tabled by the Committee on Culture, perhaps it would make sense for the Commission to come together and decide whether it is 'it these' or simply 'these'. 'Deleting opinion' was the meaning of what it means?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U796	The comment is justified. Now begins a ten-minute break, and within that period, before we start voting on this proposal, hopefully everything will be clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U797	Please, Priit Tobal, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U798	Thank you! I ask you to vote on this amendment and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U799	Ten-minute break. We'll resume the hearing at 6:01 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U800	Dear Riigikogu, we are going to vote on Amendment 50, which has been made by the Committee on Culture. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be fully taken into account. I would like to draw your attention to the correct wording of point 37 (4) on page 7 of the draft. This paragraph 4 reads as follows: "The principles governing the organisation of the school's remuneration shall be established by presenting them before they are established for the purpose of giving opinions to teachers and the board of trustees and of coordinating them with the school manager. " This is an explanation for this controversial sentence. I shall put this amendment to the vote. Please, Priit Tobal, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U801	Thank you, Mr President. Just in case, I was looking at the yellow book, or the comments of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. On the basis of the comments made by § 106 of this Act, we can say that we are currently voting on amendments; we are not voting on the whole text. We are voting on Amendment 50, which says that it establishes the principles governing the organisation of the school's salaries by presenting them for the opinion of teachers. As the Committee on Culture has not gathered in the meantime and has not redrafted the proposal, I do not think it is right to vote on this proposal in the full hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U802	Thank you. What I read to you was meant to explain. We will vote on the amendment in the wording it says. Everyone votes according to his conscience and his mind. You can make a correction later. I shall put this amendment to the vote in the wording as it appears in the list of amendments. The sentence I read to you explains what it really means. Please, Eiki Nestor, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U803	Thank you, good manager. I have a procedural question. On what basis are you saying that if we vote on Amendment 50 in one form, then the law still maintains a different text?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U804	I will deal with this in such a way that there is simply a need for correction, in consultation with the chairman and officials of the Committee on Culture and with lawyers. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 50, which has been tabled by the Committee on Culture. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 47 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 17 against and 8 abstentions. The proposal was therefore supported. Amendment 51 is from the Committee on Culture. In the opinion of the Steering Committee, this amendment should be fully taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U805	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 52, which has been tabled by the Committee on Culture. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was therefore supported. Amendment 53: Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U806	Thank you. In order for the Committee on Culture to be able to give more interpretations to what is in the table and what is in the text, I ask for a ten-minute break before the vote, and I ask for a vote on this proposal as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U807	Ten-minute break. We'll proceed at 5:39 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U808	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 51, which has been made by the Committee on Culture. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 52 members of the Riigikogu voted against, 1 against and 5 abstentions. The proposal was therefore supported. Amendment 52 is from the Committee on Culture. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be fully taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U809	Thank you, manager. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment. Since so many new and interesting ideas have arisen, I would also ask for a ten-minute break to be able to discuss these thoughts!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U810	Ten-minute break. We'll proceed at 5:50.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U811	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 55, which has been tabled by the Committee on Culture. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was therefore supported. Amendment 56: Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U812	Break ten minutes. We'll proceed at 6:24.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U813	I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 55 and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U814	Ladies and gentlemen, the intermission is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 54, which has been tabled by the Committee on Culture. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 48 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was therefore supported. Amendment 55. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U815	Ten-minute break. We'll proceed at 6.13 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U816	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U817	Dear Riigikogu, we have come to Amendment 53. I shall put to the vote Amendment 53, which has been tabled by the Committee on Culture. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 57 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was therefore supported. Amendment 54 has been tabled by the Committee on Culture. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be fully taken into account. Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U818	The hearing will be resumed at 6.47 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U819	I would ask for a vote on Amendment 61 and, as this is a very important amendment, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U820	Thank you. I ask you to vote on this amendment and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U821	Ten-minute break. We'll proceed at 6:35.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U822	Dear Riigikogu, the intermission is over. We currently have the 56th amendment, which has been made by the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was voted in favour of 14 and against by 41 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 57. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U823	Thank you. I ask for a vote on Amendment 57, and before that, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U824	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 57, made by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 8) and 42 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 58: Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U825	Thank you! I would like to vote on Amendment 58 and, before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U826	We'll proceed at 6.58.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U827	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 58, made by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 8), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 43 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 59. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U828	I would like to vote on Amendment 59 and, before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U829	Thank you. We'll proceed at 7:09.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U830	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 59 tabled by the Committee on Culture, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please vote! 44 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with 1 abstention. The proposal was supported. Amendment 60 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U831	I would like to vote on Amendment 60 and, before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U832	I'd love to. Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U833	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 60 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please vote! The proposal was voted in favour of 8 and against by 39 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 61 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the commission has rejected the proposal. Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U834	All right! Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U835	No, it's not. It's not now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U836	Colleagues, I shall put to the vote Amendment 65 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please vote! The proposal was voted in favour of 7 and adopted by 31 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 66 is from the Estonian Centre Party Group. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U837	Colleagues, I shall put to the vote Amendment 61 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, but not taken into account by the commission. Please vote! The proposal was voted in favour of 7 and against by 40 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 62 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Governing Commission has disregarded the proposal. Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U838	I would like to vote on Amendment 62 and, before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U839	All right! So necessary a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U840	Colleagues, I shall put to the vote Amendment 62 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please vote! (meeting of 5), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 37 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 63 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party; the commission has rejected the proposal. Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U841	I would like to vote on Amendment 63 and, before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U842	Ladies and gentlemen and good colleague Sven Sester. I don't do research on what someone's practicing. Please, Mr Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U843	You have a good question. Indrek Saar is a member of the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia. What he'll do in ten minutes, ask him yourself. Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U844	Colleagues, I shall vote on Amendment 64, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please vote! The proposal was voted in favour of 9 and adopted by 33 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 65 is from the Estonian Centre Party Group. The Governing Commission has disregarded the proposal. Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U845	I have a procedural question first. Can I reply to Andres Herkel, a member of the Riigikogu, who had a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U846	No, you can't do that, but you have a chance to meet him in those ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U847	Since my name was mentioned, I have the right to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U848	Got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U849	This means that Amendment 65 went through. Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U850	I asked if I had the right to answer the question. You said I didn't have that right. Next, I have the proposal to vote on Amendment 65. Before that, I ask for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U851	I'd love to! I hope in ten minutes you can make a deal with Andres Herkel. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U852	Thank you! Break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U853	Colleagues, I shall put to the vote Amendment 63 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please vote! (meeting of 5) and 38 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 64 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the commission has rejected this proposal. Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U854	I would like to vote on Amendment 64 and, before that, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U855	Please, my colleague Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U856	Madam President, I have a procedural question. Who's Indrek Saar, and what's he gonna do in ten minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U857	I would like to point out to the manager that the mission of the island is to ask for a break, but not to practice his actressism, saying that he is practicing again, trying it or the other one, etc. Legally, he says, "I'm asking for a ten-minute break. " Why and how he does it, I honestly don't care, and nobody cares at all. Let him go, let him go, it's his business. But all the fuss is not part of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U858	Mr Gräzin! If you're gonna talk for a long time, it's gonna be a very long time. Please, ten minutes of recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U859	Colleagues, I shall put to the vote Amendment 66 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please vote! (meeting of 16), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 37 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 67 is from the Estonian Centre Party Group. The Governing Commission has taken full account of the proposal. Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U860	Please put to the vote Amendment 67 on the draft law amending basic school and upper secondary school and related other laws 340. Before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U861	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U862	Since practice makes perfect, let's practice some more. I therefore ask for the vote on Amendment 66 and before this ten-minute break to find out what Indrek Saar is dealing with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U863	Okay. I remember that you want a vote. Please, a procedural question, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U864	Thank you, Madam President. I'm not going to say the name of the one who told you before. I was wondering if you, as manager, knew what he was practicing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U865	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U866	Colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 68 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission has disregarded the proposal. Please vote! 18 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 38 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 69 has been tabled by the Committee on Culture. The Governing Commission has taken full account of the proposal. Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U867	Please put to the vote Amendment 69 on the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and other laws relating thereto 340. Before this, a ten-minute break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U868	Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U869	I would like to vote on Amendment 68 on the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school and related amendments to other laws 340. Before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U870	Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U871	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this proposal in writing. Ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U872	Thank you, Mr President. Please put to the vote Amendment 71 on the draft law amending basic school and upper secondary school and related other laws 340. Before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U873	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 70th amendment tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. 46 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The amendment was supported. Amendment 71 has been tabled by the lead committee. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U874	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 69th amendment tabled by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There were 36 members of the Riigikogu, 1 member of the Riigikogu voted against, 4 members of the Riigikogu abstained. The proposal was supported. The 70th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U875	Colleagues, I shall put to the vote Amendment 67 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please vote! 20 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 41 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 68 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has rejected the proposal. Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U876	Thank you, Mr President. Please put to the vote Amendment 70 on the draft law amending basic school and upper secondary school and related other laws 340. Before this ten-minute break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U877	Good co-worker, that's not a procedural question. I'm declaring recess. The hearing will be resumed in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U878	Thank you! Please vote on Amendment 72 on the draft law amending basic school and upper secondary school and related other laws 340. Before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U879	Indrek, I hope you have noticed that Amendments 72, 73, 74, 75 and 76 are all more or less in the same wording, with the exception of a few words of communication. Do you think that's normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U880	Please put to the vote Amendment 73 on the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and other laws relating thereto 340. Before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U881	Thank you. A procedural question, Juku-Kalle Raid.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U882	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 71st amendment tabled by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 42 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The proposal was supported. The 72nd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U883	Thank you. I'm declaring a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U884	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote Amendment 72 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. There were 10 votes against and 31 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 73 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-19_U885	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 73rd amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. There were 15 votes in favour and 36 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Dear colleagues, I'll take the chairman's break until ten o'clock so we can start the Thursday session correctly. Wednesday's session is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 9.50 a.m.
