ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U1	Honourable ministers! Good Riigikogu! We will begin an interview on 17 April with the following members of the government: Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Prime Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler. First, please, let's do the presence check! 39 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 62 are missing. Let's go to today's questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U2	The first questioner is Marika Tuus-lauul. He is asking a question to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, who is today in charge of the Prime Minister. The subject is the price of electricity. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U3	Madam Minister, who are you here today in the role of Prime Minister? With regard to the price of electricity, I want to ask you what we've asked for before. It is probably known to every person in Estonia, whether or not he has been involved in politics, that the high end price of electricity is the political decision of the government, especially the Minister for Economic Affairs. High network charges, excise duty almost five times higher than the European minimum requirement, VAT put on that end, in turn tax has been charged, renewable energy charges are, in fact, all administered by the government and, directly or indirectly, regulated by the government. You promised lower home costs, including about half the electricity price, but everything has gone the other way. What can you say today to justify this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U4	Good questioner! I've noticed that you don't have much sympathy for the Minister of Economic Affairs, and that probably explains your attack on him. But I have to say that you represent the Minister for Economic Affairs a little more powerful than he really is when you claim that the price of electricity is confirmed by a decision of the Minister for Economic Affairs or that the decision of the Minister for Economic Affairs can have a very strong influence on the price of electricity. As you are well aware, as of 1 January of this year, domestic consumers are also in a situation where electricity prices are formed for them on the market. The objective of opening up the market has been to create more competition very clearly. It is competition that ensures the most favourable price for the consumer. Of course, in addition to everything else, the high price of electricity caused by unusually long and cold winters makes people bitter. That's what we all know, and I think we're understanding it. At the same time, it would be extremely premature to draw very far conclusions after the first few months on the wider functioning of the open market. Once again, competition is what will ultimately guarantee the best possible price for the consumer, and the consumer will certainly only win in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U5	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, the first point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U6	I spoke not only of the activities of the Minister for Economic Affairs, but of the whole government. And I wasn't talking about opening up the market, I was talking about high taxes. Statistics show that, when compared to a year ago, electricity prices account for about two thirds of the increase in housing costs. Electricity was 30% more expensive in March than a year ago. Poorer people have to sacrifice about 10% of their family's income to buy electricity. But a special upset is still caused by a huge network fee and its formation secrecy. The minister says it's a business secret, but why is it still? After all, Eesti Energia provides us with a public service and we need to get information about it in public information procedures, just as it is in neighbouring countries. I ask how much Elering has separated from the huge profits that were made last year in order to increase the security of electricity supply.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U7	It's been a long time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U8	To tell you the truth, it's very difficult for you to observe the noble flight of your idea. There were so many statements, and a lot of them aren't true. It would probably take much more time than the Question Time Framework allows to disprove them all. One argument was that we have an exceptionally high excise duty on the electricity market. However, compared to Finland and Sweden, Finland's electricity excise duty is known to be 3.8 times higher for non-commercial consumers. In Sweden, electricity excise duty is 7.1 times higher than in Estonia, with the exception of Northern Sweden alone, where the rate of excise duty is slightly lower, but despite this slightly lower rate, the difference with Estonian excise duty is 4.7 times higher in Northern Sweden. You are fighting to provide incentives for those who consume more electricity and who are likely to be more prosperous. It's basically the same fight as changing the electric excise duty. Such an objective is beyond my comprehension. Why should we meet above all those with higher incomes, who consume more? I do not see, first of all, a deep, substantive reason for this and, secondly, the average effect on a person's electricity bill that would result from it would be just over EUR 1 per month. However, the total impact on the state budget would be EUR 30 million, which would mean lower expenditure in social and cultural areas, for example. If you really want to take on the role of a front-slasher in these areas, I wish you luck.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U9	Please, Marika Tuus-lauul, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U10	I'll ask you again. My question concerned the secrecy of network charges. Why is it not public information if it is in other neighbouring countries? Why can't we know anything about this? It should really be accessible to people on a public basis. I also ask why the gold pit of the government is made of Eesti Energia. We know that EUR 100 million will be taken out with taxes this year. Sandor Liive has also said himself that two are required of them: on the one hand, cheap electricity, but on the other hand, heavy dividends are taken out. Those are two totally conflicting things. And maybe you'll also tell us why we are paying off this totally pointless Painküla CHP plant as consumers. 43 million euros have already been buried there. There are so many of these things that you really cannot ask just one question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U11	Dear President, can there be any way to direct us to stick to one subject? And if the questioner asks, and there are several very jealous statements, how can I respond to all of them? I understand that the Rules of Procedure do not allow this to be discussed today, but maybe we should think about it in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U12	Answer your chosen question within two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U13	First of all, the argument was that the principles governing the charging of network charges were classified. In both the Minister for Economic Affairs and previous briefings, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip has explained to you how network charges are set. I am quite convinced that you should know that each time the Competition Authority coordinates the level of network charges due to very detailed rules within Europe and Estonia. It's definitely not classified. I do not know if your group has met with the Competition Authority to discuss this issue, but if it is necessary, it is probably possible to ask them for a more detailed explanation. Elering's investments are much higher this year than the amount actually collected from consumers each year, and all these investments are ultimately directly targeted at the network service that ensures energy security and a better service. The Minister of Economic Affairs has recently explained to you how Estlink 2 will be invested in the Community, which is an investment essential for our security of supply and energy security and must be done, in the same way as Estlink 1 and the emergency reserve station. You have already been given a completely exhaustive answer on this point in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U14	Thank you. Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U15	Minister, today, on behalf of the Prime Minister. You said that the increase in electricity prices must be viewed with understanding. But how can the Prime Minister be sympathetic to the decline in the standard of living of the country's population caused by its tax policy? After all, the sharp rise in electricity prices is also due to state taxes in addition to those in the market. How can you claim to be sympathetic about the decline in living standards?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U16	Your ability to twist words is quite extraordinary! You're putting words in my mouth that I haven't said. I said that people's resentment for rising electricity prices is perfectly understandable. And indeed, it is absolutely impossible to view it differently from understanding it. But when I listen to your questions about rising housing costs, I find it somewhat difficult, to be honest, to believe in their sincerity. This is because, above all, when we look at how much of people's expenses are made up of heating costs, this proportion is higher than that of electricity. The price of electricity is on the market. If you really wanted to do something about the heating costs, you would have made it clear to your leader and teacher, whose sole authority is the city of Tallinn now, that the capital needs to invest in heating routes so that people do not have to pay for heating air. I'm gonna show you a couple of pictures that gave me a very evil citizen on top of the leaders of the city of Tallinn. They're relatively small, but maybe you can still see. Here's a picture of the racetrack on the inside, which is made at a time when there were dozens of degrees of cold outside. In the city of Tallinn, where nearly a third of Estonia lives, people who consume district heating pay 17% for the fact that Tallinn has not invested in repeating heat lines. This work is directly in the power of Tallinn Heat, but every year millions of euros are taken out of Tallinn Heat to direct this money to Tallinn Television, where you, Mr. Lenk, are also a frequent guest.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U17	Thank you. Let's take the next question. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U18	Marika Tuus-Laul is certainly an indisputable talent in Estonian politics. Apparently, no one else in this hall can throw false claims with such a dull face. But I'm asking about network charges. The debate is currently taking place on the future use of the EU's structural instruments. How do you feel about the idea that part of the budget for the next period could be used to upgrade the network instead of collecting this money from consumers? It seems to me that this is an idea that deserves to be discussed at least.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U19	Energy savings as a whole will certainly also be a strong focus in the next financial perspective of the European Union, and this also applies to the amounts that we are channelling domestic investment. As regards your relatively fresh proposal to use EU money for network investments, it is certainly worth analysing. At the moment, I have no information to tell you whether the relevant analyses have reached the point where it is possible to start making a decision, but I believe that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as the Ministry of Finance, will seriously analyse this proposal. The debate on the use of euro money for the next budget period is at a stage where decisions have not yet been taken. In the near future, the first round, the first package of proposals, will certainly be able to be analysed in more detail. But in any case, it is worth discussing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U20	Thank you very much. I will conclude the debate on this issue, and we will go to the next one, so that we can get all the issues over nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U21	Kadri Simson is now going to ask the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, about the interest income on Greek bonds. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U22	Minister of Finance! A few weeks ago, a delegation from the Riigikogu Committee on Finance visited Greece, where one of the brightest activities was a meeting in the Greek Parliament. One Greek Member said there that Estonia and the other eurozone countries are not helping Greece, but are earning interest thanks to their accident. The European Central Bank (ECB) earned the most interest income from Greek bonds purchased in 2012 under the Securities and Markets Programme (SPP) received interest income of EUR 555 million. At the same time, the finance ministers of the Eurogroup have entered into a political agreement that this interest income will be returned to Greece. I would like to know how Estonia will comply with this political agreement. As we know, this amount should be transferred by the state of Estonia, while the recipient of interest income is Eesti Pank, whose income use and the decision of the supervisory board are independent.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U23	I hope you had the opportunity to signal at this bright meeting that such accusations and criticisms of others are inappropriate. But there are unfortunately many in this part of the world, and there are such moods on the street. I find that very disgusting. The issue of interest income is indeed raised. The central bank has bought inexpensive programme bonds from programme countries on the market and made a good profit from it. The agreement is that, firstly, in order to alleviate Greece's debt burden and, secondly, in order not to make a profit from the trouble of the programme country, this money will be transferred to the budget of the beneficiary country and it will be proposed to give it back to Greece. So this element in the Greek story, and also in your question, makes perfect sense. The repayment is planned, and with this we will come to the Riigikogu as soon as the amount is known and the central bank has made its own independent decisions. I believe that the Estonian Government does not intend to keep this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U24	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U25	Am I right to understand that this is why the Riigikogu has to change the state budget of this year, and we do not yet know this amount? But can you tell us what the order of magnitude is and is such a political agreement also in accordance with the basic law of the Estonian state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U26	Of course, it is in accordance with the law and, of course, it is necessary to come to the Riigikogu to do so. And indeed, this also concerns the 2013 budget. The size of the amount? I am not adding a decimal right now because it is not exactly known, it also depends on the decision of the central bank and its portfolio, its profit calculation, but the order of magnitude is five million, which is earned from bond trading with a view to supporting the bond market and, of course, making a profit.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U27	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U28	Minister of Finance! As Cyprus moves to those in need, Estonia's commitment to further aid amounts in Greece will continue to grow. The fourth euro area country is now outside the EFSF and the share of assisting countries remains growing. Yesterday, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you did not know exactly what this meant for Estonia to mean that further payments from Greece would increase. Can you tell us today how much Estonia's commitments towards Greece are now increasing?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U29	I didn't catch what exactly you asked at the beginning of the question. I realized the end, and I guess the beginning was about that. Greece, Ireland and Portugal are affected by this part, which is the key to Estonia's lending from the EFSF. If the amounts issued so far remain unaffected, then, of course, due to countries falling out of the programme, the coefficient of other countries will be higher for new payments. These payments have been made by a minority. And that sum is microscopic. As we are about to bring up the Cyprus issue, I can say that in the event of the Cyprus drop, our participation in the EFSF will increase by 0.006%. To this end, procedures must first be carried out and this will affect the amount of our guarantee for other programmes to the tune of a few hundred thousand euros. This is the amount of the guarantee, not the amount to be paid, and it depends very much on how much the loan is actually taken from the EFSF. The exact sum is 300,000, but that's the maximum, that's three and a half hundred. But it certainly isn't the exact amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U30	Thank you. Let's try to fit in two minutes! Please, Aivar Sõerd, a locally registered question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U31	Good minister! Of course, I understand my colleague's concern that while we do not have the money to repair the crumbling streets of Tallinn, we are engaged in rescue programmes. But I'd like to come back to the interest on the Greek bonds. It may not be a direct question for finance ministers, but the finance ministers have also dealt with it. The central bank has tens or hundreds of millions of euros of Greek bonds, and there may be a situation that these bonds need to be underestimated. Has it been discussed that instead of paying back this interest income to a Member State, an extraordinary fund could be set up by the central bank to cover future potential costs in case these bonds were to be discounted? Was this proposal not considered?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U32	No such proposal has been made. I also point out that bond income is not just about interest. In the case of Greece, even the larger part of the revenue is the difference between the cheap market price and the nominal price. But right now, yes, one part of this profit is passed on to the national budgets.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U33	Thank you. There are no further questions on this subject. Let us close the debate on the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U34	Let's go to the next question. Neeme the Great asks regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler about the implementation of the administrative reform. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U35	Minister, thank you very much. You and your team are working on a framework law on administrative reform. It should be in the government by September and adopted by December. The model of the attraction centres has been taken as a basis. This model was selected on the basis of a survey with 67 respondents. About 40 of them expressed their views on the model and, in turn, slightly more than half of them supported the model of the centres of attraction. In fact, you're relying on a little less than 30 opinions right now. The intention to draft the draft was supported by MKM, supported by the Ministry of Agriculture, but was not coordinated by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Culture, for example. The Association of Estonian Cities coordinated; the Association of Estonian Municipalities did not coordinate. The Reform Party has clearly stated that it does not support forced amalgamation of municipalities. Hence the question: how far do you really expect to go with this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U36	I hope that Estonian municipalities will be of reasonable size, that municipalities with a few hundred inhabitants will still join and somewhat larger. How big is the question of compromise? As for the figures you have provided, these statistics reflect written answers. We also held public debates in the counties, especially in the cultural centres of the county centres, on the subject of asking for the views of all people. Of course, it did not record exactly who said what, but the attitude towards the model of attraction centres was extremely positive. When the position was expressed, it was mainly in favour of this model. I do not think it is worth entanglement that a little more on one side or on the other side was expressed in writing. There's been a great deal of sympathy. True, the problem is that many do not want to express their position. In Estonia, it is said that things need to be changed, that the current situation is not satisfactory. It's a lot harder to get an answer to a question you'd change. That is why we proposed these six models to make it easier for people to say their preference, and one preference was clearly in the majority there. We can base this model on further work on it. You referred to coordination. The question was the intention to draft a bill, and it is understandable that it is extremely difficult to obtain all the answers in the first round of coordination immediately. We will also continue to work on the coordination negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U37	Dear Minister of Regional Affairs, please stay within two minutes. Please, Neeme the Great, the first point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U38	These are very fundamental questions. The issue of administrative reform is political will and compromises. We know many things about wanting, but what about compromises? One possible compromise on forced amalgamation of municipalities would be to strengthen regional cooperation by strengthening local governments. It would also connect to your original strong counties with a baseed direction. Hence the question: have you now given up the development of an administrative model based on strong counties?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U39	Yes, a compromise must be sought on this issue. As far as cooperation between local governments is concerned, I think that joining and acting together after accession is the best and highest form of cooperation. Why limit cooperation, for example, to waste shipments and so on? We could also combine the governance structures in a way that is happening voluntarily in the negotiations between municipalities. In the case of county self-government associations, it is a question of how large our municipalities will be. For example, if Hiiumaa has one municipality in the future, what is the county council of Hiiumaa? I have discussed this very much with representatives of the county councils and they have agreed that if there is only one, two, three, maybe four municipalities, the municipalities could cover a larger region, not just one county. This would create regional self-government associations. It is clear that cooperation is also necessary for larger municipalities, as public transport routes, for example, can cross borders. There is certainly a need for a clear debate on all the issues that remain to be resolved in cooperation with the local government associations or the structures of public transport centres. But I stress that everything depends very much on how big the municipalities we have.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U40	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U41	In Läänemaa, three municipal councils decided on Monday to join. Started with eight municipalities, graduated with three. The first major problem was the abandonment of Ridala Municipality, with which he separated Haapsalu from the rest of the municipalities. On Monday, during the final phase of the process, the municipality of Nõva also gave up. When decided on the basis of an active debate on social media, the disagreements between the Reform Party and IRL representatives on the ground became decisive for both rural municipalities. Hence my question: does the IRL itself still have a common position on administrative reform? And why is it that the representatives of the government departments are working against each other on the ground and preventing voluntary association with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U42	It is difficult for me to say about the Reform Party, to ask good colleagues in this Chamber. As far as the IRL is concerned, I can say that we do not have such iron discipline that if the party has taken a specific decision on one issue, none of us would think otherwise. We have very different views on this issue. It is true that the IRL Council and the Presidency, in a word the governing bodies, clearly support the administrative reform. However, this does not mean that the members of the local council always vote that way, although this is the general direction. As for your example of Ridala, I do not agree that Ridala divorced Haapsalu and the rest of the municipalities. The mayor of Haapsalu made it clear that he did not have the slightest wish that the town of Haapsalu would join the small municipalities. I didn't think it was pretty. I do not approve of Ridala's decision not to go to accession negotiations, but I kind of understand them. If anyone is clearly told that we only want to join you and that all the other municipalities in the county we rule out, it is understandable that this was in fact the exclusioner, in particular, of the Mayor of Haapsalu, rather than the Ridala Vallavolikogu. I am pleased that the three municipalities went to a victorious end. I am sure that they will be proud to look back on this decision in five years' time, just as it has already happened in some parts of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U43	Thank you. Let's go to the issues registered on the spot. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U44	Minister, thank you very much. According to the administrative reform plan, there has also been a discussion on the question of the transfer of many of the roles of rural governments to local governments. Has the role of the Committee on Minorities been discussed in this context? At present, they operate very well in rural governments, which are competent bodies. At the same time, some cities still hold separate committees. What role does the Administrative Reform Plan provide for in the Committee on Minorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U45	The general principle is that we should give as many tasks as possible to the local government level. The small size of the municipalities has prevented this at the moment, which is why, unfortunately, we are seeing a rather opposite trend in recent times. Things are moving quietly in the direction that, by sneaking into parallel structures, the state takes over the functions of the local government. I think that if the municipalities are large enough, they will also be able to perform perfectly the work of the Committee on Minorities and other tasks in the field of child protection. It's a matter of people. There must be competent people in the county. After all, the tasks are self-governing in nature, and now it is actually an emergency that the rural government is fulfilling them. In my view, it is reasonable that the good officials who do this work move into a local authority structure if the municipalities have sufficient size and, consequently, an adequate budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U46	Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U47	Good minister! I must admit that I do not know of any of the tasks that have recently been taken away from the municipalities and which the state would have undertaken. Rather, it has been the other way around: the state has assigned tasks to the municipalities, without contributing to the financing. But the question is, instead, about your claim that you do not know clearly the position of your coalition partner's Reform Party on the issue of administrative reform. Is there no coalition government in our country anymore? Whether or not the coalition's action plans will be agreed before they are nearly occupied by new people, the departments that should deal with them will be set up. If you were a minister, wouldn't it be reasonable for you to ask the coalition partner's position on administrative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U48	I don't like to respond to the kind of complaining that turns words around. However, if you say absolutely the opposite of what I said, it must be done. I did not really say that I did not know what the Reform Party's position was on the issue of administrative reform. We were talking about whether the members of the IRL and Reform Party would decide on the ground in a different way than the party's line. On this point, I said that I must ask the members of the party how great democracy is within the party, what freedom of action is. In the parties on the right, it is relatively large, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U49	Thank you. Priit Toobal has a procedural remark.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U50	Mr President, I think it is also your task to ensure that, when a question is put in the Chamber, the Minister responds to it. And if he doesn't, it should be pointed out. At the moment, I can repeat my question if the Minister did not understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U51	Thank you for bringing this to my attention. Right now, I'm running the briefing and giving the floor to Kalvi Tough. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U52	Good minister! I am asking about the budget negotiations between the Municipalities' Cooperation Council and the Government of the Republic, which have just begun. We know that, above all, the Equalisation Fund is an instrument for implementing regional policy. Through the Equalisation Fund, money is primarily given to municipalities located in areas where tax receipts are not very large due to their location. As Minister of Regional Affairs, do you support an increase in the fine-tuning fund for the next financial year, even to pre-masculine levels?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U53	I'm a little different. In my opinion, the model of the Equalisation Fund is not so much an instrument for implementing regional policy, but rather covers deficits when someone gets less income. Among the recipients of funds from the Equalisation Fund, we also find municipalities located in a relatively favourable location. Their problem is not a poor location, but that they have made poor quality management decisions. And if their revenues are reduced as a result, they will be compensated. So it is rather a measure of the nature of income support for municipalities. Regional policy is significantly better served by regional support programmes from the area-based support programme to the competence centre programme, for example. But in answer to your question, I support the gradual restoration of the municipal revenue base. I have proposed, in the budgetary negotiations, an increase of 0.2 percentage points in the income tax to be paid to municipalities, and I think that this is more important than an increase in the amount of the Equalisation Fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U54	Thank you. Let's take the last one registered on site. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U55	Good minister! Today's news shows that for the next budget period, the Ministry of Agriculture will receive nearly EUR 1 billion of European Union money for rural development. How much can you talk to your ministry about sharing this money or how much do you intend to talk about?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U56	I am not exactly familiar with the planning of measures for the new period of the rural development plan, but it seems to me that a very large amount of money is not coming from there to support municipalities. This has been the case with euro money in the current budgetary period. However, the people of our ministry are involved in the preparation of the rural development plan strategy. For us, the structure of the Leader action and other measures of this kind is a very important topic for negotiation. We are interested in better cooperation between small municipalities and cities in the counties, and we have proposed extending the Leader measure to important cities in the county. So far, they have not been eligible for Leader. Much also depends on whether additional support can be found from the Regional Development Fund, for example. I think that greater cooperation between "rural" and "rural" cities is absolutely necessary. At the moment, in the case of a number of support programmes, I can see that one is working in one direction and the other in a slightly different direction. We need to look at the centres of attraction and the areas of activity as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U57	Thank you. Let us stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U58	Let's go to the next, fourth question. Tarmo Tamm wishes to ask regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler a question about rural governments. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U59	Minister, thank you very much. As we know, two local councils in Põlva County have become incapacitated and alternate council members have been appointed. Cannabis Vallavolikogu was unable to act since 18 September last year and Põlva Vallavolikogu since 3 June last year. Minister, didn't the county government monitor the legitimacy of the work of these parishes? If he was still watching, why didn't he intervene in time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U60	We have regulated this area in such a way that county governments do not supervise all decisions taken by local governments. In Latvia, for example, there is another time in this regard, where, as far as I know, every municipal council meeting is also attended by a representative of the county government. Their legislation is structured in such a way that the legal nature of local governments' decisions is monitored on the ground. The freedom of action of local governments is much greater in Estonia, and the representative of the county government does not write down how and what they should do at every council meeting. It is unfortunate, of course, that decisions have been taken in one county, which is not in accordance with the law, but above all, their decision-makers must ensure the legality of the decisions. In my opinion, it could continue to be the task of the municipality in particular, not of some public authorities, to guarantee that the decisions taken are of high quality.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U61	Thank you. Tarmo Tamm, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U62	Mr. Minister! Recently, the Riigikogu discussed the reorganisation of the work of rural governments and the abolition of the position of county governor. It was then particularly stressed that one of the main tasks of the county elders was to control the legislation of local governments. Today it turns out it's a joke and it doesn't have to be. Here's what I'm gonna ask you. If the City of Põlva and the Municipality of Põlva have decided to join, but the county government is not following this accession process, who will be responsible for it if the merger is because the legislation is null and void today? Is anyone responsible for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U63	The Honourable Riigikogu recently adopted amendments to the Act to facilitate the merger of local government units. There is now also a provision in the law that the mayor advises the municipalities in the accession process. Thus, this obligation to consult is also firmly enshrined in the law, although, as far as I know, neither the rural governments nor the officials of our ministry have previously refused to provide advice and assistance when the municipalities have had questions about how to carry out the accession process. I've seen people consult, call constantly, ask for advice if there are any questions or obstacles, if anything is confusing. I think the cooperation has been pretty good.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U64	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U65	Minister, I understand from what you have said that rural governments do not actually exercise control over local governments. Am I getting something wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U66	Depends on the field. When we are talking, for example, about establishing a general government plan, supervision of it is strictly stipulated and is carried out systemically by county governments. But in my opinion, we should not create a situation where rural government representatives influence almost every decision taken by local governments. Independent decision-making is an essential element of autonomy. Of course, these decisions must not be against the law, but let us not take autonomy away from the local governments!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U67	Thank you. Please check-in, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U68	As we know, local elections are approaching. We also know that all the county elders have politically defined themselves, are members of some political parties. Mostly they are also the regional leaders of political parties. Here's my question. There is a fear that rural governments can become party offices. I have been told several times that meetings of the board of some party have been held in the premises of one or another county government without paying for it. How do you feel about that? Can the county government also have a party policy, such as holding regional board meetings?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U69	I know that rural government meeting rooms are given relatively freely to various organisations. I have not specifically asked what kind of organisations have used these rooms. But you can ask your colleague Neeme the Great, for example, if he was a governor, whether or not there were meetings of the Social Democratic Party in these rooms. Similarly, you can inherit it from other former farmers. I repeat: during this century, 46 people have been in the position of county governor in Estonia. Of these 46 people, four have not been candidates for election and have not been members of any political party for various reasons, for example because of deprivation of liberty. I think it's hypocritical to start saying that you, Kalvi, have suddenly discovered that the county elders are members of a party. We have had social democrat country elders and other political parties. This has been the case for this century, but also for a long time before that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U70	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U71	Good minister! The subject is rural governments, but more specifically their control over individual acts of local governments. There is another aspect of the legitimacy of individual acts. I also believe that, because of their autonomy, municipalities should be primarily responsible for whether their individual acts are correctly recorded, both in law and in substance. Are there any activities in your area of responsibility that would increase the qualifications of city and parish secretaries so that all of this could be done correctly?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U72	We have quite a constant training of municipal officials within the framework of various measures. The answer to whether there have been specific trainings for city and parish secretaries in particular, I am indebted, but they have always received advice in different areas. For example, in the area of population operations, they receive annual training on a case-by-case basis. We were talking about Structural Funds money for the next period. During this discussion, the Ministry of Finance has proposed to allocate quite a lot of money to training local government officials in these areas. But eventually, everything depends on a person's own desire to learn things for himself. Inevitably, people have different competences, and that remains the case. I repeat, if we have a very fragmented system of self-government, the risk of incompetence is greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U73	Thank you. No further questions have been registered on this subject. I will close the debate on the fourth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U74	Now we have a few minutes to register for a question on the ground. We'll do as much as we can. Please tell me the question and to which minister it is addressed. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U75	I'll ask Keit Pentus-Rosimine. In addition to the cost of electricity, you started to talk briefly about the heating costs and how bad Tallinn's heating routes are. What can and should be done to make people's indoors less expensive than they are now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U76	Indeed, before that, the time was a little short to unravel the subject. Let's start with a brief description of the situation. In Tallinn, a very important part of the infrastructure is for people using district heating. Unfortunately, their average age has reached 25 years. If the current practice of minimum investment in heat lines continues, it will soon be 30 years old. In a situation where some of the routes are essentially 60 years old, some of the routes are years old, it may be that these very old routes start to explode with a lot of frost and people just get caught in the cold. It's part of the problem. Another part of the problem is that if we compare heating costs in Finland and Estonia, for example, it takes twice as much heat energy to heat one cubic metre of residential or office space in Finland as in Estonia. Of course, this is also due to the different quality of insulation of houses, but the fact that 17% of the heat that consumers pay for in Tallinn simply disappears. The routes belong to Tallinn Heat, which in turn is 100% owned by the city. It's a profit-making company, but unfortunately, the city doesn't invest that profit in upgrading the routes, it takes out the profits. Tallinn Television is likely to give us a lot of not very high-quality programmes for this money. If you answer what to do, first of all, the city should start directing this profit to its heating routes instead of Tallinn Television.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U77	Thank you very much. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U78	I, too, have a question for Minister Pentus-Rosimannus. Strangely, the format of our Question Time is that if the questioner is insulted and told that he is lying and answered completely by the question, a member of the Riigikogu cannot defend itself. In the case of electricity price, you reached Tallinn Television and Tallinn Heat and also in the case of an additional question. It would be about the same if I asked you about Autorollo's transactions. I won't do it. But I'll ask you again about the price of electricity. If Elering and the Competition Authority coordinating his price were out of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, would this reward be more favourable to people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U79	A member of the Riigikogu is undoubtedly free to ask his questions, but I would recommend that you address the questions as accurately as possible in the future and not embed in a wide range of topics. This makes the answer very difficult, all the more so because it is often difficult to understand your question. Once again, the price of the network service is exclusively coordinated by the Competition Authority. The mechanisms for the formation of this price have been explained to you in beautiful detail by Minister of Economic Affairs Juhan Parts, and he is certainly prepared to do so again. This money that consumers pay for online services directly means investing in greater security of supply. I already mentioned today the major investments Elering has made or is doing this year, they concern Estlink 1, Estlink 2 and the emergency reserve station. Speaking of sums, Elering will invest just over 209 million euros in 2013. In addition to these large investments, there is also a need to find money for smaller conventional networks. It's all network services. And indeed, the mechanism on which the Competition Authority proceeds in terms of price coordination stems directly from the laws that Parliament has adopted, as well as from the European Union's rules, which are exceptionally detailed and which will certainly be explained to you alone by the Competition Authority, if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U80	Thank you very much. Question time is over, no further questions can be asked. Many thanks to the members of the government and many thanks to the questioners!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U81	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Wednesday session of the 11th working week of the V plenary session. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. It is not recommended to hand over any drafts or requests for information. Let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu. The draft of the decision of the Riigikogu "Announcement of a Member of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund," presented on 15 April 2008, the commission of the Economic Affairs Committee; secondly, the Committee of the Environment of the Riigikogu. a draft law amending § 131 of the Waste Act, initiated on 15 April, commission of the Environment Committee; thirdly, the Social Democratic Party Group. a draft law on the amendment of the Income Tax Act, initiated on 16 April, Commission on Finance. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present; no 19. Let's clarify today's agenda. On behalf of the commission, Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, will make a presentation on behalf of the leading committee, under item No 2, the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Republic of Cyprus' presented by the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U82	Let's keep going. The first item is the first reading of the draft law amending § 21 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask for a presentation of a speech chair by a member of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the draft Group of the Social Democratic Party, which seeks to supplement the provisions of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act on the language of upper secondary school. To begin with, I will briefly review the current arrangements and put this draft in a slightly broader context. As we know, since 2011, the language of study in state and municipal secondary schools has been changed so that 60% of the studies must generally take place in Estonian. There was no change in the essence of basic school, the local government can grant permission to teach in any language. It is true that the study of Estonian as a foreign language is compulsory from 1st grade in those primary schools where the language of instruction is not Estonian. This should ensure that middle school graduates can continue to study in Estonian, as required by the law. As far as 60% of teaching in Estonian is concerned, it has been said very well in itself that young people from Russian-speaking families must also learn good Estonian to cope with the labour market and society. Despite this noble objective, the fact that the level of teaching the Estonian language of Russian primary schools is extremely different has become particularly prominent in the implementation of the reform. This is partly due to educational choices in schools, but certainly also to very different integration environments such as Tartu, Narva, Mustvee, Tallinn and Narva. I'm going to read out the numbers I've already mentioned many times. In 2011 the average result of the Estonian language examination of Tartu Annelinna Gymnasium was 88.8%, in Tallinn Karjamaa Gymnasium...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U84	Excuse me for a second! There's too much noise in the hall. Keep it down, please! Now please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U85	In Tallinn Karjamaa Upper Secondary School, this figure was 49%, Narva 6. 43% in school, 30% in Lasnamäe Primary School. There are also general educational problems that cannot be overcome. On the one hand, this is the shortage of teachers with a sufficient degree of Estonian language in Russian upper secondary schools. In all Russian schools, the proportion of teachers holding Estonian at least C1 level is 51%, but of course there are serious regional differences and differences between schools. Tartu Annelinna Gymnasium has 68% of such teachers, Narva 6. Only 35% at school. However, if the lesson takes place formally in Estonian, but neither the students nor the teacher have sufficient knowledge of the Estonian language, you can guess what it means to be neither a language language nor a knowledge of the subject. It is simply inappropriate to talk about increasing competitiveness here. A further problem is the lack of relevant multilingual teaching material that forces teachers to be 'creating', as the Ministry says. The teachers of Russian schools prefer the word 'experiment', bearing in mind the need to arrive at an appropriate method of experimental and error. Surely some schools can do this nicely without a doubt. However, not all schools can be measured with the same measure, and the level of preparation of teachers is as different as the above figures show. In fact, the legislator has taken into account the differences between schools and integration environments, and there is a provision in the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act which allows the government to grant an exception to those schools, or even to individual classes, for which high-quality compliance with language requirements is beyond its control. Unfortunately, the legislator did not lay down the criteria which the government should base on when granting derogations. This has led to politicisation and political bias in the process. While the government has assessed the language skills of both teachers and students when deciding to refuse 15 Russian schools, the general rhetoric of the refusal decision has been in style 'yes, there are problems with the language skills of both teachers and students in this school, but the school itself is guilty of not preparing children for the changeover in good time'. Local authorities are also often accused that weak schools have not yet been shut down. There are certainly no omissions in both schools and local governments on this issue, but children are currently suffering from the need to study in Estonian without sufficient language skills, in a situation where there are also a lack of teachers who speak Estonian well. In response to my request for information, the Ministry of Education stated that the learning success of young people studying under the new system is different but'minimum satisfactory'. In our opinion,'minimum satisfactory' is certainly not sufficient and such rigidity in the application of § 21 (3) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, that is to say, the exception it provides for, is not correct. To prove the political bias of the opt-out decisions, let us look, for example, at Narva 6. About school. On the basis of the current comprehensive school curriculum, a graduate should be able to speak Estonian at least at level B1, which means receiving 60 points at the final examination of Estonian language. According to the B1 level, I quote the study programme of the comprehensive school's foreign language curriculum, the graduate should understand everything important on a subject that she knows, can verbally describe experiences, events, dreams and goals, and briefly justify and explain her views and plans, and be able to produce a simple text on a familiar subject in writing. The question arises as to whether it is really enough to study physics, chemistry, mathematics or history at upper secondary school level. You know, you can do physical upbringing sometimes. Narva 6. In school, the language skills of middle school graduates are even worse. Most of them didn't even get 60 points on the language exam or B1 level. In 2011, the average result of the final exam of Estonian as the second language was 43 points, while the median score was only 40, i.e. half of the finalists received less than 40 points. It should be noted that this level is not enough to gain citizenship, let alone study in upper secondary school. Government assessment of students' language skills Narva 6. The school had the following: the average Estonian language examination grade is slightly low, but shows that the language proficiency level of some students is clearly over 60 points. And it's said regardless of the fact that half of the students got less than 40 points on the exam, let alone 60. In what way should students of this school be able to acquire knowledge properly in Estonian? After all, B1 is also inadequate for upper secondary school studies. Now I'm getting to our bill. Its purpose is to specify the criteria to be assessed by the government when deciding whether to grant an exemption. Those criteria have not been laid down so far. The draft contains three of these criteria. First of all, the municipality must certainly guarantee the possibility of receiving upper secondary school education in Estonian, which is a constitutional requirement. Secondly, the language skills of students must be assessed, and thirdly, other factors must be taken into account, including the presence of qualified teachers. The draft would clearly set out the pedagogical aspects on the basis of which the government exercises its discretion. As a result, politicisation will be reduced, decisions will become clearer, more transparent and more understandable. In our view, there should certainly not be any political calculations in relation to the quality of student education. The wider problem, of course, is that the whole reform was started at the wrong end. The state is currently trying to compensate for failure in primary schools at upper secondary school level. The level of B1 is certainly not sufficient to study in upper secondary school, and even so, only half of all middle school graduates in Russian schools in Estonia reach that level. The basic school teaching methodology should therefore be addressed in particular, since the primary task of the upper secondary school is to provide knowledge for further studies. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education, has also admitted that the reform started at the wrong end, and the Ministry is finally starting a more serious analysis of the language learning methodology of basic school. This is certainly gratifying, but the intermediate age groups must now study in Estonian, although their language skills are not enough. This is not right either socio-economically or from the point of view of integration. Our draft offers the opportunity to reduce the politicisation of this issue and to allow exceptions to schools or to individual classes, on the basis of objective criteria, where either there are no teachers in Estonian or the language skills of students are insufficient. In this case, children who were not taught Estonian well enough in comprehensive school would also receive high-quality knowledge and have the opportunity to go to university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U86	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thanks a lot, Evgeny Ossinovski! Paul-Eerik Rummo, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair, for a co-report!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U87	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! This draft was discussed in the Committee on Culture on 25 March. In addition to the members of the Committee on Culture and the representatives of the authors of the draft, the people of the Ministry of Education and Research were also present: Irene Käosaar, Head of the Department of General Education, and Andrus Saare, Adviser to the Minister of Education and Research. First of all, Mr Ossinovsky introduced this bill in the same way as he did from this speech chair a moment ago. Irene Käosaar explained the opinion of the Government of the Republic on the draft, which was ultimately negative. This was followed by a rather in-depth discussion with the participation of all those present. Ultimately, such decisions were made. At first, it was decided to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session by 9 April, but it was amended on 26 March. It was pointed out that it would not be possible to put it on the agenda by 9 April, as the promoter of the bill would not have been able to come to the Riigikogu on that day. On the recommendation of Commissioner Jaak Allik, we proposed that the first reading be included on the agenda for the meeting on 16 April, but on the proposal of the Riigikogu Board this week was moved to today for the sake of balance of the agenda. Second, it was decided on 25 March to propose the rejection of the draft at first reading. There were 5 and 4 members of the Commission in favour of this decision, with no abstentions. The non-supporting position of the Government of the Republic is summarised in the last paragraph of this rather long and comprehensive text, which I am happy to introduce to you. The Government explains that, regardless of whether there are relevant criteria in the PGS that the Government of the Republic must take into account when deciding whether to grant an authorisation, it is a decision of the Government to consider each case. This, of course, especially if the criteria are not accurately described. In the decision-making process, the Government of the Republic must, in addition to the criteria proposed in the draft, take into account other constitutional values and ensure compliance with other fundamental rights and freedoms, as well as other considerations relevant to the decision on authorisation. In the view of the Government, all these criteria cannot be exhaustively written into the PGS. The Government of the Republic must assess the facts on a case-by-case basis for each decision, and also justify its decision, so that the reasons for granting or refusing authorisation are clear and understandable to all. These arguments were acceptable to most of the Commission. The debate in the committee also tended to the effect that the direct incorporation of these criteria into the law does not really change the task which is before the Government of the Republic and before the Ministry of Education and Research. The task is to examine the application thoroughly and to take a decision according to the circumstances of the school in respect of which the application was made. So legitimising this draft does not really change the situation, and so it is, in a sense, empty of substance in what is very categorically expressed. Irene Käosaar also presented a fairly comprehensive overview of how the Ministry of Education and Research cooperates and, as it was so-called individually, strives to find the best way for each school to meet the requirements of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U88	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U89	Honourable waitress! I would like to clarify whether the representatives of the Ministry of Education were certain that the directions and methods they set out will produce the desired result and we will get out of this situation. Or is there no certainty and it is feared that we will have to resolve these problems again next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U90	If you see as a problem that graduates of basic schools in Russian do not speak Estonian at a level such that they can continue to study in the national language in upper secondary school, then this problem is undoubtedly a problem. However, the steps taken to improve the situation have been taken in recent years with greater certainty and a clearer methodology. I cannot inspire the confidence that the ideal situation has been achieved next year, but I believe that we will approach it step by step.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U91	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U92	Dear waitress, By way of derogation from § 21 of the PGS, the legislator has authorised the executive authority, the Government of the Republic, to use a language other than Estonian as a language of instruction in the upper secondary school or in its individual classes, without, however, laying down any criteria to justify the granting or rejection of this authorisation. The draft Social Democratic Party wishes to set certain criteria for the executive power to use the delegation standard. The Government of the Republic stated that it did not support this draft and that it did not need the criteria set by the legislator in the exercise of its discretion. How would you assess this position of executive power in the light of the principle of separation of powers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U93	The executive has no doubt the right to express its opinion on what the legislative power intends to do as next steps. It is a question of whether the legislative power takes into account the government's assessment of whether the use of the delegation rule needs to be clarified. There is no doubt that the last word will remain in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U94	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U95	Dear waitress, You said that Estonian language skills in primary schools are constantly improving. We could still look a little at the figures in question, even if it's Narva 6. There has been no improvement in a school where the results have been exactly the same in the last three years. The median result of the comprehensive school final exam is 40 points, which is 20 points lower than the B1 level, which is not enough. Do you think people who get 40 points on the exam will be able to study in Estonian in upper secondary school? And if not, what criteria should the government follow in making its decision if language skills are not relevant? Do you think it is right for the government to assume that the local government has failed to do anything or that the principals of the school have erred in something?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U96	If you stick to the subject of the draft you have tabled, the question is whether the measures proposed in the draft will change the situation that you describe as critical, or whether you will add something important so that the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of Education and Research can take steps to improve the situation. According to the majority of the Commission's estimates, which indeed coincided with the opinion of the Government of the Republic, this would not in any way help these graduates of Narva Elementary School to acquire the Estonian language better. This led to the Commission's decision to propose to reject the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U97	Thank you. Please, Jaak Allik, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U98	Dear waitress, The Social Democratic Party only wishes in its draft that the Estonian language skills of teachers of a particular upper secondary school and the Estonian language skills of students in upper secondary school should be assessed when rejecting or making an exception to the application of the local council. At the same time, we do not offer any standards that require one decision or another. What could be harmful to the Estonian language or our education policy by such specific public information about each school?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U99	I do not remember saying, or being in the Commission, that this could cause anything harmful. Rather, it remained to be said that this would not be of any benefit since, when assessing the arguments of the application submitted, all the things that are stated in the draft are anyway taken into account. This is a self-evident part of the decision-making process. In addition, there are factors at stake for each school that are impossible to record exhaustively in the text of the law. When a decision on consideration is taken, the possibility of taking into account all possible arguments is much wider than where the law specifically provides which limits should be maintained for both the applicant and the reviewer of the application.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U100	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U101	The idea that criteria cannot be exhaustively recorded has been repeated here. Give an example of what has been left out of the list that we have proposed. Perhaps the government expressed an opinion, or was it mentioned in the Commission, what is missing from this list?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U102	The point is that in any particular school, the situation may be very different in detail and it is impossible to generalise these differences into some kind of legal provision. I believe you agree with me.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U103	Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U104	Honourable waitress! I have already asked you this question once. When we were discussing the Centre Party bill for Russian schools here, you didn't answer that question, and I will try again. I'm sure you know what a national curriculum is. Can you tell us which subjects must teach our children Estonian according to the national curriculum?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U105	What subjects should be used to learn Estonian in addition to teaching Estonian as a separate subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U106	Yana Toom, please specify your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U107	The question was which subject, according to the national curriculum, places the task of teaching the Estonian language to Russian children.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U108	In the context of this bill, this question remains a little irrational for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U109	Thank you. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U110	Dear waitress, As a very conscientious and substantive member of the Riigikogu, you have certainly been thoroughly familiar with the request for derogation from all these schools and with the decisions of the government regarding them. When you answered a few questions back, you said that the situation of these schools was different. How, then, can it be justified that, if the situation of schools is different in some schools, the average language level is 80 points, the second is 40 points, and if only the pedagogical criteria are taken into account, the same decision was made for all schools? Can you say that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U111	The Commission has not examined all these decisions separately, but we have heard of them in general form through representatives of the Ministry. The decisions have indeed been the same for all these schools, the applications have been rejected. A separate question is the reasons for these decisions why the application has been rejected in one case, why in the other and in the third case.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U112	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U113	Dear waitress, I will try to clarify the question put by my colleague, Mr Toom. In what subjects are there educational tools that are not designed specifically for Estonian or Russian schools, but are designed for Russian children who study this subject in Estonian? Which textbooks have the corresponding vocabulary, corresponding exercises, etc.? The second point: which subjects have the Ministry of Education worked with to prepare them for teaching in transition classes, where Russian children study their subject in Estonian? What work has been done in these upper secondary schools with Russian children who learn Estonian in order to learn chemistry in Estonian, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U114	I am trying to remain within the scope of the draft that is currently under discussion. On this basis, a debate was also held in the Commission. The key issue now is whether the measures proposed in the draft will change the situation in any way or not. We thought we wouldn't. What steps have been taken to improve the situation in schools is outside this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U115	Thank you. I consider the next question as Yana Toomi's second question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U116	Honourable waitress! Has it been discussed in the Commission on the basis of which Russian-language teaching was not granted to those schools that asked for it? There are no criteria currently in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U117	We did not discuss the processing of individual school applications in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U118	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U119	Honourable waitress! As I understand from your answers, the administrative practice currently being practiced by the Ministry of Education should solve all these problems. But we haven't heard what the Ministry still intends to do differently. The methods so far have not improved anything, that is the problem. What is proposed to change in practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U120	I didn't understand the question. Do you mean the way the Ministry of Education and Research assists schools that have reported their problems? Yes, we have had a good overview of the contacts between the Ministry of Education and Research and the management, teachers and also parents of these schools. When it comes to the reviews that have been presented to us, they usually work.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U121	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U122	Good Paul-Eerik, please tell me, have you had a conversation with the socialists about how these people should later study at the university in Estonian if they are unable to do so either in primary school or in upper secondary school? And have they not talked about the plan to make universities bilingual, or Estonian and Russian?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U123	This issue was not under discussion in the Commission, and I understand that the Commission does not want to politicise the whole issue in any way, as has sometimes been criticised. I do not think that we should demand an answer to your question precisely from the sots or from any other party. This really is not a political issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U124	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U125	I very much hope that, unlike some self-thinking members of the Commission, they will understand that the point is that the Russian children wanted to learn the Estonian language. And here's the proposal for the criteria we're proposing. I think it makes sense that if we have not been able to teach the children Estonian properly by the end of comprehensive school, it is difficult for them to demand it even when they receive upper secondary school education. It is like the duty of the state to teach them and to create opportunities for the school in the other way. It would therefore be natural to include in the law clear criteria for the government to make exceptions when not. The legislator has that authority. If these two criteria are suddenly not suitable, I think they make the most sense, what else should be on that list?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U126	The view is that no criteria need to be recorded in the law. Firstly, applicants would then be free to submit their arguments when applying for authorisation, we do not have to try in any way to put them within the framework of the criteria laid down in the law. The same applies to the applicant: it does not have to classify one problem or another at any cost in one school or another under those criteria in order to decide positively or negatively. This is a free dialogue between the applicant and the person handling the application, which should not be limited by the too narrow criteria laid down by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U127	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U128	Honourable waitress! I'm sure you're familiar with the motivational part of these rejection decisions. How do you feel about the government's refusals based primarily on an input-based approach and also assessing how much resources and time have been allocated in the past in order to achieve students' willingness to study in Estonian in the volume specified in the curriculum? Or has it been approached on a "output" basis and evaluated what real result has the money and efforts made for this in each particular school? Which, in your opinion, has the government chosen to judge by refusing to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U129	As far as I am aware, first and foremost, the situation of a particular school has been examined specifically on the ground, which is a much more substantive approach than either of your two, let us say, purely legal approaches. The situation of each school on the ground has been examined and opportunities have been sought with the applicant's representatives to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U130	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Paul-Eerik Rummo! Do you want to open negotiations? Please, Mart Meri, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U131	Ladies and gentlemen, Let us try to understand exactly the substance of this draft. Paragraph 21 is probably the most political paragraph of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and there have probably not been any sessions in which the subject of the language of instruction was not controversial. The Socialist Bill number 369 clearly aims to reduce the emotional burden of this section by increasing legal clarity and obliging the government to take decisions that are understandable, more transparent and more rational from the point of view of Estonian society when it comes to decisions relating to the language of instruction. The subject of the language of instruction requires depoliticisation, more rationality in decision-making in the language of instruction, pedagogical competence and the ability to anticipate socio-economic consequences. This draft concerns the language of study at upper secondary school level. It is important to understand that the requirements for the language of instruction in the upper secondary school are not changed, relaxed or tightened, but that the conditions which the government must bear in mind when deciding on the use of another language of study in a particular upper secondary school are specified. Two interlinked legal processes have been the driving force behind the drafting of the bill. The first process started when several institutions of Narva and Tallinn upper secondary schools applied to continue using the Russian language of instruction by way of exception and the government started processing these applications. The whole process is an example of over-politicisation of school problems with a clear and bad taste, which has resulted in confusion in school families, parents and also in the public. The second incentive for drafting the draft was the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice No 16 on sufficient access to education in Estonian, which indicated the need to guarantee everyone's right to teaching in Estonian at a private upper secondary school established by public authorities. We will be discussing a legislative amendment based on a proposal that is understandable by the Chancellor of Justice in this Chamber tomorrow. The initiators of this draft consider that the control mechanism proposed by the Chancellor of Justice should also be applied when deciding on the language of study of state and municipal secondary schools, so that local authorities do not have the opportunity to give up their upper secondary school education in the Estonian language at all on their territory. I will repeat the basics of the bill once again. First, the student must be guaranteed the right to acquire an adequate education, and second, everyone must have the right to receive education in Estonian at a secondary school near their place of residence. In view of these thesis, the Government of the Republic should take into account the level of knowledge of the Estonian language of school pupils and the existence of an educational environment in Estonian, including competent teachers, when deciding on the language of instruction in a particular upper secondary school or individual class. And that's it. Simple, logical and rational! The Government raised three objections to the draft. According to the first objection, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act already ensures equal opportunities for all students of Estonian upper secondary schools to acquire what they produce in the national curriculum. The government considers that Bill 369 does not contribute to better education. But is there really a level playing field? I have deep doubts about that. Many of us have even met Russian school students in this house as part of the My Country project. Well, the language skills of middle school students are very different! Just because you have graduated from comprehensive school does not mean that you have equal opportunities to continue studying in Estonian. Based on not very accurate data from the EHIS, it can be argued that only about half of the teachers of basic schools with Russian or Estonian and Russian language of instruction have sufficient knowledge of the language of the state. The main content of the second and third oppositions is that upper secondary school education is voluntary in Estonia and that if a young person cannot cope with the poor language of instruction in upper secondary school, then go away. And if the schoolkeeper doesn't have any qualified teachers anywhere to take, such as those who speak enough language of instruction, then shut the school down. It is an objection that gives the subject a serious educational debate. 'Go away, put a stop to the concept of the 21st century's understanding of the socio-economic role of education. If competent teachers are missing, who is responsible for teacher training? Who assigns a training order to universities? Who is responsible for the general learning environment and education organisation? The report on the external evaluation of the Estonian education system published by the Ministry of Education a few months ago has analysed the costs to the state resulting from the failure and interruption of studies. It's a very exciting writing. One conclusion is: "If the average person with basic education were to succeed in bringing the average upper secondary education to a level, society would gain EUR 78000 per person. Thus, if the cost per capita of such a measure is less than EUR 78000, its implementation will be beneficial for society as a whole. " It was a very unwavering economical position. The same point can be expressed in a more precise way. I quote here an excerpt from the opinion of an Estonian language teacher working at a Russian school, dated 9 April: 'The first threat I see from losing Russian upper secondary schools is the disruption of the education of a foreign-language population. The Estonian-language upper secondary school is certainly not suitable for so many students who have graduated from the Russian-language comprehensive school as their native-language secondary school. This, in turn, reduces the number of young people in other languages reaching higher education and the number of young people who have no education, or who are not competitive on the labour market, is increasing. What about them? If they can't continue their education, if they can't find a job, what's the chance? You probably don't have to think twice. " It is necessary to think, and it is not forbidden, and it is not to be ashamed. This is where I call on you to continue this debate by proceeding further on this draft. Continue politically, but also rationally, so that we can avoid overpoliticisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U132	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for a chair of speech from Mikhail Stalnukhin, a representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U133	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Three and four years ago, in my hometown of Narva, I took an active part in the work of the school corps. Once we discussed at length what the results of the state exam in the 9th grade were, and the average figure was consistently below 60%. And then we discussed the possibilities for the school to cover 60% of the curriculum with learning in Estonian, and it turned out that the school could not even reach 40%. That's when our school took this school, which I cared for against the government. That's what we're talking about right now. About three months passed. On one fine day, two fine bureaucrats from the Ministry of Education came to town, Küttis and Käosaar, the great patriots of Estonian. We sat together in the very collective where we made this decision, and it got very strange. There was no mention of the problems in primary school and how the Estonian language should be taught. They were talking about how, by four, this transition could even be formally secured. Following the madness that happened in that room, I tried to illustrate for those in attendance what this transition really means. As you know, according to the law, there are also two representatives of students: one from primary school, the other from upper secondary school. So there was a middle school boy in that room, one of the smartest in this school, supposedly with a very good Estonian language. So I risked it when I asked him my question. I asked him, "What's in your pants' back pocket? He didn't understand. I asked you very slowly, not the way you read the texts on the exam, mooring. What's in your pants back pocket? And when I asked for the third time and he couldn't answer it, I proposed to the representatives of the esteemed Ministry of Education and Research to think about what it will look like to study science in Estonian at this school's gymnasium if the level is what they saw in this room. That was in 2011. It didn't do any good. The question is political, all over it. According to you, Mr Rummo, there are no grounds for not wanting to politicise the subject. It's a political issue, all over it. Because the director was threatened, blackmailed and, after all, we learned that, of course, no one could change the results of the Estonian language exam in comprehensive school, but that was the change in the transition. A new schedule was drawn up: A good teacher, who wanted to have all the children under his hands, was taken away and given them to another teacher. The difference is that one has taught history for tens of years, the other does not even have a corresponding education, but he speaks a little bit of Estonian. It was then agreed with some lecturers at the University of Tartu and some other higher education institutions who agreed on a paper to teach a certain amount of the subject. They're not in school right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U134	Would you like some extra time? Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U135	They're not in school. They didn't come there, but it was very important for the Ministry to draw out 60% of them on paper. And so it was done! If one side is pressurizing and the other side is weaker, then usually the other side doesn't want to die, he gives up. They gave up and made reports in which they happily announced that the required 60% had been insured. And the government didn't give that permission. There's a real circus going on in schools right now. As we once had colleagues here, after a trip to Daugavpils, they told that at the beginning and end of the meetings a sentence was in Latvian and that it was all in Russian. That's one way. Another option is that half an hour of study is vocabulary, subject is not studied. This is bullshit! And that is the result of politicisation. Admit to yourself: you don't think about children, you don't think about the level of education! You have only one goal: to put out Russian education at all. But the main problem is that it leads to more negatives than positives. My colleague Raid asked what language is taught in universities. Juku, universities teach in German, English, French, Swedish, and our children go abroad if they do not have the opportunity to study in Estonian. If you are unable to teach them Estonian in the Estonian school in 12 years, they will simply go away. I know a class that was completed ten years ago by 27 young people. Twenty-one of them are now abroad. They do not lose their higher education, except that they work and pay taxes in other countries. That's what I'm gonna tell you, whose family in the next generation is an absolute majority already abroad. There is no way to stop this process as long as you view education as not education, but as politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U136	Thank you. Does the waitress want a line? Please, two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U137	I just want to draw the attention of the honourable members of the Riigikogu to the fact that the previous very emotional speeches went past one basic question. This is precisely whether the draft we are currently discussing would, as a law, contribute to a change in the current situation, in which there is no doubt that there are some critical issues. I would also like to point out that politicising this issue from any angle is, in any case, wrong. It is certainly not the intention of the Commission or, as we know, of the Government of the Republic or the Ministry of Education to address this issue from a political point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U138	Thank you. Any more calls? There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 369 at first reading. We have to vote on this. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 369 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 30 against, no abstentions. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported. Draft 369 falls out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U139	Our second item on the agenda today is the first reading of the draft Decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting a draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Republic of Cyprus' presented by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Secretary of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On 24 April, the Board of Governors of the ESM shall decide on the main terms and conditions of the Cyprus Programme of the Memorandum of Understanding. In accordance with the Act on the ratification of the ESM Treaty, I need the support of the Riigikogu for this decision. First of all, Cyprus's need for help. Why do you need this help? The Cypriot economic model relied heavily on the banking sector for a long time and began to lose confidence among investors a year and a half ago. The collapse of the loan portfolios of the Cypriot banks, real estate and the building sector caused large losses, which required additional capital of EUR 10 billion. The Cypriot state budget has deteriorated in the years of the crisis: in 2008, the public debt ratio was 58.8% of GDP, reaching 90% last year. Credit rating agencies have gradually downgraded the country's rating until the end of 2013 the status of junk was reached. The possibility to borrow money from the markets was already lost in autumn 2011. The banks were also hit by a reduction in loans from the Greek private sector. The Cypriot banks had many Greek bonds, and the Cypriot banks also made losses as a result of the Greek economic downturn. In anticipation, mistakes have been learned, and within the framework of the programme, restrictions on concentration of banks' risks and rules on supervision will be tightened. Without external aid, the Cypriot Government will not be able to recapitalise its banking system and ensure financing of the state budget. The Eurosystem cannot provide liquidity assistance to banks that are not sufficiently capitalised. In essence, the country is haunted by bankruptcy, lack of resources to service its debts and make current payments. The deteriorating situation in Cyprus also affects Greece, where the situation has recently been stabilised with the support of the second aid programme. In addition, the Commission notes that the Greek authorities have not provided any evidence showing that the Bank's financial situation has been affected by the financial crisis, and that the Bank's financial situation has been affected by the financial crisis and that the Bank's financial situation has not been Once again, narcissistically, I say that these branches are now separated from the parent banks and connected to the Greek banks. More broadly, there is a risk that Cyprus's problem will worsen credit conditions in the European financial sector as a whole, particularly in the euro area programme countries. The uncontrolled bankruptcy of the country may call into question the confidence of the markets in the ability of the euro area to manage crises and undermine the significantly increased stability in the last nine months. In view of the above, it is justified and in the general interest to assist Cyprus. It took time to get to the programme in Cyprus. For a long time, the previous government ignored reality and dragged the reform package into agreements. The applications to the euro area and the IMF were only submitted in June 2012, while the memorandum submitted to you is scheduled to be signed definitively ten months later, at the end of April 2013. A number of Troika missions, negotiations and Eurogroup meetings have been skipped. The three major objectives of the programme are firstly to restore confidence in the Cyprus banking sector, while reducing its share of the economy. Secondly, to consolidate the budget by eliminating the excessive deficit, improve the collection of public revenue and improve the functioning of the public sector. Thirdly, implement structural reforms to support growth. The programme is worth up to EUR 10 billion, with an ESM share of 9 billion and an IMF share of 1 billion. The macro-scenario of the programme is as follows: GDP is expected to fall by 8.7% in 2013 and by nearly 4% in next year. The aim is to reduce public debt to 100% by 2020. The peak in debt levels promises to reach 126% of GDP in 2015. Further on from the measures planned in the financial sector. First of all, the activities of the two major banks will be restructured. Laiki Bank will not continue to be independent and Bank of Cyprus will be redesigned. The "good' share of Laki will be merged with the Bank of Cyprus and around 9 billion central bank liquidity aid will be mobilised, the bad part will be phased out, so that the assets can be realised. For the purposes of the recapitalisation of the Bank of Cyprus, part of the deposits in excess of EUR 100000 will be converted into equity and a more accurate calculation will be made. Totally contributing shareholders and bondholders lose all their money. Deposits below EUR 100000 are protected in all banks. The programme shall not be used to save these two banks. By the end of 2013, the capital ratio of all banks will be increased to 9%. Capitalisation must give priority to private sources, restructuring plans must be drawn up in order to obtain State aid. In order to monitor bad loans, the central bank will establish a loan register, tighten the regulation of lending and bank management. A single reporting system will be established, the framework for crisis management will be updated. An asset management company will be set up to deal with bad assets. In Cyprus, prevention of money laundering has always been a question. The legal framework for the fight against money laundering will be strengthened by introducing provisions allowing for wide-ranging international cooperation in law. The implementation of the measures put in place will be continuously assessed. Following the audit starting in April, an action plan for implementing the recommendations will be adopted during the second quarter. In the second quarter, an action plan to increase the transparency of the activities of legal persons will also need to be completed so that public information flows to the external partners of legal persons in a timely and correct manner. For the fourth quarter, the Central Bank of Cyprus's supervisory unit shall review internal and external oversight procedures in order to enhance the effectiveness of money laundering supervision. Go on, public finance measures. In order to achieve the primary balance of the budget, the surplus should be 1.2% of GDP by 2016 and 4% by 2018. Fiscal consolidation is 7.1% of GDP over a three-year period, fiscal revenue is increased. The real estate tax will be redesigned, updated and increased. The corporate tax rate increases from 10% to 12.5%, the deposit interest tax increases to 30%, the bank fee to 0,15% of the volume of deposits. The measures are also to increase road tax, car registration tax and state fees. Excise duty and VAT will be increased from 18% to 19%. There is also a cut in costs. More stringent cost controls are introduced in healthcare. Housing benefits, special pensioner benefits, fees for government employees and pensioners are being cut, and costly education systems are being reformed. Cyprus is one of the countries that have spent most on education so far, more than Estonia spends on GDP per capita. Finally, structural reforms. Pensions. From 2018, the retirement age will be raised and linked to an increase in life expectancy. Secondly, a pension reduction related to early retirement is introduced. Thirdly, the minimum period during which contributions are needed to obtain a pension is extended. Health. A family doctor's system will be set up. The fee for non-medically insured persons will be increased by 30%. Public hospitals are being reorganized. As always, there's privatization in the program. A register of assets shall be drawn up for the third quarter, including public undertakings which are wound up or privatized. Operating costs are reduced by 15% in public enterprises compared to 2010. A plan will be drawn up to strengthen the governance of state-owned enterprises. There is a draft law on the creation and functioning of state-owned enterprises, which provides for the monitoring of a stronger central government. Reforms on tax collection and management, improve exchange of information, comply with laws and standards governing international exchange of information. The programme also includes labour market reforms. The indexation of wages is reduced to once a year (previously after six months). The private sector will not be subject to indexation until 2014 and will be suspended at all in the public sector. Reforms of the goods and services market. The European Union Services Directive is fully implemented. The regulation of the real estate and competition sectors will be adjusted, the competitiveness and openness of the tourism sector, transparency and competition in the energy sector will be enhanced. What is the cost of the programme? The ESM loan has a maturity of 15 years and an interest margin of 10 basis points above the ESM's own financing costs. It shall be supplemented by a one-off fee of 50 basis points for each disbursement and an annual fee of half a basis point for the outstanding loan. No international aid will be used to restructure the Bank of Laiki and the Bank of Cyprus. Other banks with a total of 24 will receive a capital relief of 2.5 billion. Cyprus needs around EUR 4.1 billion for servicing debts and 3.4 billion for fiscal needs (e.g. one-off payments to compensate for the losses of pension funds stuck in Laiki Pank). The sources of financing, as has been said, are EUR 9 billion from the ESM (2.5 for bank recapitalisation and 6.5 for debt repayment and public finance). The IMF's EUR 1 billion will only be spent on the non-bank sector, that is their rule. Cyprus will contribute a total of EUR 12.2 billion. The banking sector accounts for up to 8.3 billion. This is obtained by cutting large deposits, which I do not have a good word for in Estonian, in English it is hair cut. It is planned to allocate 0.4 billion from the central bank's profits and the sale of gold. The extension of domestic investors' bonds is expected to result in a refinancing of 1 billion and short-term bonds of 1 billion. Privatisation revenues are expected to reach €1 billion by 2016, with 1.4 billion in the longer term. The easing of the terms of the loan taken from Russia will bring savings of 0.1 billion. That would be all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U141	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U142	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, thank you for the panoramic overview of what Cyprus is planning to do. The new Cypriot government has been operating for a month and a half now. Have they been able to report anything in concrete terms in Brussels in addition to the programmes? What is your personal opinion and your colleagues' opinion on whether Cyprus has real opportunities to implement this programme, given that the Cypriot people are not very enthusiastic about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U143	Thank you. I think that the reality has come to an end for the people of Cyprus. When, after the rejection of the first programme package in Parliament, people went to the street to celebrate and Parliament was under pressure, it seems that the country was soon brought back to the ground and Parliament started to move again the same week. In fact, it can be said that the previous, one might say, the Communist government also had something to do and prepare. The most important things related to the current government's programme were the banks' reconstruction and capital control laws, which shut down the money drain taps. This was one of the basic requirements for anything to be done in a country where the main problem is banking. As the control of capital applies at all in the euro area, it is, of course, exceptionally unusual and, hopefully, no longer necessary. So they're still moving on. My personal opinion is that we need to base our expertise and not on our guts. The programme has been put together and the IMF is generally not lost; the countries have paid him their money. The IMF is part of the programme, as is the central bank and the Commission. The reason why I mention the IMF is perhaps that it cannot be ruled out that the European Commission or the central bank could also have a little more interest in deciding the matter and perhaps less sober consideration. Whoever wants to suspect, I don't suspect it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U144	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U145	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! For the first time, Cyprus applied for financial assistance on 25 July last year. So it has taken almost nine months for this process to reach some sort of decision. What is the reason why these conditions and possibilities have been negotiated for so long? If we had reached this phase earlier, would the aid amount be lower?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U146	Thank you. After a decline, private consumption tends to improve, all the more so as deposits and financial assets are quite considerable for the Cypriots, the space will continue. And there are still opportunities to improve matters through tourism. I'll answer you in a bit of meanness, of course, but the evaluation of the program should still be left to the expert. Don't take this responsibility from me! I have noticed that you also dispute Estonia's forecasts, despite the fact that the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance tend to be rather pessimistic, the reality is better in Estonia. But you've written the other way around. Politicians could stop judging the projections, at least don't ask me for an answer, and don't think I know exactly. I refuse to be smarter than top experts, for whom this is the main job.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U147	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U148	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. When we discussed the Greek aid package in the Riigikogu, it was said that about the same amount, 30 million euros that we allocated to the ESM, would go to the construction of a car ring. Can you tell us where the construction of the car circle is and whether Cyprus is planning a similar project?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U149	You once squeezed me out of a comment on this and it ended very badly for me. No, I haven't heard of it. This question also went through the Eurogroup once, and then the Minister of Finance pretended to know nothing about it. We already knew! There hasn't been any more talk about it, and I don't think such a project... But you asked about Cyprus. The story of the circuit was connected to Greece, so let's just drop it, I don't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U150	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U151	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I imagine that some points in this memorandum could seriously disturb Estonian pensioners. On the weekend, I will have a meeting with pensioners and there will certainly be a question about who will lose by adopting this memorandum and who will win. We, the Estonian pensioners, are thinking about it. How would you answer that question?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U152	Thank you. I do advise not to introduce the Cyprus Memorandum to pensioners. They have a much closer subject. Indeed, it can hurt their soul and is not good for them. Why should I think that's what they're interested in? I think it is worth explaining to all of us here in the Riigikogu that we are not only altruists but also egoists when we offer help. The crisis in the euro area and the European Union has, in any case, cost much more than the aid packages. The aid packages have worked well, they have helped the economy to recover and, of course, we will also respond with gratitude for the help we have received ourselves. It is not that we only take money from Europe, but when we have responsibility, we get into the bushes and we talk ugliness about what we can help. It is a self-interested activity, but it also has, of course, a strong dimension of assistance, solidarity. We wouldn't want to hurt any of our allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U153	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U154	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In Estonia, we constantly hear how good and even income tax is to increase the efficiency of the economy. And the truth is, when we look at the statistics, we read the papers, the economy in Estonia grows like yeast. Cyprus, like most Western European countries, has a progressive income tax which, according to the rhetoric of the Reform Party, is a tax that inhibits the economy and only redistributes poverty. You did not, however, propose that Cyprus should give up progressive income tax to achieve economic growth when drawing up the memorandum, did you?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U155	I'm sure they didn't, but they're, to some extent, competitors to us. Let them do better, but the fact that it is economically more appropriate to have a uniform income tax is clear. The question is whether, at the time of tax collection, we need to pretend that it solves social problems. I say that a solution must be found through the budget, not by making tax collection more difficult and by making it more evasive to the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U156	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U157	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister of Finance! No offense, but I will start with Greece. When we discussed the Greek aid package, you pointed out that at that time the Greek public sector's debt was 160% of GDP and private sector debt was virtually non-existent. In Estonia, on the contrary, public debt was zero and private debt was 120% of GDP. What are the percentages in Cyprus compared to Greece and Estonia today? Have these numbers changed in Estonia in a few months?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U158	Thank you. All your numbers were, of course, inaccurate, but you said it in a way that no one could complain. The loan burden of the Estonian private sector has decreased and the attitude has changed greatly. When I'm talking about the private sector, I mean private individuals, I'm not in the way of corporate loans right now. In principle, the debt burden of the Estonian state has not increased, but it has increased statistically at the expense of the EFSF, in addition to being increased by other public sector agents. Of course, our statistics also include the European Investment Bank's over-expensive loan, whose final withdrawal deadline has now arrived and we have taken out more than we can put into effect immediately. It will be gradually put in motion. So this loan is not spent, it is now liquid funds in the Treasury. I think this relationship is very good for us. It is important that the private sector's debt burden does not increase at a risky pace. At present, it even shrinks and prevents economic growth in this sense as well, but the state must be a stabilising factor and provide its service and, nevertheless, make investments in a manageable and risk-determining manner rather than running along.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U159	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U160	Thank you. I'm saying it's done adequately, but there are definitely brittle places. It is a technical problem that we have made a very detailed parliamentary procedure for granting a loan. As a rule, all work is done in English for international loans, under the hands of professionals. We have now changed this practice very much. No one has asked such questions about the IMF, even though the IMF is still in play. No one asks how much Estonia is part of Estonia, why no one cares anyway, etc. The ESM has been created as a small European IMF, but no one has made the IMF political in this way. This will also be our administrative problems. The document was just ready, and we had to translate it very quickly. The Riigikogu, of course, works only in Estonian. We're having a hard time, this pace has been very fast. We just caught him ourselves, and then we had to "secret him." 'Secret' is too harsh a word, but then let's say for how many reasons not to publish. After all, this whole process is mainly focused on the financial sector. At first, there was supposed to be a complete information lock that would ruin our weekends. While the banks are stuck, finance ministers have to keep working, making decisions again. I'm not saying there's been a lot of weekends, but still. If the memorandum comes out, when it's finally agreed, he'll still be banned. This is a very sensitive issue in Cyprus's internal life, which was still agreed, what was achieved, who would make it public, so that the citizens of Cyprus would not hear about the measures of their emergency package from the international media and the Estonian Parliament. This is the background to why translation problems also arise in the simple pace and demands are such. I'm sorry if there's any bugs in it!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U161	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U162	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, It has been decided to allocate EUR 10 billion of loan aid to Cyprus together with the IMF. This was done on the assumption that the overall debt burden of Cyprus would not increase but decrease. It states in the explanatory memorandum that by 2020, it will have to decrease to 102 to 104% of GDP and a peak or a peak of 126% of GDP will be in 2015. At the same time, however, the international rating agency Moody's made public its assessment that Cyprus's debt will increase to 140% by 2017. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U163	Thank you. After all, this is a forecast, and debt forecasts are certainly a sensitive issue, that makes sense. Moody's forecast also had a number of scenarios. You said it would increase to 140%. This is one of the risk scenarios where the level of debt could turn out to be this. We shall monitor the situation at all times and, if necessary, Cyprus must contribute more. I do not believe that those in need are willing to increase their contribution in the visible future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U164	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U165	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, the economic growth of countries outside the euro area in the European Union is greater. Is the reason for the lower economic growth in the euro area also because these problems may not end? How, then, can we attract or tempt new countries to enter the euro zone so that they can be with us and help solve these problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U166	Thank you. The euro certainly cannot be blamed here. We need to look at the countries that belong to the euro area. The euro area has a higher share of the old rich countries, where growth potential is lower and, in fact, inflation is lower. This particularly lower increase in nominal comparison is explained by this. Overall, the economic brakes across Europe are the same and the eurozone is more efficient than the non-eurozone at dealing with the risks of the economy. We have regulations in place, they have only just started to work and are tougher than in non-eurozone countries. This system is certainly more effective in relation to crises.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U167	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U168	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister of Finance! On the previous question, I wanted to ask you about a few figures and to clarify the data I have. You said about my numbers that they weren't accurate. Of course not, you know exactly, but you didn't tell me the bill. Well, anyway, we know the tendency, and you didn't tell me the bill because you knew what I needed them for. The trend is known, Cyprus is making us Greece, they have pushed the people's debts to the country and now they want to get help, just like Greece did. On the contrary, we have people in debt, we have companies, we have private companies in debt, but the state is free of debt. By the way, those countries that do Greece and benefit from this European black box will step out of it. Is it the end of the day that Estonia will be the last to support everyone else?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U169	Thank you. I don't know if I understood the question, but I didn't say anything about these figures. You said that Estonia's debt is zero and that the private sector has 20. It's already terminologically questionable what you mean, that number I don't recognize. In the case of Greece, you spoke of 160. At some point, it was true, but is that the way it is right now? I'm saying it's inaccurate. So I didn't criticize your rounds. As I explained, it is the responsibility of the state to manage instability, crises, to be prepared to react, not to snatch on loans. Citizens and companies have different situations and goals. A person takes out a loan to make a life, buy an apartment or a house. It is clear that he will have a debt burden, especially when welfare in general is growing, just as it has grown at a crazy rate in the last few decades. Loan opportunities make a person make a life purchase, and this is reflected in their loan burden. For companies, it's a natural business risk, borrowed to risk and try to make a profit. The country has no such risk, the state does not make life purchases, it does not offer any life service. Its main function is to ensure continuous security, investment, but not exponentially. As a result, any state lending in a small and vulnerable economy is a risk, as recent history shows.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U170	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U171	Thank you. These mechanisms, which I have been involved in, have not failed. They are very fresh, newly established and operational. They haven't failed. Has anyone been held accountable? The heads of finance ministers fly all the time, I am a rare exception to the finance minister who was re-elected for reverse activities. I'm saying that's why the voter's suffering me in the first place. I'm doing a different job or he'd have thrown me overboard a long time ago. It's also a responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U172	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U173	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I'm gonna do a little detour, but I'm interested in the subject. In answering my question, you mentioned that it is almost classified information, that we do not have to spread it widely, etc. Cyprus MOU we find on the Internet Googled. Aren't we reacting a little over here with our secret information?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U174	Thank you. That was the request, we have not established these rules ourselves. I don't know how and from when it's gotten online, but I've heard it's a fact. Then let's not be the ones who can be shown that we've disclosed prematurely. That's my way. I'm not gonna betray or leak. There was nothing catastrophic about it, of course, but it was embarrassing when it came out before and when it was read by these voters themselves. In fact, the solution of the banking sector did not survive the leaks either. It infiltrated the press, which is very unfortunate, and it probably also cost money. However, some of the money was probably transferred, but I do not have any more detailed information on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U175	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U176	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, When Greece came into a crisis situation and began to investigate how deep this problem was, it became clear that Greece had, at the time when it entered the European Union and after that, provided incorrect data on its financial situation. It's well known to everyone today. Here is the question about Cyprus: are you not afraid that the situation in Cyprus will suddenly not be well understood, and in time there will be more information?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U177	Thank you. As I said, I cannot give guarantees for Cyprus, but there have not been as serious accounting problems as in Greece, that has not been the issue. I believe that, therefore, things are a little, or much better there. Which does not mean that there are no tax fraud and information exchange points in this programme. In any case, there is a hope that the state's solvency will have reserves that it can improve.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U178	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U179	Thank you. Minister of Finance! As regards fiscal policy, the Cypriot Government has promised to reduce subsidies for public pensioners and workers. This is not a promise to reduce pensions, but the English text also talks about reducing some additional support. How is that a sentence to be understood? What are the subsidies currently paid to Cypriot public pensioners and which are allowed to be cut?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U180	Thank you. There really is a different word about them that I cannot say now in English, and it has been translated into special grants or whatever. I cannot tell you how Cyprus, if necessary, would explain, for example, the pension supplement paid in Tallinn, which is what it is. There are some customs we don't know. How political, how regular they are, I don't know, and maybe I don't need to know. It does not, of course, refer to the compactness and logic of the pension system when there are supplementary pensions which are separate from the regular system. It doesn't look good, but they're reforming the system. They reform effectively and link retirement age to life expectancy, which is highly innovative. If it works, it'll take the risks of the pension system down a lot.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U181	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U182	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I followed with interest the debate and also your explanations. Maybe that's the question. Looking at the draft explanatory memorandum, it states that the 10-billion aid programme and restructuring of the financial sector are expected to reduce Cyprus' debt burden to a sustainable level by 2020. To be more precise, the explanatory memorandum points out that the sustainable level is around 102 to 104% of GDP. What is Estonia's sustainable debt burden?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U183	Thank you. I don't think sustainable is the logic that if you're short of money, you raise taxes and borrow. If this is the culture, what has happened in Europe will happen. The fact that 100% of the loan burden is called sustainable is, of course, ironic; Europe has agreed 60%, considering it as the limit. It's still an emergency. A small country has a lower border, a larger one, but, as we know, spending cuts in conditions of democracy are extremely difficult and rare. As a result, there cannot be a solution, especially for an ageing population, to secure a return from debt and to create an impression of well-being. Estonia has done the right thing, and it has certainly brought us more money than it would bring the costs that would be incurred through a loan. All the more so because we have a big foreign currency inflow anyway. It would only mean overheating if we picked up a loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U184	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U185	Thank you. You'd think so. It was the Cypriot left-wing government, which was ideologically unable to do anything. All Cypriot society has very high economic interests in the financial sector, no one can underestimate it, including politicians. Abandoning the economic model, which had created its prosperity in a few decades, after all, is impressive, was difficult. So that's how they stalled it. Recommendations for the adoption of the programme came long before they started to speak at all, when they applied or a fundamental decision was made. I don't have a calendar to tell you right now, but one of the dates was the election of the president. It was intended that the President, who is also the head of government there, would be responsible for this programme, because the newly elected government must implement it. That was one of the reasons we suffered so long.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U186	Thank you. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U187	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The President of Cyprus has promised third-country nationals, mainly Russian citizens, who in this rescue operation have lost more than EUR 3 million in the bank, that they will receive European citizenship as compensation. What's your assessment of this? How do you feel about this exchange?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U188	This is something that I can admire, and I have once publicly known here that the state has such an attitude, such a different attitude to its nationality. But the more rational side is probably that those who have lost money there want to be more closely linked to the state, somehow hoping that this bond will also mean income. I suppose that's true. And if the conversion of deposits creates some kind of stock ownership, which is likely, then it would also be like some kind of idea of economic stabilisation. Citizenship is not very material. I would, of course, add to the smiling that it is not beautiful for other European countries, that citizens who receive their citizenship on illogical and unusual grounds are brought in from somewhere. Whatever the risks, they still exist, otherwise there wouldn't be an institution of citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U189	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U190	Thank you. Dear Minister, The Cyprus problems are really not very new. It is clear that the current economic or banking model could not be sustainable, which is why we very much hope that Cyprus will adopt the programme and seriously start implementing it. This would help rid them of the socialist and bureaucratic burden they have on their shoulders so far. But the implementation of this programme depends largely on credibility, trust between Troika, the European Union and Cyprus. From the times of the Greek programme, we remember that there was a question of whether the statistics and macroeconomic indicators provided were reliable. Has Cyprus faced similar problems, or can we be sure that Cyprus is open, transparent and reliable in its affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U191	Thank you. Opponents would certainly say that this country was more financial capitalist than socialist. However, it can be said that, in terms of economic policy, it will be much more liberal if we manage this programme. Is there a problem with the statistics? Well, that's kind of a cultural fact, isn't it, both tax payments, accounting and the statistics that go there are things that go together. In the case of Cyprus, this has not been such a very specific issue; rather, money laundering has been the issue and the one whose money we are saving. That is why the programme is very different. It is still going on a statistical basis, not in any particular case on external depositors who have helped blow the bubble.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U192	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U193	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister of Finance! More recently, it has been said that Greece and Cyprus, two of the previous EFSF clients, Ireland and Portugal, have remained in the background. What do you consider to be the current situation in these countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U194	Thank you. They are, however, commended. But if you look closer, there are problems there, inertia, habits there, and some things in these countries may surprise you. As you can see from the tie, I have just been to Ireland myself, and I have also wondered. But Ireland is still expected to get out. It is true that there are also very sceptical notes about their economic model. It is seen that growth has been quite real estate and financial sector-driven, long before the crisis, and this cannot continue. In the case of Portugal, on a critical point, it must be added that the economy is still falling quite significantly and the Constitution does not seem to work. The Constitution seems to favour destruction rather than a solution. In any case, some of the measures that have been agreed and have been the basis for obtaining the money must be replaced and the government has dealt with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U195	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U196	Thank you. For both the EFSF and the ESM's previous programme countries, the expectation that the economy will recover and even turn to growth has always been more optimistic than reality. According to the rapid adaptation scenario, the Cypriot economy should also grow in 2015 with private consumption and export support. In the case of exports, this logic may be understood to some extent, but what is the basis for the expectation of an increase in private consumption if this year is projected to fall by 9% and next year by 4%? After all, measures also reduce private consumption somewhat, especially those affecting the banking sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U197	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Although it is said that the deep euro crisis is over and there are certain signs of recovery in the economy, in fact, Slovenia has also been spoken of as a potential need for help. I ask your point of view: how likely do you think that the next customer of the ESM can become Slovenia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U198	Thank you. I'm not a forecaster. I'll stick to what I've said in the media. This answer may have been written a little differently, but the answer is still negative. This issue has not been discussed, there is no aid package. If I were a liar, I'd deny it, but in this case, I'm not a liar. I say that this aid programme has not been discussed, that no request for assistance has been made, and I will not submit it either. They have promised to come out of this situation. But it is also known that they have been relatively slow decision-makers for a long time and that economic growth is stunted. This is all an aggravating factor in resolving the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U199	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U200	Thank you. Dear Minister, According to the explanatory memorandum, neither Laiki Pank nor the Bank of Cyprus will help with international restructuring and EUR 2.5 billion will go into recapitalisation of other banks. My question is: what are these banks and how are they being recapitalised? Secondly, according to the explanatory memorandum, 6.5 billion will go to reduce Cyprus's debts. Where does the state spend this huge amount of money, 6.5 billion that will be paid through the ESM with our involvement?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U201	Thank you. I do not have a list of Cypriot banks, and that is not important, because we do not have the conditions for their reconstruction either. Where the money is spent, it was said. Indeed, the capitalisation of other banks goes up to 2.5 billion. As has been said, private sources are preferred, not external aid. That 6.5 billion goes to different places. It was mentioned here that this money serves loans and, among other things, pays off the losses of pension funds. But these are just fiscal measures. I don't have a budget ahead of me so I can describe everything in detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U202	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U203	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, We're talking about help packages. We have just heard a representative of the Greek Parliament take the aid package, saying that other countries are actually earning from them. You have now had contact with representatives of Cyprus. What are the tonality or speeches by the Cypriot Minister for Finance and other relevant agencies on the aid package?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U204	Thank you. Which finance minister? They've been changing so often lately, but they've been respectable people. I saw now for the first time, but the previous ones were gentlemen with respect, courteous, dignified, sensitive speeches. I have nothing to blame for my attitude. It is a matter of course, yes, of the pace of action that Cyprus had for a long time been clearly nonexistent.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U205	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U206	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Cyprus' contribution is largely due to the inclusion of depositors' money. To some extent, the activity resembles the elimination of such a raging. How do you, as a representative of the liberal party and as a bearer of liberal values, view money being taken away from wealthier people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U207	Thank you. Why go so far in the past? Rather, it's a bit of a graduated income tax kind of thing. There aren't gonna be any squawks out there. Nobody's gonna be transported to Siberia. They're gonna be taken away for you to have. I'm really a liberal. I think everyone has to be responsible for their actions, and if an artificial bubble is created for their well-being, then they have to give up that bubble. The whole society has won there. After all, large deposits are clearly of foreign origin, including they are apparently there for reasons of tax optimisation. This has been understood, for example, by some Russian ministers; I have not invented it myself. So there's quite a few injustices in it. Certain events can, of course, be imagined, for example, when there was some temporary money on the account of selling something, and then the owner is cut off, but that still freaks me out. However, money has been coming up there for decades, beginning with a pure offshore banking model, while entering the European Union according to the rules of money laundering, however, under the conditions of a financial bubble. This wealth must be restored. It's a sad fact that the faster you get up, the more painful you fall.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U208	Thank you. Marika Tuus-Laul, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U209	Thank you. Dear Minister, As regards the approval of the Memorandum of Understanding, Cyprus will receive EUR 9 billion from the ESM. When is the time now planned for Cyprus to pay back this money to the ESM?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U210	Thank you. Like I said, the loan term is 15 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U211	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U212	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, The memorandum noted such a sentence that the legal corporate tax rate should be raised to 12.5%. This gives the impression that Cyprus has legal and non-legal companies subject to different tax rates. But it turns out that the original in English is 'increase the stationary corporate income tax rate'. So it's just a translation error. Are you sure you can put your hand on the heart that the entire text of the memorandum, translated into Estonian, has been translated more or less adequately? The Riigikogu decides by this Estonian translation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U213	Thank you. Minister of Finance! You are currently standing before the Riigikogu and are asking the Riigikogu to approve the Memorandum of Understanding with Cyprus. This document largely contains Cyprus's obligations as to how it must save costs and generate additional revenue. One of these points is that until the end of 2016, a temporary tax must be added to incomes, both salaries and pensions. In principle, it would be like raising income tax, except that an increase of up to EUR 1 500 is zero, no additional burden is imposed on these people, then the tax starts to rise gradually and, in the case of monthly income above EUR 3501, the temporary levy is 3.5% per month. Where did this step-by-step surcharge come from? Was that the idea of the finance ministers of Cyprus, the European Commission or the euro area, and how did you feel about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U214	Thank you. This process is bilateral. The programme is still owned by Cyprus, which negotiates with the Troika, which, in turn, has received guidelines from finance ministers on the limits of how many people are willing to give. There are meetings and exchanges of information all the time, but the agreement is prepared by Troika and Cyprus themselves. As far as tiering is concerned, it is clear that the Cypriot economic bubble has emerged in a way where such logic can be justified. The financial economy, the real estate sector, still generates more income for a limited number of people, not for a simple worker. Secondly, of course, it is also socially that who has more, it makes more sense to take away from it in general trouble. But all of them will pay more, the whole of society will bear this burden and, of course, all well-being will go to shear. So there's no one happy in there right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U215	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U216	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Unlike the EFSF, the ESM countries have paid in real money and this money has been taken from the pockets of their citizens, including our citizens. How has this money been kept so far, and what interest income has earned our tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U217	Thank you. I don't have them on the bill, but the money's still there. The money that's being borrowed has been borrowed. The share capital contributions are still available. I am starting to think that Estonia may not have made its own payment; two of them must be made this year. This fact needs to be checked, because I am not a Treasury employee, and I do not know every payment. But as far as I know, there's still no payment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U218	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U219	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, If we were discussing support for Greece here, then Mr Prime Minister and perhaps you too, if I am wrong, then correct me, you said no, it is not support, it is good business for Estonia, we are earning interest income. But now I read that Estonia will return 5 million euros of interest income to Greece. Do you have to reevaluate your words and say that yes, we still support Greece, that it is not a good deal for us, as was said at the beginning? What are the conditions for Cyprus to become of these interest rates?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U220	Thank you. There's a lot about it. Just because you're talking about Greece right now is like wrestling. Two things, two countries, they're different. I have never called the loan granted to Greece an investment in terms of making money. Terminologically, of course, it's an investment, by definition it's an investment, but it's not an investment where profit is the goal. The aim is stability and solidarity. Interest must always be mentioned, and this is especially necessary when someone is wrestling again and saying that we are giving money to Greece. We are not giving money to Greece or anyone else. We give them loans through the funds, and the identifier of the loan is interest. It's a matter of fact, if we were just going there to make some money, we'd ask for a higher interest rate. Everything has been correct and it is common to these countries. Yeah, the loan pays interest. Yes, this loan is a terminological investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U221	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U222	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, Today we are already discussing a multi-country aid package. These packages of assistance have been accompanied by obligations and theoretically also by supervision, which has also been discussed. Is and how monitoring has taken place? Have you noticed that supervision is already "intense" and has also drawn any conclusions? Or has this monitoring not started yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U223	Thank you. Surveillance is ongoing. Each payment is also supervised, but not only. Every once in a while, it is slightly different from country to country, and finance ministers have on the agenda reports on how it has gone, interim reports and payments reports, whether or not to make a payment. We are interrogating the European Commission, the IMF and the central bank that are involved in this matter. So monitoring is.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U224	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U225	Thank you. Dear Minister, When the eurozone was created, it was accompanied by the creation and validation of several control functions, certain control over euro area countries, etc. Today, when discussing another aid package, we could go back to the past and ask why the control mechanisms have not worked and the whole system has been allowed to go into such a state that one country after another is experiencing a financial crisis. Have you heard that someone has been held accountable when a consumption boom and unsustainable lifestyle have resulted in symptoms that require assistance packages? How has it happened that the firewalls created have been paper and the financial plague continues?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We will continue on the subject of Estonia. When Eurostat statistics are taken into account, we can see a comparison of the third quarter of last year with the second quarter. The main increases in public debt were in Ireland (5.9%), Greece (3.4%) and Portugal (2.9%). Estonia, which has increased its burden by 2.3 percentage points, is the most respected fourth. As Minister of Finance, perhaps you would point out, in terms of education, whether this increase of 2.3 points has been made by the helping of the EFSF, or whether there are literally costs to our own people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U227	Thank you. It goes far beyond the Cyprus programme, but how can I hide it? I'm not quite sure about the quarterly comparison, but I'm saying there are two factors that have increased our debt burden. First of all, our debt burden has indeed been increased by the EFSF, not by the guarantees, but by the loans issued by the EFSF. Secondly, quite recently, we took out a very cheap loan from the European Investment Bank, which was running out of time and which is up both as a loan and, to a large extent, as cash. This is what we will use only to co-finance European projects with money that can be used with a margin, completely risk-free. The third thing, of course, is certain large investments. Let's say, for example, higher education institutions and hospitals have also raised loans. I can't tell you how much it works in two blocks of comparison. But it is not a government decision, it is their decision, which we intend to start to better control and coordinate with the new financial management law, which I hope will soon reach the Riigikogu. So we don't have that kind of debt living, covering current expenses with debts, but this big investment line still works quietly, as it has always been.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U228	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U229	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! I'm asking about Cyprus's sovereign debt. Between 2002 and 2006, it was well above 60% and sometimes even above 70%, for example in 2004. During the period when they started negotiations to join the euro area in 2007-2008, these percentages were 58 and 48.9 in 2008, respectively. I do not want to be overly suspicious, but do you not think that the figures for the two years, 2007, and 2008 could have been artificial or 'painted' statistics, rather than reflecting the reality of the situation, that the actual situation was quite something else then than shown on paper, and that it should have been reacted earlier?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U230	Thank you. I have no basis for such a start. Rather, I am pleased that someone has received the euro zone on the basis of correct figures, not with a concession, which has been the case in history. I am not going to mention these facts now, but I know that compromises have been made and the statistics have also been more relaxed than they are now. I have no reason to suspect Cyprus, and I confirm what I said in the speech: Cyprus's problems with debt burden are those of recent years, linked to the crisis and to the emptying of the financial bubble.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U231	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. And I would like to ask for a co-presentation of the Chair of the Finance Committee, Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U232	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby give you an overview of the decision of the Riigikogu on the approval of the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Republic of Cyprus, which we have today at first reading. The draft was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. a on April 16th. As the initiator's representative, the draft was presented by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. In short, the purpose of the draft. Article 3 of the ESM Treaty provides support to the country in the event of serious financial problems affecting the financial stability of the euro area as a whole as well as of the Member State. In its analysis, the European Commission has found that these conditions are met in the case of a request for assistance from Cyprus. Without the support programme, uncontrolled developments could jeopardise, inter alia, the results achieved in stabilising the situation in the euro area and would also be a source of instability for other euro area countries. In short, about the issues and questions that were raised in the Commission. Several of them, or almost the majority of them, have also been reflected in today's debate in the large hall, but I am still going over them quickly. The Commission was interested in how deposits were secured. The Minister of Finance confirmed that, according to the Memorandum, deposits in all banks up to EUR 100000 are secured. The question was asked what would happen to the EUR 100,000 deposits. The Minister of Finance replied that these deposits were still regulated, some of them being converted into banks' equity capital. There was also an interest in the impact on our budget. At this point, the representative of the initiator of the draft confirmed that the granting of aid to Cyprus would not have any additional impact on the budget or on our debt burden, that we had a schedule for the ESM capital contribution and that it was separate from the guarantee given to Cyprus. They wanted to specify in the explanatory memorandum and the figures in the MOU that wages would decrease and taxes would increase. The Minister of Finance gave an overview of this here today. Interested in the sum of the aid package, the 9 billion split. As has already been said in this Chamber today, 2.5 billion banks will receive capital support and 6.5 billion for the refinancing of various government bonds, the debt-service profile will be levelled, and one-off spending will be financed in public finance. The Commission was also asked about the cancellation of the EFSF guarantee. As the country which participates in the aid programme as a beneficiary usually leaves the guaranteeing countries, there was an interest that if Cyprus fell out, how much Estonia's share would increase. In the Commission and, in my opinion, today in this Chamber, it was noted that the key is that it is relatively marginal, that the increase is really only 0.006%, i.e. almost nothing will change. And this change will only come when Cyprus has actually stepped out of the EFSF. All past guarantees held by Cyprus in EFSF will remain valid. An assessment of the administrative measures taken by the banks was asked whether Cyprus had problems with this. The Minister of Finance confirmed that there was no such feared storm on the banks after they had been closed for ten days. The Central Bank of Cyprus even alleviated some of the restrictions previously imposed. There was an interest in the way bilateral agreements with Russia have been concluded. The answer here was that these agreements have been reviewed and reviewed and that as a result Cyprus will be given some relief. There was also a question of who will decide on the method of converting deposits of more than EUR 100,000 at all. The answer was that in principle Cyprus decides and the Troika gives advice. The Central Bank of Cyprus and the Cypriot Ministry of Finance have received exceptional powers to take decisions on deposits of more than EUR 100 000, and the restructuring of the two banks is at all a prerequisite for receiving payments in May. Since there is such an interesting sentence in the draft explanatory memorandum that shareholders and bank owners contribute to this process, there was an interest in what this contribution means. In real life, betting means losing an investment that has previously been made as a shareholder or owner in principle. Of course, you can participate in additional share issues later when this option arises. The Commission took the following decisions: First, the decision to close the first reading of the draft was taken, with 8 members of the Commission in favour, 3 against and no abstentions. So, the Commission supported the termination. In addition, such consensual decisions were made: to set the deadline for amendments one hour after the completion of the first reading in Riigikogu; to convene an extraordinary meeting of the committee one hour after the completion of the first reading in Riigikogu plenary in order to prepare the draft for the second reading, to examine possible amendments and to make procedural decisions; to propose to the Bureau that the draft documents for the second reading be made available to the members of the Riigikogu no later than Thursday 18 April at 9 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U233	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Sven Sester! We're opening negotiations. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Mikhail Stalnukhin. Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U234	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the issue we are discussing here, I remembered a story I once read about the memoirs of a well-known film director. His name is Eldar Ryazanov. Among other things, he has performed a film such as "The Incredible Adventures of the Italians in Russia," likely seen by most of the hall. The memoirs also mention how this film was taken in Rome. Ryazanov and ten other people from the Russian film group went to Rome, and since Dino De Laurentiis saved money on everything, it was that they only had a daily allowance, which I think was $12 a day. Of course, during the days spent in Italy, these people saved everything because everyone wanted to bring home expensive or sound equipment from Italy in the mid-70s, etc. But by the last Roman night, everyone had some change left, and it was decided that once they could afford to go to the cafeteria, take cappuccino and some cake to have something to talk about later at home. They went to the cafeteria, but they were unlucky because there was a beggar sitting in front of the coffee shop with a guitar or mandolin, I don't remember exactly, and he sang something very sad in Italian, something like that uno momento, uno centimento, etc. Looking at it, they got so pathetic that they took the last pennies out of their pockets and gave it to that beggar. Then they saw him gladly collect their money, went across the street to the store, bought wine, sausage, and ham in front of them, got into a car when he came out of the store, which they could only dream of, and drove away. That's the situation we're in right now. We, being very poor, are only poorer than us in the European Union, I do not remember whether Slovakia or Slovenia, one of these countries, with our own pensions, salaries and social benefits (I remind you of this notorious EUR 19 for children, etc.) are actually supporting these very rich countries. A number of questions arise in this regard. If you look at the average salary in Cyprus, what is the average pension, what are the social benefits, I am not going to scare you with figures, but they are many times bigger than we in Estonia. Once again, the question arises as to why we, so poor, must support them, so rich. That's another thing. A whole plan has been prepared to improve the situation in Cyprus. Look at this bill, see page 4 of the explanatory memorandum! They face pension reforms, changes to the healthcare financing system, privatisation of public companies' assets, labour market reform, including indexation of the wage system. The reform of property tax will be carried out as well as the reform of public administration. It turns out that if you want to stay in the European Union and the euro zone, you must at some point be prepared for someone to command you from the side, you will be told what you have to do in your internal policy. This is a very interesting philosophical question, when will the time come to listen to those who stand by and tell us the main lines of internal politics, in Estonia too. If we agree, do we not agree that someday somebody has the right to violate Estonia's independence by commanding our internal policy? And one more thing. We have heard and talked a lot about these notorious hundreds of thousands of euros that no one is going after. But what about the money that goes over it? This is practically the expropriation of expropriators, as it was called 20, 30 and 40 years ago! It's worse than some revolutionary process. What free market economy can be said of when people are simply being taken away from their money on their own terms? I have no pity for people who have carried money stolen from other countries to the offshores. It is not an accident that 35,000 of the 800,000 inhabitants of Cyprus are now Russians. However, it must be said that this has nothing to do with a free market economy. So, ladies and gentlemen, the Centre Party Group sees more problems in this matter than normal solutions. Our position will probably be expressed in tomorrow's vote. But for my part, I have to say that not all these processes can last that long. And when they begin to reach the end, what will Estonia expect in this situation? Think, please, about this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-17_U235	Thank you. Any more calls? There's no more calls. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 419. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for tabling 419 amendments. April 17, 5.19 p.m. It's at 5:19 p.m. today. Today's trial is over. Have a good night and see you later. Closure of the sitting at 4.19 p.m.
