ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Minister of Education and Science. We will begin the Monday session of the eighth working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U2	Madam Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching a draft law amending the pharmaceutical law today. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu in Taavi Rõiva, Minister of Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I have an inquiry to report to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Our questions concern the family medical system. As in health care at all, there are a lot of problems and unresolved issues in family medicine. If you remember, the National Audit Office found that the availability of family medical care has deteriorated and waiting times have increased. Now these problems are even more acute. Access to health care in the countryside is particularly difficult. We are facing an increasing shortage of staff. Even if all doctors who have completed family medical training were to work as a family doctor, in a few years' time, we will have about 60 family doctors less than we do now. This is mainly due to 72% of current family doctors reaching retirement age. At the same time, the population will also decline, but in view of the increase in the number of family doctors' tasks, doctors will not be enough in the future. Of course, even greater problems are caused by underfunding, lack of research funding and lack of time. There are many other problems. For example, according to the Health Board, the family doctor must not work at the same time in Finland and Estonia. These problems are being solved now. That's all we're asking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U5	Thank you. Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I hand over the draft amendment to § 3 of the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act. The aim of the draft is to equalise the situation of self-employed persons with regard to sickness benefits with regard to the situation of employed persons. The sickness fund pays the sickness benefit from the 9th day of illness, and the employee is paid four to eight. until the day of sickness benefit, however, the employer. Someone for the self-employed is four to eight. sickness benefit is not paid until the day of sickness, because as independent entrepreneurs, they do not have an employer. They have not, until now, had the opportunity to make any additional deductions from their business income in order to compensate for the loss of income due to illness. We offer a 'Finnish' solution to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U7	Thank you. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U8	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu on behalf of the Centre Party Group. This draft provides that pursuant to § 19 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure and § 36 of the Security Authorities Act, the Riigikogu decides to amend point 1 of its decision of 5 May 2011 on the establishment of a Special Committee on Supervision of Security Institutions and the appointment of Mr Priit Toobal as an alternate member of the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities in place of Aadu Black. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U9	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted three draft laws and one inquiry. If the drafts comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to accept them within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall forward it immediately to the addressee. Now, one message. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. A new EU forest strategy for forests and the forestry sector, presented by the European Commission on 7 November, to the European Commission. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Environment Committee to give an opinion on the positions and draft regulation of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. November 21, 2010 at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is on your desks. I shall vote on the adoption of this week's agenda. Please vote! 77 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U10	We will now discuss the members of the Riigikogu Mailis Reps, Eldar Efendijev, Valeri Korbi, Peeter Võsa, Yana Toomi, Tarmo Tamme, Priit Toobali, Vladimir Velman and Aadu in Black. a Request for information on the financing of general education submitted on 14 October (No 362). My colleague, Mailis Reps, to the speaker's desk, please. Colleagues, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U11	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister for Education and Science, Since the late spring of last year, but perhaps it should be said that since the beginning of the summer, quite a number of questions have arisen around the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in this Chamber and in the wider public. There may have been more questions than answers. Today's inquiry is motivated by the desire to talk to the Minister of Education and Research to get answers to questions that are certainly not only asked by members of the Riigikogu or opposition, but which have also caused anxiety and debate among the school people themselves. As we know, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act was passed in June, but its discussions left a number of questions unanswered. For example, I will give you a state examination. Now you can take the state exam by 1 and 20 points. There were certainly questions about renaming educators as teachers, which excluded all support staff from the teachers. The 35-hour definition of teachers' general working hours, the abolition of burden distribution and the problems of financing the work of class managers and support specialists were even more intense. It is even more important to recall, however, that until now we have not returned to § 82 of the PGS, or the funding clause. At the beginning, there was an agreement that it would come to this in the autumn, and today it is clear that if something is to be changed here, it should at least be discussed with the state budget in terms of analysis. Since 24 October, the coordination circle has a new model for financing general education. There are already quite a number of questions about this model. If you browse even today's major pages, including the Postman, you will notice unanswered questions. We therefore have a number of questions for the Minister of Education and Research. They can be divided into three. The first questions relate to raising the minimum wage for teachers. We ask what volume and how the Ministry of Education and Research plans to reduce the number of teachers. It has been repeated that the number of students has decreased almost twice, but the number of teachers has not decreased. There are so many small schools now. We'd like to know what the plans are. Secondly, we are interested in the goal of teachers' salaries. In view of the changes, the question arises as to how support structures and education for children with special needs are to be financed in general education schools. Thirdly, of course, we are interested in the 35-hour overall working time that has already been mentioned. We have a question of whether and if so, to what extent this new financing model, sent to coordination, to what extent the Minister sees these breakdowns and what recommendations he has to share with the public from this platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U12	Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, to the speaker's office, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U13	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu, good MPs and good questioners! I will begin by recognising that the new basic school and upper secondary school law adopted in June or, rather, the amendments to this law, are some good improvements. The abolition of the threshold at the State Exam and leaving school to school decisions reduces the pressure on both schools and students. This pressure had so far been felt by the overemphasised state exams. I must say that no one has called teachers in Estonia. In Estonia, teachers have been teaching for almost 700 years. Just as they were teachers 700 years ago, they are now teachers. As teachers, they are also teachers. The concept of a teacher is broader than that of a teacher. Therefore, the argument that teachers have been renamed teachers is empty and misleading. Teachers' 35-hour general working hours have also been in place for years. I believe that this reduced working time is reasonable and that the education system, led by the Ministry of Education and Research, should continue to work to ensure that the actual work of teachers can fit into this 35-hour period. Regrettably, rumors have been spread as if the 35-hour overall working time meant a new limit for contact hours. It is deeply regrettable that the former Minister for Education and Science has been the driving force in spreading the aforementioned, but also other false claims. I hope that he will find a way of denying his own false statements and that there is no need to use other possibilities provided for by law. [[Laughter.]] Good listeners! We must admit that the decrease in the number of children in Estonian schools should not come as a surprise to anyone. Just as the long-term educational figure and the Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Education and Research have written, the number of children entering the first class is known seven years before the event arrives. It is therefore deeply regrettable that there is currently a school in Estonia where teachers and other school staff go every morning, but for more than two months no children go to school there. However, the taxpayer will heat the building of this school and pay the salary to the people who work there. Indeed, it is not possible to continue in this way. In 1997, 224000 children began the academic year, with fewer than 141,000 children, or 83000 students, this autumn. However, the number of teachers in our schools is as high as before, which means that the number of students per teacher has fallen from 18.7 to 11.9. Let us admit that this development is also positive, because students can be given more attention and teaching is more personal, all of which are basically good. But if this good gets too much, more than in other countries, including our exemplary northern neighbours, it is worth wondering if it is a responsible education policy and if it is not, what can be done to improve the situation. In Estonia, each teacher teaches 11.9 students in the Republic of Finland. There are 16.7 children in the classroom in Estonia on average, and 20.3 children in Finland. I'm sure it's a place to think. If we include international studies in which Estonia has been involved for years and the conclusions of which could be the basis for shaping our education policy, then we know that the teacher's worth of salary determines students' learning outcomes to a much greater degree than the size of the class. It is regrettable that this principle has not been respected in the design of the education system in recent years. But now I'm going to answer specific questions. 'This year, teachers' salaries paid to municipalities became earmarked. Thus, the state's money for teachers must no longer be paid to school support specialists. During the PGS process, however, coalition politicians promised that the future funding of the support structures would be partly (2 to 3%) supported by the State. At present, however, there is no state support. Why has the state not supported any change in the financing of school support structures or a draft law? ' I will start with the question of why the state has not supported any change in the financing of school support structures or a draft law. Good listeners! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft law that you have adopted as a law on the basis of which, for the first time, I would stress that for the first time, the state is obliged to support the provision of support services. Neither the Minister of Education Mailis Reps nor anyone else in previous years has submitted a draft law as a member of the government which would have given the state an obligation to support the support structures. Such a change has been made for the first time. The Ministry of Education and Research intends to finance this activity in the coming financial period with more than EUR 20 million. It is therefore not true that the country has not made such proposals. We've made them. I have defended this bill from this very remote area, and I am pleased that the Riigikogu passed it as a law. However, I know that you did not mean this, but that the state has not supported local authorities in terms of funding support staff. The State does not have such an obligation in accordance with the will of the legislator. The Government of the Republic is created to comply with the laws; it cannot arbitrarily spend money for what the legislator has not foreseen. I very much hope that the proposed legislative amendment adopted by the Riigikogu will improve the availability of support staff in schools, especially in those areas where the current organisation has not ensured uniform access to support services. Sorry, I started answering the second question! I come back to the first question. At least in written form, when it arrived at the Ministry of Education with your signatures, it sounded like: 'A new financing model in general education needs to be established to raise the minimum wage rates for teachers. In addition, the school network and the number of teachers need to be substantially adjusted. On what scale does the Ministry of Education and Research plan to reduce the number of teachers based on its own analyses? The number of students has decreased almost twice, should such a rapid decline occur in the faculty? ' Firstly, the new financing model, which is being developed and introduced by the Government of the Republic regulation following the adoption of amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, has not been designed to increase the minimum wage for teachers. The minimum wage for teachers has risen in recent years without a change in the financing model, which will rise significantly from 1 January next year and will certainly also rise from 1 January 2015. It is true that in the coming years, a change in the ratio between students and teachers is expected. I believe that our goal to reach the same level as our northern neighbours, both in terms of the ratio of students to teachers and in terms of class coverage, is a responsible education policy. In public schools administered by the Ministry of Education and Research, we will certainly achieve this in the next few or three years. We hope that this objective can also be achieved by local authorities and other school holders. The Ministry of Education and Research will endeavour to contribute to this objective through flexible funding arrangements. I would like to draw attention to another point. The questioner has claimed that this decrease should be quick. The decline in the number of students has long taken place, which took more than 15 years. However, I do believe that we do not have to wait 15 years to change the number of teachers, but that this will happen in a shorter period of time. The third question: 'At present it is unclear what will be the basis for the multiplication of the future financing model for general education. Since teachers' hourly hours were abolished and only 35 hours of total working time were maintained, it makes sense that 35 hours will also be the basis for the coefficient. Please explain what will be the basis for the multiplication of the financing model for general education. ' I must admit, I do not understand this question. I do not understand what is meant by the basis of the multiplication of the financing model. If the good questioners find a way to clarify this, I am grateful to them for it. However, I would like to say a few words about the proposed financing model more broadly. I will start with what could be a sensible school arrangement in densely populated areas, where the fulfillment of the class is not the result of a shortage of children, but the decision of the school organisation. We have unanimously found that upper secondary school could have a ceiling of 32 students and 24 pupils in primary school. I am not talking here about the classes of children with special educational needs, because there are much lower performance standards and it is intended to be taken into account in future funding. So in densely populated areas where there are more children, it is appropriate to refer to the standard of performance of the class, which gives a teacher-student ratio of 15 in primary school and 16.3 in upper secondary school. If 15 students are retrieved for 1/15 teachers per student or for each teacher, we can also recycle the required number of teachers' positions according to the curriculum. For each teacher's position, the salary we have been talking about should come to EUR 960 in 2014. Understandably, such fillage is not possible in smaller cities and settlements, let alone rural areas, and therefore schools must be financed with a much more generous hand. With a slightly more generous hand, we do so now even though the legislator has wanted to be funded only on a bounty basis. In order to ensure that funding also takes into account regional characteristics and curriculum requirements, we have planned an amendment to § 82 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act. Funding will be based not only on the number of students as it has been, but also on the number of students and regional characteristics, taking into account the requirements of the curriculum. This means that if the class fill rate (24 children) is impossible to meet because it is too large, then the school will also be funded if there are 21, 18, 15, 12 or 10 students in the class, and even if there are only 2 students in the islands. The financing coefficient of the local government is increased so that it differs from the coefficient of Tallinn, Tartu and other major cities by one and a half, two, three or ten times. Good listeners! In my opinion, it would be malicious and irresponsible to think that the Ministry of Education and Research, based on the studies that have been carried out both internationally and at the level of our country, would envisage a financing reform that will lose the basic school close to home. I assure you that funding for basic schools close to home, and in particular small municipalities, will increase relatively in the coming period. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U14	Thank you very much, Minister. You have many questions. Starts with colleague Aivar Riisalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U15	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! Your introductory part reminded me of the idea that the school network is relatively easy to plan because the number of first-class students is known seven years in advance. But nevertheless, we have empty schools. Does the Ministry have any formula that, in addition to the number of children born in a given year, also takes into account the approximate rate of emigration of very many families with children who have recently started leaving Estonia to see how many children are going to school? That way we could optimally plan the school network. Do you have some kind of exodus coefficient or do you not think about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U16	Thank you. In fact, the situation is more complicated; it is not enough to read only the children born. We know that not all children go to schools near home or municipality of residence, movement takes place within Estonia and also out of Estonia. All these circumstances must be taken into account. This dynamic was already taken into account in the first rather comprehensive study carried out by Praxis in 2005. Many processes have accelerated, and many processes have slowed down. We know that there are local authorities where the number of children has fallen more than twice. But there are also local governments where the number of children has increased, despite the decrease in birth rates. All of this is largely due to internal migration. So these calculations have been made. We have also informed schoolchildren, or local authorities, about them. Given the logic of the Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act, under which basic education is the responsibility of the local government (until the adoption of the Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act, it was also its task to provide general secondary education), we have not considered it reasonable or appropriate to violate the constitutional autonomy guaranteed to local authorities in the performance of their duties by law or executive power. We hope that constructive cooperation will continue with local authorities so that there will be no more cases such as those in the area of Häädemeeste, for which I have given an example. I believe we've all learned from the need to plan the school network years in advance. The changes in basic school and upper secondary school law and the proposed financing model will, in my opinion, help to avoid such problems in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U17	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U18	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister! You were wrong, not the Riigikogu passed the law, but the members of the Riigikogu who belong to the coalition. There is a very important difference here, and I think that the people of Estonia should also be told that. However, the Estonian Educational Workers' Association has stated that raising the minimum wage for teachers to 800 euros is not enough and does not show that this profession is valued. When can we see that the teacher's salary is at least equal to the average wage in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U19	Good questioner, I hardly understand anything now. I have always understood that the laws are passed by the Riigikogu. At least that's how I have understood the Constitution. But now it turns out that laws can only be passed by a part of the Riigikogu. That's not how it's written or reasonable. The Riigikogu is still one of the elected bodies of the people, and the laws it adopts are for everyone, not only for the coalition, but also for the opposition. Is the increase in teachers' pay sufficient? It is not enough, that is why we must continue to work together to raise teachers' pay. I have repeated from this speaker and the public, and I repeat: the increase in teachers' pay is made up of three sources or components. Firstly, additional funding from the state budget in line with economic progress and tax revenue growth. It's more or less one third of the salary increase you need. The second component is due to the fact that we are bringing the ratio between class coverage and students and teachers to the level that our northern neighbours, especially in Finland, and also in other developed countries, have. The funds will be increased by 10%, 11%, 12% or 13% depending on how to operate. This source must also be used. The third component comes from what I have talked about many times: we need to review school spending and channel more money into teachers' salaries and less money towards other expenditures. Again, it is good to make a comparison with the northern neighbours: there the pay of teachers amounts to 53% of the cost of general education schools, and in Estonia only 36%. There are objective reasons for this, but believe me, 101⁄2% is also hidden here. It doesn't come in one year, it's the result of a longer effort. But I know these steps are already being taken. Teachers' wages will increase nearly twice as much next year as in the Estonian country on average, at least in the public sector. I am quite sure that this growth will continue in 2015. I am certainly not satisfied with what we have planned for 2014, but I am convinced that education policy is on the right track. Teachers' wages must grow. I would like to stress once again that once this money has been sent to the schoolteachers, it is our common concern that it will reach the teachers in all the municipalities. I've been assured it's gonna be like this. I hope that the words that the local government leaders, especially the newly elected leaders, have said will also hold water. If so, before Christmas, teachers in Tartu, Tallinn and several other large municipalities will expect significant wage growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U20	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U21	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Your demagogy, of course, is pathetic. If you have already decided to destroy the Estonian education system, then you could have the courage to take responsibility for this with your rubber seal, which is the coalition of the Riigikogu, not the entire Riigikogu! But my question is very practical. As I understand it, in a large city, for example, in Tallinn and Tartu, 32 students are required to sit in the class so that the teacher can fully receive his promised salary. If the number of students in upper secondary school is less than 32, the teacher's salary will also decrease in the same proportion. So let me get this straight with the system that's going to start now. If I'm wrong, what is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U22	It's not quite the case that children are counted in class and that they're gonna pay their wages. The state allocates money to the local government budget based on the number of students in this municipality and taking into account regional characteristics. The municipality organises the completion of the classes on the basis of established standards. It's his right. Thus, the change in class occupancy should have no effect on the state's money or on the salary of the teacher. I think that such, I would say, that the thought developments that have been brought to ridicule do not contribute in any way to resolving the fundamental issue. If we want to raise teachers' salaries, then, as I have already said, we have to work in three directions. Firstly, there must be an increase in state allocations, for which the Ministry of Education and Research, the government and, ultimately, the Riigikogu are responsible. Secondly, the school network that we have failed to do for years and years must be organised. The report of the National Audit Office, which you discussed very recently, has repeatedly referred to this, but unfortunately nothing has been done in previous years. Thirdly, internal resources need to be reviewed. I'll give you just one example. When I go to schools in Finland, I have asked where are the wardrobe aunts. I have been told that they are not rich enough to employ people whose only task is to guard their clothes. That's why quite good Finnish schools hang racks or closets where the children who come to school put their clothes and then start their studies. I believe that it is worth thinking more about such opportunities than we have so far, no matter what the reasons why these decisions have not been taken so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U23	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Under no circumstances do I consider it appropriate for the Minister of the Riigikogu to threaten the former minister and the current member of the Riigikogu, as you did in your introductory speech, by threatening Mailis Reps. You also brought comparative figures in the introduction, for example, on the general working time of Estonian and Finnish teachers and on the fulfillment of the class. You forgot one significant number out of this line. It would have been nice to say that the salary of an Estonian teacher is so many euros and that the salary of a Finnish teacher is so many euros. But my question concerns the same working time. According to the new PGS, is it theoretically possible that the teacher is 35 hours in front of the class to teach and teach?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U25	You had a long introduction, and I'm taking the opportunity to do a little introduction. My respect and unconditional respect extend to all members of the Riigikogu, but lying remains a lie and no matter who is lying. We keep two things apart: respect for occupation and status, and a simple statement that if a person is wrong, then his words must be corrected, or proof that someone else is wrong. But now for Finnish wages. I do not think I should explain to you why in Estonia wages are lower than in Finland, but I am glad that wages have risen and will continue to rise in Estonia. Regardless of what we decide or do not decide here today, it can be quite certain that there will be a time (and not so far in the future) when the wage levels in Estonia and Finland are quite close. After all, we are in the same condition as some good decade ago the Finns were when they looked at a bigger brother, Sweden, and compared wages. Then came the time when Finland's gross national product was higher than Sweden. This is hardly impossible for Estonia, too. I believe that on the issue of teachers' salaries, it would be reasonable to abandon political confrontation as soon as possible and to start a daily, peaceful, rational, deliberate debate. I very much hope that our interests are in common. That is why I assure you that do not leave anyone here in the Republic of Estonia the impression that a credible, sustainable and responsible solution would be if a good political force, either on the right or on the left side, were to decide, for example, to double the allocations for teachers' salaries. This solution is not realistic and you know it as well as I do. I repeat, there is no objective of increasing the water-solidity between the opposition and the coalition on the issue of teachers' pay, rather, looking at the opportunities that can be realised by reorganising the system in such a way that, above all, teacher pay will increase if we really consider it a priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U26	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U27	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. As you have mentioned, centres of support specialists are being set up in the counties. Since when do these centres start working, and why should the local authorities even keep support specialists on their payroll?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U28	I will start by saying that this point will enter into force from 1 September 2014. We're in the process of preparing it, we appreciate how many more of these specialists would be needed. Statistics say that there are 705 support specialists in municipal schools (specialized education, school psychologist, logopaedic and social pedagogy), 81 in state schools, so a total of 786. Our analysis shows that this service is not sufficiently available in small municipalities. It is estimated that a hundred new posts would be needed, and I would stress that this means a hundred new jobs in the public sector, in order to provide support professionals at the same level as in the developed countries, particularly the Nordic countries, which set an example for us. When you read the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, you will see that the service provided by these centres is not intended to be offered free of charge to local authorities. The service is provided on a cost-based basis, the immediate costs should be borne by the local government. It would be a subsidised service of the State, but the costs would not be fully covered or provided free of charge, as it would break the existing and functioning system. I am quite sure that in the coming years, we will be able to strengthen the provision of support services throughout Estonia, particularly in the same basic schools close to home that we stand for, on the basis of the revised Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. For more than 20 years, since the adoption of the First Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the funding of support specialists has been the responsibility of schoolkeepers. Read the law, good people! I'm not malicious, I just can read. If I'm wrong, bring me the paper and show me I'm wrong. This has been the responsibility of the schoolteachers according to local governments or the text of the law, so the legislator has wanted it. For the first time this spring, we also committed ourselves to the country by means of a government bill in this area. The country's responsibilities have increased, so I find it very difficult to understand the reproach that we do not want to support the provision of support services. Once again, it will probably take time for the system to start on 1 September 2014, to develop it in full, but I am sure that the support services will be more accessible after the system has started.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U29	Please, my colleague, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Allegedly, the Ministry of Education and Research has proposed an amendment to the draft State Budget Act 2014 which wishes to move the Government of the Republic to the Education Expenditure Support Fund under the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research. Has the Ministry of Education and Research made such an amendment, and if so, would you like to distribute the municipal schools' money on the basis of a decree?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U31	Thank you. Education support is currently distributed under the Government of the Republic regulation. I do not know of any proposals at either the level of the law or the draft law, either the level of the government's or the level of the ministry's proposal, which would like to change the procedure. The distribution of education support to local governments will continue to be planned on the basis of the decree of the Government of the Republic, as has been the case so far. It is true that one change has been proposed which, I think, is reasonable and which I draw attention to here, although the draft law is still in the government's round of coordination. So far, the rules and amounts for the distribution of money have been established each year, as is known by the Government of the Republic's decree, so the rules are amended every year. I do not know of any year in which the Government of the Republic's regulation on the establishment of rules and the allocation of funds would have been adopted before the beginning of the current financial year. In fact, local authorities have learned about education support at the beginning of the current financial year and the latest date I have managed to dig out of history has been around April 20, April 21 or April 22. So it has taken more than three months for rules to be established and for money to be shared. Future funding will be organised in such a way that the underlying rules, i.e. conditions and procedures, will be adopted by a government regulation without a time limit. Local authorities could assess the expected amount of money much earlier than at the beginning of the financial year. The government or, at least according to current plans, the Ministry of Education and Research would like to send a specific amount to the Riigikogu as an annex to the state budget for the coming financial year. So, for example, if you come here with the draft State Budget Act 2015, there is a draft government regulation, where the distribution of funds between local governments has already been written down. Legal certainty for local authorities, as well as fiscal certainty, would thus be increased. This is a principle that has been endorsed by all partners. I believe this is also appropriate. I cannot tell you where the idea might have arisen that the Minister of Education would start to distribute money on the basis of an order, because there is no basis for such claims, which are regrettably put forward and which I have called false from this speaking board.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U32	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Education and Science! My question, too, concerns the budget for next year. This state budget has planned EUR 210 million in support of educational expenditure, a change of 4.7% compared to this year. Within this EUR 210 million, there is also support for teachers' labour costs. You promise an 11% raise. Are you explaining how, based on this information, this raise can still be carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U34	How can this be accomplished? First of all, within education support, it is not just teachers' pay. In well-rounded lines, in the current year, in 2013, the total grant will be EUR 200 million and 160 million will be paid by teachers. So when we are talking about an increase in the support fund from EUR 200 million to EUR 210 million, all this growth goes into the increase in teachers' salaries. In addition, a number of state schools, state secondary schools and schools have increased during the current year. Consequently, children studying there will no longer go to municipal school, and municipal schools will receive less support. In addition to public schools, the number of students will be increased next year by private schools. The number of pupils in municipal schools is also decreasing. If we look at the number of teachers and analyse data from previous years and this year, we will see that the number of teachers has already started to decline. If we sum all this up and divide the money allocated by the number of teachers who will be working at school next year, we will have an average sum of EUR 960 per month. You would, of course, like to know more about the adjustment. There is one major obstacle to doing so. The law states that the number of students on the basis of which money is distributed between schools will be taken as of 10 November, or yesterday. I very much hope that this situation is now fixed. I have asked my colleagues to fix it and make these adjustments. I hope that, at least in the Committee on Culture, I will then be able, on the basis of the data that should actually be the basis for funding, to present all this more precisely and to show that this EUR 960 is really allocated to every necessary teacher position.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U35	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I come back to the subject of support specialists. According to you, the budget for the coming year will be EUR 20 million. That's how I figured it out. But does this amount include all the support specialists, or is it intended for those support centres that should be put to work from autumn next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U37	Thank you. If I made an inaccurate statement or made a mistake, I'm sorry. I'm going to be more specific about the point I put on this speaker board. The proposed action, supported by the European Structural Funds, to develop and ensure the availability of teaching advice and career guidance in 2014 to 2020 foresees around €35 million for the implementation of the system. The system will in particular allow smaller municipalities to order support services under more favourable and flexible conditions. If I now summarise this whole measure, it will not only involve financing support services, but will be part of this measure, in a seven-year perspective, from 1 September 2014 to 2020. At what pace this measure will start, it is very difficult for me to say today, I do not know how to report it to you in terms of number of years. In very thick lines, you can recite from such figures that if we have 800 support specialists from all over Estonia and one of the support specialists' positions costs EUR 17000 per year, then 100 specialists will need EUR 1.7 million. This is the minimum extra money that needs to be channelled into that system. If you multiply it by seven years, you get about the number I talked about earlier. This EUR 20 million will certainly not come in 2014 and certainly this amount will not be as high in the first year as in later years. This system requires a transition or a build-up period.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U38	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U39	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You were talking about local government opportunities. There's supposed to be a lot of them, a lot of them. But life shows that the Ministry of Education and Research makes provision for general education schools in rural municipalities and cities targeted. I'm going to give you an earmarking. There is a feeling that the Ministry is taking away the opportunity of local governments to make the necessary changes to their budgets. I have a question for you, Mr Minister: why does the Ministry want to restrict the decision-making power of local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U40	Thank you, good questioner! The reason is actually very simple. The Ministry of Education and Research began to analyse, on the basis of data provided by local authorities, what kind of remuneration is actually paid to teachers, those teachers who work in local government schools. This can be done through balance sheets submitted to the Ministry of Finance. True, there were also minor mistakes, but we have made this system quite reliable in about two years. We have come to the conclusion that, in recent years, not all the money that the state has allocated to local governments has been paid by teachers. I will take this opportunity to make a 'little reverance' and say that if this statement sounded as a reproach to all local authorities, it is obviously unfair. There are a number of local governments in Estonia that spend significantly more on teachers' salaries. There are municipalities that spend twice as much on teachers' salaries as the state allocates, very many spending more than 10 to 20%, but on average over the entire Estonian state there are still 3% at the beginning, then 4% and then even almost 5% of the money is not paid out to teachers. That means we have a problem. If we want to raise teachers' salaries and allocate more money than in previous years, but this money does not reach the teachers, then the teachers are rightly dissatisfied. Perhaps if our joint effort does not materialise in practice and all the money, at least what has been allocated, does not reach the teachers, then making it a targeted step is a forced step. I assure you, I do not like this step. I wouldn't, I wouldn't, but there's nothing I can do. This comparison may be inappropriate, but I would say that wearing water with a sieve is not a very profitable activity. The only reason for this change is that we want to make sure that all this money reaches the teachers. We may be able to overcome this restriction if we share the common goal and realise it in practice. Maybe we'll take that rule out of the Government of the Republic regulation at some point. But before the teachers say they've gotten all the money, it would be premature to do so. That was my explanation. I certainly do not think that such steps should be taken if everything works. But life shows that unfortunately, it doesn't always work.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U41	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U42	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I have a quick line. I note that you and Jürgen Ligil, and some of the more arrogant members of the Government of the Republic, have the custom of calling anyone who does not agree with you and does not continue to praise you liars. It's not like that. We have received information from the other party to this regulation, the schoolteachers, and it is our duty to ask you what is going on. Because if we don't, it'll all be done in office silence. You mentioned that local authorities have always had an obligation to provide special needs education, psychologists and social education services for those who wish to attend school. In fact, it was written into the law when in 2010 the Minister of Education was your party partner, Tõnis Lukas. At the time, there was a serious debate about the fact that if the municipality were to be obliged to do so, a revenue base would have to be set aside. As a result, the Government of the Republic signed an agreement with local governments that the salaries may also be paid from the teachers' payroll fund. This agreement is signed by your party partner. Why don't you stick to this deal anymore?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U43	First of all, I come back to the argument of lying. This claim was specific. If you want, I can fix it from this speaker, but I don't think it's the best place to do it. A false claim is the responsibility of the plaintiff, and only he, and no one else, bears that responsibility. I therefore think that there is no point in developing an abstract discussion about who lied and labeling the waitresses as arrogant or otherwise. My arguments are specific and taken from the article on the Earthpaper, they are black in white, and I intend to ask for their withdrawal or proof to the contrary. I believe this is a natural form of communication. Of course, if a person is wrong, he must correct his mistake. I now come back to financing support services. Support specialists were in Estonian schools long before Estonia regained independence in 1991. The work of the support specialists has been funded by school holders for all these years. It is not the case that Tõnis Lukas passed the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in 2010 and created the need for support services. I stress that support specialists have been in school all along, and their work has always been financed by schoolkeepers. There has been no fundamental change. That is why I think it is inappropriate to refer to the obligation on the local authority to provide support services by creating a new service in a completely empty place. It is true that the service of social pedagogy had not previously been formulated at the level of the law. However, the legislator did not include the obligation to finance this service in the law. I do not think it is worth discussing, even though we have held this discussion here before, whether the Government of the Republic has the right to conclude financing agreements outside the law. If we follow the principles of the rule of law and separation of powers, it is quite clear that the Government of the Republic must act on the basis of the law. That is why I say once again, not for the first, second or third time, but for at least the fourth time, that we are adopting an amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and that we are writing there the responsibility of the central government to finance this service. Of course, we must report to ourselves on this: then we must also find the sources of funding and, of course, with it, we must reduce the funding of local authorities, because they are being taken away from one obligation. This is now the responsibility of the local government, and if this obligation is taken away, funding must also be taken away. I believe that this debate must be held calmly, without emotions or labels. This discussion is certainly necessary, and I will say once again that I have invited everyone to do so. This will be possible when the government submits an amendment to § 82 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and we will discuss it. I'm sure it won't stay behind the Ministry of Education and Science. Maybe so, but maybe in a different way, it's a forum for discussion. However, I do not believe that agreements that are not based on the law or verbal promises can create a new right. This is not an instrument to solve problems. I think that it is not good practice to have such agreements, say, friends or politicians in one case or another. This is a problem between local authorities and the state and there is no need for such an argument. So the Ministry of Education and Research is asking for clarity, and the sooner we achieve it, the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U44	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U45	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. That was an interesting step forward. You referred to the cooperation agreement between the Government of the Republic and local governments, which has so far been regarded by local authorities as a very important document, simply an agreement between themselves which has no legal force. But you said, in answer to the third question of inquiry, that you needed further clarification. Perhaps we will then offer you an opportunity to explain this new funding base. You take the number of children on the one hand, the coefficient is based on the number of children in the municipality, on the other hand, the product is based on the number of teachers' positions. What number of contact hours do you consider in the number of teaching positions if you base your curriculum on? Is it 21, 24, 30 or 35 hours?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U46	21.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U47	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I am opening negotiations and I would like to ask my colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U48	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Once, over 30 years ago, a friend of mine told me a story. He walked on a nice night in Tallinn on Matrossov Street at the time. Maybe a bunch of pretty polite young men came out of the dark and suggested that he buy the concrete bin. You remember the concrete tours that stood on the streets. The proposal was so good, he couldn't say no when he looked at their faces. He pulled out all the money he had on him and gave it away. But then, when he wanted to leave, he was politely told how to stay with the urn, so he bought it, so take it with him. Not only did he lose his money, he had to carry that urn a few hundred yards. This story came to mind when I thought about how education life was organised in Estonia. Not only does the Minister of Education and his rubber stamp take money away from us, he also gives us the responsibility to carry this burden. In contrast to the situation I described, we can't throw this burden down. Demagogy and, once again, demagogy, I think that's the only thing they can do. We know perfectly well that there will be no draft legislation on the coalition side; the amendments will only come when some page sent from the ministry has been jerked off to the members of the coalition. But then they keep talking about the responsibility we all bear here. I'm not taking this responsibility! I have always opposed the destruction of the Estonian education system, just like you, colleagues, who you are in this Chamber right now. There is no way to agree with this action. I have a few more words to say on one subject. The person who is standing before us now must not be the Minister of Education, not under any circumstances. Well, here's what's gonna happen. There will be new funding conditions and we will be forced to shut down some schools in major cities and to concentrate teachers. Everyone's gonna get into it if they don't want to. I think the Minister of Education is gonna have a good time with this. He thinks it's a lot of fun. In a situation where I read it in one of last week's news reports, AS Eesti Energia seeks physics, chemistry and English teachers in Ida-Virumaa. Not the Ministry of Education is looking, but Eesti Energia is looking! Laugh or cry, but that's the way it is. In this situation, we're going to optimize schools. You know what that means? This means that the Minister of Education does not believe that the situation in Estonia will change, that more children will ever be born and more teachers and schools will be needed. At the moment, everything is being driven under a single line: the least possible funding. I advise the Estonian people to think about the thoughts of the person who is in charge of our education. He simply does not believe in the future of Estonia. He thinks he's going to go like this, all the way to zero. They're all emotions, of course, but there can be nothing else after today's conversation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U49	Thank you very much. A colleague of the speech chair, Mailis Reps, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U50	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Minister of Education and Science, still respected! Now we have reached this stage of two-way talk, where the minister says that a member of the Riigikogu is lying, and it is up to a member of the Riigikogu to bring out the positions he does not agree with in the public space or in this hall. It is not a question of personal liking or dislike; it is a question of education in the future. What were we talking about in this inquiry, and what are the main arguments focused on? First of all, when the Minister said that the abolition of the threshold for state examinations had positive consequences, this could be accepted and could not be accepted. The proposal of the Centre Party Group that the State Exam should receive 20 instead of 1 point was well-founded. We have had the requirement of 1 point in the state exams and this was generally ridiculed in society. Perhaps the Government of the Republic, when proposing this, had different objectives with the state examinations. As such, this proposal did not find a supportive background in the spring, and the Riigikogu decided by a majority to replace 1 point with 20 points. The fact that both 1 point and 20 points are now valid is certainly one of the most interesting legal errors that the Riigikogu has experienced in its history. But that's it. Is it better to use the word 'pedagog' or the word 'teacher'? This is definitely a question of the future. I think, at least for the next 20 years, I will be exposed to education in many ways because I have four small children growing up, the smallest of which is only two years old. So I have a chance to see, for quite a long time, I may not be in politics, so I don't know what the real consequences of the debate over this pedagogy and teacher's job title are. At least the school people, like the opposition, have understood the change made by the Government of the Republic in such a way that the only reason why the word 'pedagog' was replaced by 'teacher' was that the support structures were not financed by teachers' salaries. Now I'm talking about a 35-hour load. The Minister of Education and Science is certainly familiar with the letters coming to the Ministry of Education and Research. The Association of Educational Staff has given several examples along with the name of the school and the name of the teacher. It was on them that Reps Maaleht, a member of the opposition, was able to rely on them. These are examples that the teacher has already received a message that his or her workload, 28 contact hours or 30 contact hours, is not enough to count it as a full load because he or she has a full load of 35 hours. It is not right to say that a member of the opposition is trying to threaten or lie, because all this material is available in the Ministry of Education, just like the material we receive through official correspondence. As far as the future is concerned, a draft has been initiated by the Centre Party Group on support for support structures. In this regard, the Government of the Republic, including the Minister of Education and Science Aaviksol, has given a negative answer. It is claimed that the Government of the Republic does not support any change in the financing of support structures working in local governments because it does not consider it necessary. However, it is now being said to initiate, discuss and think, and these proposals have been made, they are under the proceedings of the Committee on Culture, but the Government of the Republic has given a negative position on them. Finally, I would like to mention your claim that no amendments have been tabled to make funding earmarked or non-targeted. Our arguments on this matter have been based either on reports from the Association of Municipalities or local authorities, or on the draft decree of the Government of the Republic already being agreed. If the Government of the Republic amends its regulation and our claims no longer apply, we will of course be happy to note that the regulation has changed in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U51	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U52	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I came to this chair so that the confusion and concern about the restructuring of Estonian schools would not seem to remain a problem between the Minister of Education and Mailis Reps, a member of the Riigikogu. We certainly support Mailis Reps, who has just been elected Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu. I noticed in the course of my questioning that we have reached a situation where one minister is not responsible for the words of another minister. Worse still, I noticed that, at different times, when the government has had the same ministerial seat as the same party, there is no continuity and the commitments made by the predecessor are considered nothing. I remember the debate in 2010 when Tõnis Lukas, the Minister of Education at the time, came to this hall with the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school. A number of changes were made to the law. One of the most important details at the time was the obligation to hire psychologists, logos, specialized teachers and social pedagogues when children go to school and need their help. At the time, it was also asked that if an obligation were imposed on the municipality, where the resources would come from to comply with it. Indeed, the law did not state that it was a public obligation, it did not state that it was the responsibility of the schoolmaster, but if the municipality were to be obliged, money would have to come from somewhere. The income received by the municipalities was not increased, but here in the hall of the Riigikogu there was a verbal promise made by your party partner Siim Valmar Kiisler as a contract with local governments. It was agreed that support staff could be paid by the school manager from the teachers' general salary fund. Yes, if the Minister of Education's promise was verbal, the agreement signed by the Minister of Regional Affairs cannot in any way be a friend's agreement. That wouldn't be good practice. It is also the duty of the Minister of Regional Affairs to stand up for local governments in the Government of the Republic. Now we are in a situation where, just three years ago, this obligation was put into law, and funding remained, not a good example of practice, a matter of agreement between the government and local authorities. Indeed, it is very strange to hear that this commitment may be withdrawn, but then the funding of local governments must be reduced. Once the funding of municipalities was reduced, it was 2009 when a pretty significant percentage of personal income tax was taken away and it was said that, by this amount, municipalities would have less responsibility for kindergartens and youth sport. Of course, every city and every municipality is still responsible for kindergartens and youth sports; they cannot tell people that this is no longer their responsibility. But this approach ends with the municipality having to find additional resources at the expense of those in need, somewhere else and mostly, when it is no longer possible to keep logos, special pedagogies and psychology on the school payroll in other ways. So this bad practice may have been incorporated into the law as early as 2010 when we believed Tõnis Lukas' delightful talk, although it was not written that support educators are school teachers with the same rights. But now that it's in the law, it's not right to give it up to save money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U53	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. The debate on the question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U54	After my hammer hit, please sign up for an appearance in a free microphone! I don't think I've been able to hit you with a hammer yet. You're very fast. Stay calm, I give everyone my word. All right, I forgive you! Please, colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U55	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! I'm sorry for the rush! I have the honour to read a letter from 540 people in Estonia from this speech chair of the Riigikogu today. Mardisands visited the Riigikogu today. They came from the Old Town Educational College, St Michael's School, John's School, Kohila Manor School and Tallinn Toom School. The Mardisandid asked me to introduce you to the 'Mardi Wishes, or 540 letters to the Riigikogu'. The appeal is aimed at ensuring that states have the faith and the will to keep the family alive and the children growing and to consolidate and develop a country founded on freedom, justice and rights, so that no child belongs to the poorest fifth of Europe. It all protects inner and outer peace. The authors of the conversion wish that the current children would like to raise their children here and nowhere else, which would be placed on current and future generations, so that there would be plenty of Estonian promoters even when the current members of the Riigikogu retire. The conversion says: "Children are Estonia's largest natural resource, national wealth, which must be preserved. If children grow, then the economy grows, then there is grain happiness and cattle happiness, then the preservation of Estonian nation, language and culture will be ensured through the ages. ' Such an appeal was requested by the fine Martians to hand it over to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U56	It is a pleasure to receive such letters. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U57	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps you have heard that in 1486 the book Malleus Maleficarum, or Witch Hammer, was published in Germany. Its authors were two men: Henricus Institor and Jacobus Sprenger. It's one of the most interesting books ever, I'd say. These two men were both monks, Dominicans and Inquisitors. In a short time before the publication of this book, the Institute burned 41 people to death in a single German province. They wrote this book, which consists of three parts. One part explains who the witches are, the other tells of what they can accomplish, but the third part sets the rules for inquisitionary judgment. According to these rules, an inquisitional trial after that took place in two and a half centuries. For example, no one could complain about the judgment. It would have been weird, too, since most of the defendants died within a few hours of the court's verdict. The court had the opportunity not to listen openly to the Witnesses and not to speak to the accused about these witnesses and their testimony. There was such a possibility that the matter was discussed and decided on the basis of some kind of secret file or material, and neither the accused nor his lawyer, if he had it, knew anything about it. Colleagues, perhaps you have a question as to why I am even telling you about this here. But it has a very specific connection to Estonia today. A year and a half ago, I filed a lawsuit because I think that the kapo yearbook that accused me of fucking knowing what wasn't objective, let's just be honest, there was just a lie for political reasons. Now I'm waiting for a trial, but the trial won't be for another six months. So it's going to take two years. But let me read you a court order. It informs me that there is no appeal against the order. I am informed that my request to summon and interrogate witnesses is dismissed. I have no right to do so, just as the accused did not have such a right in the Middle Ages. I'm gonna say, as a mid-term remark, the ward filed some sort of secret file with the court, a file covered by a secret. The court will decide on the fate of my complaint, based, among other things, on materials that neither I nor my lawyer can see. The court states that it will disregard my request to assess whether the wish to keep a secret is more compelling than the right of the complainant or its representative to have access to the file. I don't know what you're feeling right now, but when I read this document, all the hairs were standing up, frankly, because there's a complete parallel to the inquisitional trial that took place in the worst, most terrible times of the Middle Ages when there was a witch hunt and tens of thousands of women and men were burned. By the way, more or less the same is happening in today's Estonia, for which I wish you luck! That's what I said to end up positive. You like it when you end up positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U58	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U59	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I would very much like to see some people sitting on the right-hand side of the hall sometimes during the free microphone. Unfortunately, we must speak again to empty chairs, which means that only half of the Riigikogu is working. There are those in the Riigikogu who also work during the free microphone, and there are those who lurking around somewhere else during the free microphone. I want to talk about important matters. The Setomaa Support Group held a meeting last week for a long time and this was very constructive. Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, and several representatives of Setomaa organisations were invited to the meeting. Two topics were discussed at the meeting: the border agreement and the waiting period. At the beginning of the meeting, the Minister of the Interior confirmed that everything that is taking place in connection with the taking of a waiting period at the border is in accordance with the law. Border crossings are complex permits, which means that if you add up the border crossing booking fee and the waiting period fee, the amount of this fee is about 100 kroons in old currency, which is far from small. If you read the Chancellor of Justice's position again, which he gave on 19 April 2012, it turns out that there has been illegal cassing of the standstill fee for more than a year. I will read out the Chancellor of Justice's proposal once again: 'After analysing the information gathered during the procedure, I take the view that, in order to organise the entry of vehicles at border crossing points in Luhamaa and Koidula, § 83 (4) of the State Border Act is violated, according to which no charge is charged for the use of a waiting area for border crossings when the vehicle is located in a waiting area for border crossings, but does not actually use the waiting area service for border crossings and is directed immediately to the border crossing point. ' If you look at all the laws, I think that since 1 December there will be even fewer border crossings and, in any case, the Minister of the Interior will have to review the administrative agreement concluded between the maintenance manager of the standstill fee and the Ministry of the Interior, because the border crossings will not be able to pay all the costs to the administrators either way. At the meeting of the Setomaa Support Group, however, the Minister of the Interior broke down during the meeting and began to have a completely different conversation. When a small section of the article published in the media last week had been read to the Minister of the Interior, which said that the Tartu Administrative Court upheld the appeal against the Police and Border Guard Board in its decision and declared it unlawful to refer the border crossing to the unjustified waiting area before border control operations were carried out, the Minister of the Interior said that the whole problem was in the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu adopts laws and is responsible for ensuring that for a year and a half the law has been amended and for a year and a half the waiting allowance has been unlawfully paid. I call on everyone here to address this problem. I would very much have liked to have sat in this Chamber as many members of the Reform Party or the IRL so that I could pass on a request to act together to change the law of the state border. This is the right time for this because the state budget is in the Riigikogu proceedings, we can review the administrative contract and make an amendment so that the law on the state border is no longer violated and people are not unduly categorized as waiting allowances. I myself am very willing to participate in the preparation of this legislative amendment. I saw Priit Sibula, president of the Setomaa Support Group, in the hallway today by chance, and I suggested that we roll up our sleeves and get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U60	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U61	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The 540 letters presented here by my colleague, Jüri Ratas, gave me reason to come to the Riigikogu's Speaker's Office today after the discussion of questions to participate in a free microphone. This letter gave thoughts and evidently brought a smile on the face of all colleagues. If you'd seen those mardisans who came to the vestibule of the Riigikogu! It was worth a lot of smiles. But the contents of the letter are very deep. The letter said that even when current members of the Riigikogu retire, there should be those who raise children in this country and want to contribute. Child benefit has been EUR 19 for 10 years. This Wednesday, the Social Democrats are celebrating this event 'Annual of Child Support: 10 years of shame! '. All colleagues are welcome to speak on this issue. Media is also welcome there. After this event, it's probably not so nice to read the letter, so I don't think it'll bring a smile to my face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-11_U62	Thank you. No one wants to talk anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, I have some good news for you: the hearing is over. Closure of the sitting at 4.36 p.m.
