ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government! Let's start the 9/11 briefing. First, we'll do a presence check. 49 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 52 are missing. Let's start the briefing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U2	The first question is asked by Sven Mikser Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The subject is needs-based learning support. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U3	Honourable Head of Government! I'm asking you for the absence of the Minister of Education. The law on the amendment of the Education Allowances and Student Loan Act, initiated by the Government last year and which has just entered into force, provides that a student studying at a vocational or higher education institution up to 24 years of age receives needs-based education allowance if the income per family member does not exceed 280 euros. According to the law, his or her underage siblings and his or her siblings up to the age of 24 who study in a vocational or higher education institution are also considered members of the student's family. The press of the last few days has also been left out to draw attention to this by siblings who have reached the age of 19 and are studying in upper secondary school classes. In Estonia, schools are mostly taken at the age of 7 and the end of the upper secondary school takes 12 years of study, so this lawyer seems unreasonable and unfair. Is such a solution the political will of the government or the failure of the initiator of the draft, which the Riigikogu has also failed to correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U4	I agree with you. When a person has reached 18 years of age and is still studying in upper secondary school, he or she should, in principle, be counted as a member of his or her family and, accordingly, provide income per family member. The law has been passed by the legislator. If the law is not the best, it must be improved. That is the role of the legislator. As head of government, I don't have to teach you how to act on this. But I believe the government will take such an initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U5	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U6	Prime Minister! Yesterday, Delfi's story appeared on the portal about a student who misses out on need-based education allowance because he worked next to school last year, so income per household member exceeded the threshold of 2.5 euros required to receive the allowance. Does that seem reasonable and fair? Following the introduction of so-called free higher education, this student cannot continue to work alongside the university as it does not allow him to complete the study programme at the required nominal time. Why did the government coalition opt for such a solution? After all, this penalises a financially difficult student for finding a way to work alongside the high school seniors. This cannot be a problem because the Minister of Education repeatedly said during the draft procedure that there is a clear political decision to base the requests on data from the previous year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U7	After all, somewhere you have to draw a line below which people with incomes are paid need-based education support and above which people with incomes are not paid. Given the size of the national purse, it does not matter whether this limit is EUR 280 per family member per month or EUR 282 and 50 cents. It is always a choice place to draw the border, but the border must be and must be respected, not so that the border is scattered and foggy. If you find convincing reasons why there has been no real revenue, then the taxpayer will certainly pay more. We have the fact that the legislator has decided to make available to the Ministry of Education and Research, in addition to the usual amount of EUR 3.3 million, to pay needs-based study grants. The amount of sum is the average student won quite a lot. 3.3 million euros in addition to the former 8.8 million euros is still a pretty big addition, and I think the average student should be happy and happy right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U8	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U9	I guess I couldn't bring you the core of my question. It is not a question of how much or how little the limit was exceeded. There must be a line, I agree with you on that. The point is, why is there such a long delay? A student who went to work a year before from upper secondary school to ease the economic situation of his family a little bit can no longer do so under the so-called 'free' conditions of higher education, as he needs to progress with a nominal time to study free of charge. At the same time, it does not receive needs-based learning support because the calculation is based on household income per member last year. Why did the government choose this approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U10	If the state collected data on its citizens, including students, on a much more intensive and larger scale, it would also be possible to apply a shorter reference period. But the collection of more data is in conflict with the protection of a person's private sphere. Currently, data declared by people themselves or declared by employers are being processed. Unfortunately, we have this data in reliable use only for the previous year, and I am thinking of the time when the application was submitted. I do not exclude that it is possible to base the development of information technology on a slightly later period. However, the current months are probably never taken into account, so the aid should start to be paid afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U11	Thank you. Let's go to the issues registered on the spot. For each question, two on-the-spot questions can be submitted. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U12	Prime Minister! The government has decided that the need-based family allowance is based on the calculation of income from previous months in the current year, on the allocation of needs-based education allowance from the previous year. In Viljandi county, the mother of a family rich in children has approached me with concern that KredEx's support for the family created a situation where the family's daughter, applying for needs-based education allowance, received this allowance at the lowest rate. At the same time, the mother only worked three months in real life last year. By any logic, the daughter should have received this support at the highest rate. At the moment, it is possible that the person was unemployed last year, and now he or she receives a very high, above average salary, but his or her child has been awarded a needs-based education allowance. Do you think this regulation is right?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U13	Administration of all taxes and subsidies is undoubtedly costly. I am not prepared to claim that the current administration procedure is ideal for any taxes or any subsidies. Absolutely not! Revenues can always be taken into account more operationally, and real needs can also be taken into account more operationally. However, it is usually considerably more costly to take account of revenue or needs than to calculate subsidies based on a slightly earlier period. The need-based family allowances will be paid on the basis of the actual income of the previous quarter and not on the basis of the actual expenditure of the previous month, as you said. In principle, different systems can also be created. I call on all those who are not satisfied with the current regulations to propose new and better ideas. Surely the government is open to new ideas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U14	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U15	Prime Minister! In your reply to Sven Mikser, you may have collected yourself a little at the beginning, but when you answered Helmen Hunt, you said, in fact, what is the reason why the needs-based education allowance takes into account the income tax return data of the previous year. There is, of course, a cost. Helmen Kütt knows very precisely how needs-based family benefits are taken into account, and he said 'last months', not 'last month'. However, the same question as to whether to count on needs-based learning support on the basis of last year's or shorter period's income was being discussed very thoroughly in this Parliament. Even then, it was clear that situations would arise where people would fall between the gears of this system. At the time, as a representative of the government, the Minister of Education promised that universities would create special funds using performance contracts for people who, under this law, would not receive this education grant, but could receive support from these funds until the new year arrived. Has it been done?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U16	This was a very long question, with a number of aspects that need to be commented on. First of all, it is not just about the efficient use of taxpayers' money, or how expensive or cheap it is to administer one support to a government or state. It is also a matter of how large a resource the application for one grant requires of the applicant. Reliable proof of the real costs of the running month is probably beyond the reach of many people. It's not as simple as it may seem at first glance. If you know what income was earned in a particular month, there may not be any amounts that could be received after a certain period of time, which were not expected to be received, etc. Indeed, reliable data are easily available for the previous year. As I have already said, there are 3.3 million additional funds available for needs-based learning grants compared to the current system. If there is an additional 3.3 million to 8.8 million, this means that the amount of grants is considerably higher than it was before the need-based study grants were introduced. In addition to needs-based study grants, universities and other higher education institutions pay grants to students on the basis of both educational success and social indications.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U17	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U18	Let's go to the next question. The questioner is Lauri Laas, who has a question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications about the price of electricity. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U19	Honourable Minister of Economic Affairs! I understand that the price of electricity is even greater on you than on Lihula's column back then. But it's not because I'm asking you to spoil your mood, it's because people are waiting for answers and want to know what happens next. Here's the question. If the summer weather is usually accompanied by a slightly more affordable electricity bill for Estonians, this summer was different. This year the average price of electricity in the Estonian price area in June was 73% more expensive than last year. During the summer, you admitted that such price jumps are insane and that serious conclusions must be drawn from this, that the situation needs to be analysed. What conclusions have then been drawn and how far has the permitted analysis been achieved?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U20	I understand that you referred to the price of the Estonian power exchange on 25 June. This incident of 25 June caused us great dissatisfaction. We have analyzed its causes and put them in more or less a logical line for ourselves. It must certainly be dealt with to ensure that Estonia and our southern neighbours, Latvia and Lithuania, operate according to the same principles. That is not the case at the moment. This may lead to a situation where the Latvian and Lithuanian price area affects the Estonian price area and these prices converge. There can be no opposition to price convergence in itself when we look north, we also see this, but price convergence can be accepted if the market conditions are the same. That is not the case at the moment. We expect faster progress from our southern neighbours in this regard. In the meantime, market operators, system operator, Competition Board and, in my opinion, Nord Pool, the manager of the power exchange, must take steps to ensure that Estonian consumers are better protected in all circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U21	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U22	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. I am not quite sure that it is all the fault of our neighbours, Latvians and Lithuanians. I think there's something we can do ourselves. For example, one of the reasons for the high price of electricity has been maintenance, which led to a reduction in the supply of electricity. Both the Estlink 1 cable and the Narva power plant block were in maintenance at the same time. How will it be in the future to ensure that many production capacities and interconnections are not in service at the same time? Who's supposed to be good for that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U23	That, too, is a good point. Of course, all of this should be coordinated, and not just within one country. Market operators should coordinate all factors which have a significant impact on the market and which relate in one way or another to market participants' decisions. In the case of Estonia, the core network company Elering should coordinate this work with its colleagues from both the south and the north. In my opinion, this issue could also be seriously discussed by the power exchange operator. Nord Pool should play a much more important role in order to better organise the market and to coordinate the work of technical capacities affecting electricity prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U24	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U25	Mr. Minister! When the Central Party Group proposed last year a reduction in electricity excise duty to control the price of electricity, it made a lot of fun of you, and you mocked this proposal in this Chamber. For your part, you proposed that the renewable energy fee should be reduced instead. I will then ask you, as I have asked you before, how far you are with your plan and when the renewable energy fee will really fall.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U26	To give a brief answer, I would like to say: 'A respectable hall and a good questioner, too, why have you not adopted such a law?' Such a draft is pending. The opposition can also take the initiative. There is no point in blaming the people of the already overloaded government coalition all the time without justification. The second reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act was interrupted. In my opinion, the preliminary consultations with the European Commission have gone positively, and I think that the Riigikogu could adopt this law as soon as possible as the text of the second reading of the draft was. In that case, we will link the renewable energy charge to the market price. If the market price is higher, renewable energy prices will be lower and all of us, as consumers, will be able to feel it. So, power to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U27	Thank you. Let's go to the issues registered on the spot. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U28	Mr. Minister! Especially bold answers usually come to the third question when you know that you can no longer ask for more. Then it is good to say that you will accept the bill. You know that the opposition's drafts will not be adopted. However, I would like to ask about the recent publication by Statistics Estonia of information on another change in the consumer price index. Of course, housing costs were the main ones that have raised this index, almost half of the increase was attributed to them. This in turn accounted for 80% of electricity. Electricity has increased so much, nearly 29%. We know that there is a great deal to be decided by the state in this area: the fees for network services, electricity excise duties, VAT and, of course, dividends, which are hundreds of millions of euros. Why, however, did you take such a bold step this year that you increased the price of electricity with all the taxes on the state? In fact, the people expected you to deliver on your "Home expenses down" promise.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U29	I also mediate my summer emotions. I went to Mustamäe Sõpruse Avenue 202 to open a fully renovated apartment building. What did you find out? A very large house has been renovated, thermal cost savings of 65%. The building designed by architect Karbi in 1970 has been very overhauled. I think that's the answer to your question. The transition to a free electricity market should no longer be a surprise. If we are seriously talking about the prospects of the electricity market, it is also worth monitoring transactions with future prices in our region, both in Estonia and in the Nordic countries. We see that our prospects are quite good and stable, which should mean that the pressure on inflation in one of the energy components should decrease. In addition to the additional infrastructure investments that will bring new suppliers to the market, I am thinking here of the Estonian-Finnish cable, Lithuanian-Swedish cable and Lithuanian-Polish cable, I believe that during the current transitional period, a fairly good outlook will be created for one of the energy components, both for our families and for the Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U30	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U31	Good minister! It has to be said that, unfortunately, we have not quite started our electricity market. When we went to the market, we promised the people that we could buy electricity at Nordic prices. Unfortunately, this summer we didn't get it. Perhaps, given the behaviour of the Lithuanians and Latvians and their production capacities, we should set a price in Estonia that is not higher than the price of Nord Pool Spot in Finland?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U32	In itself, it is an interesting idea that can be considered if we do not get certain aspects of the electricity market in the region. That's probably what the questioner meant. However, the main argument is not quite correct. If I look at the prices of the electricity market in Estonia and Finland, it is one price level per cent. There have been some single fluctuations, as was the price increase of 25 June, when our price area joined Latvia and Lithuania. In the current situation, I consider it anomalous, given the market rules that apply to the southern neighbours. I think we have some prices with the Nordic countries. The other thing is what we saw this summer. Here, certain natural factors come into play. There are also different price areas in the Nordic countries. If you compare the average prices in Finland, not one-day prices, but average prices with those in Norway or Sweden, rather than the prices in Norway or Sweden as a whole, we see that the difference is significant. I think that the Lithuanian-Swedish cable will certainly contribute to the reduction in prices. Broadly speaking, opening up the market as a country is a very hard investment in the future. Of course, there are things that need to be worked on very seriously, there are disturbingly many things that have not been done, but there have also been investments that will hopefully significantly improve the situation in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U33	Thank you very much. With this question, we are done, we are going to the next.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U34	Helmen Küt has a question about pensions for Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U35	Minister of Social Affairs! Since the law requires it, pensions are rising. On several occasions, the government has raised the pension less than could have been estimated. I'm referring to the time when the pensions didn't go up, but they didn't go down either. The question is, is the pension increase announced by you by 2014 of 5.8%, according to the press, 6% or more real increases or deductions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U36	One thing is certain is that the government and the Social Insurance Board pay out pensions of exactly the size prescribed by the law and exactly the size that the state can afford. The pension increase next year will be 5.8%. That's the extra money that actually gets people. This means an additional average of around EUR 20 per month for each pensioner or, if you wish, EUR 240 per year. You are right that the payment of pensions depends very much more on the law and the formula prescribed by law than on the kindness or harshness of the government. However, there are things that the government can do to make pensions grow faster. The increase in pensions is directly related to how well the Estonian economy is doing. The current government is doing everything it can to make the economy do well, and even though a large part of Europe is in a very difficult situation, the Estonian economy has done quite well, better than many countries. I am very sad that others are doing badly, but I am proud that Estonia is doing well. It also provides an opportunity for us, unlike many countries where there is talk of no increase in pensions or even a reduction in pensions, even our northern neighbours are planning to raise the retirement age, we can talk about the increase in pensions, and this is very likely to happen more quickly than in any other country of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U37	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U38	Dear Minister, Are there plans to increase the tax-free minimum? In fact, if there was a pension increase this year, there were very many elderly people, either because of a serious life expectancy, such as those who were repressed, or because of a long working life, if the pension is more than EUR 336, the pension increase did not actually arrive. The income tax wiped it out. If the income tax-free minimum is not increased, the 2014 pension increase, which is estimated at 20 euros per month on paper, will not actually reach many.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U39	Raising the tax-free minimum is a matter of budget negotiations and final decisions have not yet been taken. But there are a few things that have become rock-proof in the budget negotiations over time. One is that there must be money to raise pensions, the other is that wage increases are also a very important priority for the government. These are things you can say for sure right now. As regards old-age pension, the current average old-age pension is EUR 334 which is slightly lower than the tax-free minimum rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U40	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U41	Here's the last question. The Association of Estonian Pensioners Associations, as the largest organisation representing older people in Estonia, has carried out a survey since 2008, in which older people have been interviewed and studied their livelihood. The data has been provided to the Minister of Social Affairs, and this information has been shared in meetings and other discussions with the Minister of Social Affairs. According to the representative of the Union, Mr Kitsing, the study has shown that real pensions have decreased by 18%, because the increase in the cost of living has been faster than the increase in pensions. When you look at the expenses of an elderly person, one third of the pension is spent on food, one third on housing. Food prices have increased by 31.9% in the intervening period and housing costs have increased by 44.8%, not to mention the amount to be spent on buying medicines. Are you familiar with these data and do you also consider the negotiations with pensioner associations?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U42	There is no news to anyone that there was an economic crisis in Estonia in 2009 and 2010, but despite a very strong demand from the public, because wages fell, the government decided not to lower pensions. It was a very difficult decision, but I think it was the right one. And as soon as possible, when it turned out to be affordable for the country, we began to raise pensions. Looking ahead, I can say that, according to all forecasts, pension increases both this year and next year will considerably exceed the cost of living. It is a little early for us to talk about raising pensions in 2015, but we have already made forecasts by then. So much I can say that it is very likely that pension increases will be even faster in 2015 than next year, which is much faster than the increase in the cost of living. Yes, the economic crisis affected everyone, but it can be said that we were very consciously trying to save older people from the effects of the crisis. When wages fell around, we kept our pensions at the same level as ten nails. From now on, we will raise pensions as much as possible to the Estonian state in the next year by 5.8%, and this is the fastest pension increase in the last six years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U43	Thank you. Let's go to the issues registered on the spot. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U44	It is terrible to hear that it could have happened that we are still lowering our pensions, which are already among the smallest in Europe. I, too, stress that you have still raised your pension considerably less each year than the pension formula provides for. In the meantime, the amount of the pension was frozen for one year at all. Next year we could raise the pension by 7% according to this formula, but we will raise 5.8%. This year, 5% was raised, should have increased by 6.36%. As far as real pension is concerned, given the huge price race that has been in Estonia, the highest price increase in Europe, the real pension is very much behind. Can't we raise our pension by 7%? It's awkward that our pension is five times smaller than in Greece.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U45	Good Marika Tuus! You are very talented to ask in such a way that, in the course of your questioning, you make at least ten factual errors and then a question follows that is entirely from another area. But I'll try to sort out these factual errors for a limited period of time. It is absolutely wrong that Estonian pensions are among the smallest in Europe. I don't know where you get that data. Compare your pensions to yours in Latvia and Lithuania, compare them with those of the European countries with whom we are destiny mates, history mates! In many places, including our neighbouring countries, pensions are lower and pension increases are lower. For example, Lithuania does not intend to raise or raise pensions next year. Latvia's pension increase has been more than twice as slow as Estonia's, although they also have quite solid economic growth. You mentioned Greece here; it only talks about reducing pensions, not about raising them. It's completely misleading what you're saying that we could have raised pensions, but we actually froze them. On the contrary, following the very strict letter of the law, pensions should not have been increased in 2009. However, it was decided to find money for pensions in 2009, when it was very difficult for Estonian society as a whole to raise 5%. The claim that the Estonian pension index is actually 7% and that only 5.8% of the pension increase is paid is misleading to the public, that is not true. Check your data, try to calculate! 5.8% is just as big a pension increase as the law allows us to do. This is the maximum possible increase in pensions for the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U46	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U47	Dear Minister, I come back to this aspect, which concerns the general economic context in which we are located. After all, we are part of the economy of the euro area and of the European Union as a whole. In my opinion, it is reasonable to say that Estonia's planned pension increase of 5.8% next year is exceptional. It is true that Latvia is also planning a pension increase. I do not know if it is bigger than in Estonia, but I know that Latvia has not raised pensions in several previous years, but we have done so. You communicate with other social affairs ministers, you have the most comprehensive information. Can we say that Estonia's planned pension increase is rather exceptional in the context of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U48	Yes, not only is Estonia's pension increase exceptional in Europe, but Estonia's livelihood as a whole is exceptional in Europe. Estonia is one of the very few countries where unemployment is declining very rapidly. The sooner unemployment decreases, the more people work and pay social tax, the more we can raise pensions. Let us look at those countries that have economic growth at all. Unfortunately, in many European Union countries there is either zero growth or going backwards, and in these we are talking either about reducing or freezing pensions. But if we look at the individual countries with economic growth, in addition to Estonia, our neighbours Latvia and Lithuania are certainly among them. Indeed, Latvia plans to raise pensions next year, but according to the current plan, it will remain within 2.5%, or more than twice the increase in Estonian pensions. Lithuania, whose economy is not much worse than Estonia, is very sustainable. As far as we know, Lithuanian pensions are not going to be increased. In Estonia, however, according to the information I know, pension growth is very likely to be the fastest in the European Union next year. Is that our separate goal? No, it's not. Our goal is for the Estonian economy to succeed. If the Estonian economy is doing well, we have real money to increase people's well-being.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U49	Thank you very much. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U50	Let's go to the next question. The next questioner is Tarmo Tamm, the question is to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, the subject is administrative reform. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U51	Prime Minister! As usual, before the local elections, the issue of administrative reform will be on the agenda. Your coalition partner, IRL, has come up with another plan that proposes the formation and compulsory integration of municipalities based on attraction centres. Has the Government of the Republic discussed and approved this plan? What do you think, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U52	The Government of the Republic has not discussed and approved this, and there are no assumptions. As liberals, the Reform Party considers voluntary accession to be the right thing. We are certainly not prepared to support the forced unification of local authorities. At a time when a great deal is being said about the deterioration of democracy, I do not think it is appropriate to propose that the right to self-determination of local authorities should be abolished and that someone who is superior, who is smarter and can see beyond, should take decisions for local authorities on their accession or non-accession. No, we have not changed our position on this. Voluntary mergers can be the only basis for accession.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U53	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U54	Prime Minister! Now I have this strange question. So, what's IRL doing this now? Besides the Reform Party, he does not have any supporters among the Centre Party and Social Democrats, does he? Then why is your government partner doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U55	I have not understood the programme of reform based on centres of attraction in such a way that the only basis for accession is forced integration. Local authorities are currently negotiating. We have municipalities that have already volunteered. 215 local authorities should remain in the current knowledge. I believe that this process will continue in the future. The government has also provided membership bonuses for local governments in the case of voluntary mergers. We support voluntary accession, but as liberals, reform parties will never forget what is the most important role for local authorities in the democratic regime. The local government must balance the central authority on the basis of a strong local identity. That is why the local government and its autonomy are seriously respected in a large number of democratic countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U56	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U57	Prime Minister! As you will hear, next year, there will be an increase in the wages of public employees, which in itself will be nice and certainly will also find our support. But where do local authorities find money to raise the pay of kindergarten educators, for example? Many kindergarten educators pay at the 2007 level. What revenue base do you expect to increase next year for local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U58	Just before I came here to see you, I watched online news. I saw news that for those who have had an increase in wages over the past year, it has risen by 14% in one survey, on average by 9%. We also know that according to Statistics Estonia, wage increases in the second quarter of this year were 8.5%. According to the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance, wages will increase by 6% next year, and I believe that these forecasts are relatively conservative. The current very good tax revenue confirms that wages have risen and employment has increased. If employment has increased significantly and wages have increased, the local government's income will also increase. The share of income tax falling on them is increasing considerably. This is the source of which local authorities can raise their employees' salaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U59	Thank you. Let's go to the issues registered on the spot. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U60	Prime Minister! The administrative reform of the Minister for Regional Affairs focuses in particular on the centres of attraction-based municipalities, attention or at all is excluded from the scope of the county level. Do you think that during the ongoing process, the counties may disappear from the map of Estonia? And if they disappear, what is the second level of cooperation that municipalities should orient themselves to? Or if they stay, how do their functions become clearer?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U61	I must admit, your question is difficult to understand. The counties were, are and remain on the map of Estonia. But if you have a county government or a county governor and their operation in the current functions is the same as the existence of counties in Estonia, then this can obviously be considered as the beginning of a grandeur. Even if there were no rural governments at all, Estonia's counties would certainly remain. At the same time, I see no reason why we should start losing rural governments on a daily basis. Over time, the functions of rural governments have decreased considerably. The administration of state schools and social welfare institutions has been withdrawn from rural governments, the administration of museums has been withdrawn from rural parents, but they have some tasks that the state must carry out anyway, regardless of how it appoints those who carry out these specific tasks. The tasks related to county planning, supervision of detailed plans, supervision of individual acts of local government are the responsibility of the state anyway. In my opinion, local government associations could be much more responsible for the comprehensive development of the county in the future. They could take a much more weighty collective role than they currently have.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U62	Please ask another issue registered on site, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U63	Good Prime Minister! Indeed, during the summer, the counties proposed how administrative reform could be foreseen in their area. These were the proposals of rural elders and local governments. I was surprised by the islanders' suggestion that Saaremaa could be one municipality. I really liked it. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U64	It's up to the local community. If the local community considers that, in the case of one municipality, solving local issues is more effective, it is their decision, and the central government must certainly respect it. The optimal size of local self-government is determined by the community, which is the most powerful in carrying the local identity. If it is found in Hiiumaa or Saaremaa that the local identity is most strongly embedded in the identity of a giant or an islander and that it is best to organise local life through one local government, then the central government has nothing to comment on here. This is a local government decision, and the central government must respect it. In general terms, Europe's experience can be said to have different traditions in countries. In many countries local authorities are considerably smaller than our territory and the number of inhabitants, but local people do not think at all that they could give up local democracy. I have spoken here before you, for example, in San Marino, where there were 27,000 inhabitants at some point. There are nine local authorities and no one is talking about an administrative-territorial reform that could eliminate these small local authorities in the Republic of San Marino. There are now more residents, but there are still just as many local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U65	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U66	Let's go to the next question. The questioner is Rainer Vakra, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts about the burning of waste and the waste management of Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U67	Mr Parts, thank you very much. Eesti Energia Iru waste generation plant imports a tenth of the waste needed to keep the plant running, from Finland and Great Britain. This means that ships are carrying at least 20,000 tons of garbage a year in Maarja County and are being driven into an oven here. It would take, for example, about four years for the heaths to produce this amount of sustenance. When we burn unsorted garbage, nearly 250 kg of ash and 25 kg of hazardous waste per tonne of fuel will be generated. Thus, one in four large cargo vessels landed in Muuga port is actually landfilled as ash in the Jõelähtme landfill. In whose interests, however, were 105 million euros invested, and why was a waste incineration plant so powerful that there is not enough local waste and that it must be brought to Estonia from abroad?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U68	Finally, I will be able to turn the lies of Mr Vakra in front of the Estonian people! First of all, the waste plant was built for the benefit of all Estonian residents. We can now say that we can put an end to the stupidity of burying garbage in the ground, and thanks to Iru Station, the prices of garbage have dropped by 50%. Compared to the average landfill that takes the garbage and the garbage station, the cost of receiving the garbage is 50%. We have calculated the consumer's victory within Tallinn and Maardu, which is about 4 million euros. Secondly, the combined production of garbage and electricity is as important as the competition of Tallinn's heat producers. We have calculated that consumers will pay around EUR 3.5 million less for the amount of heat produced by the waste plant. The winners are all those who respect Estonian nature. It is wrong to claim that this Eesti Energia station exceeds Estonia's waste capacity. As of now, these figures are a plus or minus 10000 tonnes of garbage that could be burned in Estonia, around 300000 tonnes. The power of Eesti Energia station is 200000 tonnes. Eesti Energia has also concluded contracts for 200000 tonnes. In order for Eesti Energia to produce heat and electricity continuously without interruption, they must have options in case local suppliers are unable to perform contracts for any reason. I believe this dump will have a positive effect in other ways. The situation in Estonia is different. In some places, the contracts concluded by the municipalities are not yet carried out, and perhaps because of the interests of some companies, you are likely to represent one of them, too, all the garbage at the Iru station. I think it's gonna end soon. The price difference is so big, it's 50%.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U69	Let's try to stay inside two minutes with our answer! Please, Rainer Vakra, the first point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U70	Dear Minister, In fact, such waste tourism is an unreasonable solution in terms of environmental protection. Firstly, in the so-called waste hierarchy, the incineration of waste is only one step above landfilling, but also in terms of economic and energy saving, recycling and sorting is 3 to 5 times more beneficial than driving this dull furnace. I would point out that, in the case of any combustion, the by-product is greenhouse gases emitted into the air through the chimney. Just because they meet standards does not mean that the natural environment is happy for them. The inhabitants of the area have repeatedly pointed this out. I have a question for you, too. Shouldn't the state of Estonia pay more attention to environmental conservation, sorting, recovery and changing its waste oven policy in waste management?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U71	I'm sure you should do all this all the time. But your argument is that the best thing is to bury garbage in landfills and the consumer pays 50% more for it than at current prices. That's complete stupidity. I am surprised that in 20 years we have been unable to get rid of the thinking that the Nordic countries, whom we set as examples, have long been freed from. They don't bury garbage, they really do recycle it. Of course, the ideal is to try to recycle waste with the highest possible added value. It should be done. But the most common burning of municipal waste, producing heat and electricity from it, is also recovery.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U72	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U73	Dear Minister, On the contrary, I repeat that this is not about burying the garbage, but about burning the garbage is only one step higher. In fact, the Estonian state should deal with how to sort waste, how to recycle it. I still have no idea why the Estonian state supports the burning of foreign waste financially. I know that the rhetoric of Eesti Energia has always been that it is not about supporting the incineration of waste but about supporting cogeneration. If we go from here to the same logic, we could ultimately say that if oil shale electricity were to be produced in an efficient cogeneration mode, subsidies could also be paid there. In fact, if this support were to be stopped, every electricity consumer would be able to save nearly EUR 10 a year, i.e. reduce home costs. After all, all electricity consumers in Estonia pay for this support. Why must the state of Estonia and the taxpayer, in whatever form or form, support this incineration of Finnish and British waste without paying attention to environmentally friendly activities, i.e. sorting and recovery?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U74	That's a lie you're saying. Absolutely wrong, Mr. Vakra! Don't, for God's sake, talk this shit out of your voters! Some of the voters will believe you. We pay not a cent to burn Finnish trash, but a Finnish trash producer, if this trash is brought to Estonia for some reason, by the way, Ragn-Sells has also brought it to Estonia on a small scale and some companies still pay us, or Eesti Energia, if you want it. And the same way he pays Kunda Nordic Cement, who needs some amount of garbage, or Ragn-Sells. That's the way it works. Cogeneration support is not dependent at all on what is fuel. The idea of cogeneration, which we have defined by law, is that we make maximum use of primary energy. This is finally the victory of all consumers. Without cogeneration support, no power plant would be created that would produce combined heat and electricity, no matter what fuel. If you look at the cost of power plants and thermal power plants, when you simply produce heat, the investment cost is three times lower when most fuels are used than when you produce heat and electricity together. By producing them together, however, it is much more effective from an environmental point of view and ultimately from a price for people. That's the economic point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U75	Thank you. Please check-in, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U76	Good minister! I've been thinking a lot about this dump and I've been talking to a lot of specialists. I'm not convinced that this dump will be right for us. Most specialists think that it is too big for Estonia that we do not need to burn so much garbage. On the other hand, I support Vakra here, because our consumers pay the renewable energy fee and when the Finnish garbage comes here, they subsidize the burning of Finnish garbage at our station.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U77	Mr. Rockvee! I'd expect you to understand the point, though. In the case of cogeneration support, if Estonia's security or, by the way, Russian gas is used as fuel, so that this primary energy does not go to waste, so that we do not heat the air, but can get electricity from it, we should be motivated to invest. It's not fuel-dependent. As far as the size of this station is concerned, I will read the relevant figures again. I believe that my colleague, the Minister for the Environment, will monitor the waste balance better, but once again: the power of the plant is to burn 200,000 tonnes of garbage a year. The trash that actually arises in Estonia, which would fit to be burned there, and which is quite difficult to reuse for any other purpose, is 300000 tonnes. Still 100,000 tons go to more expensive landfills. Who's gonna pay for the more expensive dump? An Estonian man! We're gonna put a man in the middle of everything and start worrying about a person's life, about his wallet, about how we're gonna survive, just like we're gonna try to! Don't work against it, esteemed officer!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U78	Thank you very much. There are no further issues registered on the spot. I will finish this question and I will also finish today's Question Time. Thank you very much for replying to the members of the government. Let us prepare for the beginning of the sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U79	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the first Wednesday session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U80	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu! Just as the school year has begun, our year of work has begun. It's quite appropriate to come back to where we graduated just before Midsummer, or the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. The major confusion about the state exams before the Midsummer Day of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act has been sought to smooth out. The Minister has told me in all kinds of interviews how 1 and 20 are almost the same thing. However, I hope that the Committee on Culture understands that 1 point and 20 points are not a security solution and that such a provision of law will not contribute to the spring evaluation. Moreover, it is quite confusing which minimum rates will then be set in January if there is no real accreditation system. There's no new professional system either. Our proposal is to continue the accreditation as long as there is no better system. There are still minor clarifications on how we can, however, fulfil our spring summer promises to come back to the funding of support specialists and find solutions that would help local authorities with new budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U81	Thank you very much. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am submitting a draft law amending the law on study grants and student loans to the proceedings by the Social Democratic Party Group. It is remembered that this law was last amended at the end of last year, and this amendment has just entered into force. According to this Act, the members of the student's family are not more than 24-year-old brothers, sisters, half-sisters and half-brothers who meet the conditions for applying for the education allowance referred to in the Act, i.e. who are studying at a higher education institution or vocational training institution, but who are not studying in upper secondary school for up to 24-year-old sisters, brothers, half-sisters and half-brothers. We want to eliminate this gross error in the law with our draft. Since the Prime Minister has also confirmed that this is an instigator and legislator mistake, we believe that when the whole concept was developed, it was actually meant that students in upper secondary school would also be taken into account when determining the need-based education allowance for family members. We do not believe that this change will lead to additional costs. Since the law has only recently been in force, we do not have any actual statistical data on the real costs according to the current legislation. It is therefore impossible to provide information on how many additional applicants will be entitled to need-based education support as a result of the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U83	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a Draft law on sworn translator, initiated on 9 September, commission of the Committee on Legal Affairs, of the Government of the Republic. A draft of the decision of the Riigikogu on 9 September 2014 to approve the national tourism development plan of Estonia, the leading committee of the Economic Commission; in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Law on Apartment Ownership and Apartment Cooperatives, initiated on 9 September, Leading Commission on Legal Affairs; in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Forest Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act, initiated on 9 September, commission of the Environment Committee; the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Civil Status Acts Act, Population Register Act, Local Government Organisation Act and State Fees Act, initiated on 9 September, commission of the Legal Affairs Committee; in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Law on the organisation of health services, initiated on 9 September, Committee on Social Affairs; the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the United Mexican States on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion and related protocol, initiated on 9 September, Committee on Monetary Affairs; in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Water Act, initiated on 9 September, Leading Commission on the Environment; the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated on 9 September, Leading Commission on Legal Affairs; the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the Penal Code initiated on 9 September and related amendments to other laws, commission of law; the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Parental Compensation Act, initiated on 9 September, the Committee on Social Affairs; the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act and the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities, initiated on 9 September, Committee on Social Affairs; in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Liquid Fuel Stock Act, initiated on 9 September, Leading Committee on Economic Affairs; the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law on Plant Protection, initiated on 9 September, commission of the Rural Affairs Committee, of the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Public Procurement Act, initiated on 9 September, Leading Committee on Economic Affairs; in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Insurance Activities Act and the Investment Funds Act, initiated on 9 September, Leading Committee on Economic Affairs; in the Government of the Republic. The draft of the Riigikogu decision "Accepting the State's 2012 Annual Report," presented on 9 September 2012, the leading committee, the Committee on Monetary Affairs. And now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 85 members of the Riigikogu have been registered, 16 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U84	Let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the first reading of the Draft Act 442 on the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Inclusion of Children in Armed Conflicts initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the speech chair to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Estonia ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1991, and since then we have undertaken to implement the protection of children's rights in accordance with the Convention. The Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Inclusion of Children in Armed Conflicts aims to enhance the protection of children against the inclusion of them in armed conflicts. This Optional Protocol was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly Resolution of 25 May 2000 and entered into force on 12 February 2002. The President of the Republic of Estonia signed the Protocol in New York on 24 September 2003. The purpose of the protocol is to ensure, as has already been said, special protection for children under 18 years of age against recruitment and direct participation in military activities. Upon ratification of the Protocol, the State must make a binding declaration indicating the minimum age at which persons can voluntarily enter the national armed forces. Pursuant to Estonian law, Estonia declares this minimum age as 18 years. By ratifying the protocol, Estonia shows its good will to promote the protection of children's rights, international humanitarian law and solidarity with the efforts of other countries, to restrict the recruitment of child soldiers and their use in military activities. In ratification, Estonia undertakes to provide assistance in the rehabilitation and reintegration of persons who have been victims of an act of protocol, where appropriate, through existing programmes or a voluntary fund established in accordance with the rules of the United Nations General Assembly. Operations relating to the ratification and reporting of the Optional Protocol shall be carried out within the framework of the existing operational expenditure of the Ministries responsible. No revenue or expenditure to be measured directly financially is foreseen. The Protocol shall enter into force for the Republic of Estonia one month after the date of deposit of the instrument of ratification with the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U86	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Rein Aidma, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The Social Affairs Committee discussed draft law 442 on 10 June this year. We have heard the explanation of Tõnu Poopuu, Head of Children's Rights in the Department of Children and Families of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and since the Minister has already given an overview here, I will not dwell on it. A number of questions arose in the Commission. One of them concerned the young members of the Defence League, but this issue has now been resolved by the Defence League Act. For young members, there is so much more that both mobilization and other subjects are covered by the Defence Service Act. Therefore, young Members are not the subject of this protocol. The question was also about the citizens of other countries who were born in Estonia. As a general rule, the right of the Estonian state to protect a minor applies to them. It was also said that if one of the courses in upper secondary school is to organise national defence or camps, this is not the subject of this optional protocol either. In conclusion, it was decided, firstly, to send draft law 442 on the agenda of the plenary session by 11 September; secondly, to propose that the first reading be closed; thirdly, to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 25 September 2013 and to appoint Rein Aidma, member of the Social Affairs Committee as rapporteur. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U88	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U89	Good waitress! It is perhaps a philosophical question, and I do not know whether it really ties in with today's subject, but was there any discussion in the Commission on the possibilities for a minor to defend his or her fatherland if necessary, as the Constitution requires or allows everyone regardless of age?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U90	I hope that we will not have an emergency like that at the time of the creation of the Republic of Estonia, when voluntary schoolchildren formed military units. In today's world, only those who have completed 18 or more years of age are defensive. That is also the subject of this protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U91	No further questions. Thank you very much. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 442. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for tabling 442 amendments. 5.15 p.m. on 25 September 2005.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U92	Today's second item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Public Health Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the speech chair to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of this draft is to ensure the implementation of the European Union Cosmetics Regulation, which achieves a high level of protection of human health and a functioning internal market. To this end, both the Public Health Act and the State Fees Act will be aligned with the European Union Cosmetics Regulation. The draft clarifies the tasks of the competent authority and supervision and lays down the responsibility for the non-compliance with the requirements for cosmetic products and their handling, prevents the non-compliance with the requirements for the handling of cosmetic products and, of course, also the health risks. The target groups for this change are the supervisory authorities, in particular the Health Board, the manufacturers and importers of cosmetic products, and, of course, the people who use cosmetic products. As a more specific nuance, it is stipulated that cosmetic products for teeth whitening and bleaching containing or releasing hydrogen peroxide in the range of 0,1 to 6% must not be freely available to the consumer but may only be sold to dentists. The implementation of the Cosmetics Regulation does not entail significant additional costs for producers or importers, since in principle no new requirements will be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U94	Thank you very much. The question is Viktor Vasiliev. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U95	Good minister! Would you please explain what was wrong or wrong so far in monitoring cosmetic products? Did we do this worse than the European Union is proposing?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U96	No, we certainly did not do it any less, and this supervision has worked so far. But there are quite a few small details about which it makes sense to update the Estonian national regulation in the context of the regulation. Indeed, in the lion's part, these are very technical and detailed nuances. The only substantial, worth noting innovation is that certain teeth whitening products are no longer freely available under the new regime, but can only be sold to dentists who can carry out these procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U97	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U98	Dear Minister, I understand that this bill specifically regulates the availability of cosmetics. But so far it has been that all products that are now subject to stricter regulation have been quite easily accessible to the consumer. Have there been any cases where the use of such cosmetic products has caused any damage to human health?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U99	It is certainly worthwhile for the consumer to be careful and to make sure that all cosmetic products are authorised. But it will also be monitored in official sales networks. If a product is purchased under the cover, the risk is certainly significantly higher. At the same time, such sales in Estonia are not so extensive that we should apply very vigorous anti-trafficking measures. It is important that people's awareness goes along with time, and it is certainly worthwhile looking at ingredients from the packaging of the product. That's a pretty good way to get the information.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U100	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U101	Good minister! Are teeth bleaches containing less than 0.1% of hydrogenylic acid still available for sale?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U102	If they're not banned, then they're allowed. However, I am not as big a teeth whitening specialist as to say whether a device containing less than 0.1% hydrogen peroxide can have a tangible effect on teeth whitening. As a common consumer, I know that toothpaste also has a certain whitening effect, but certainly not as strong as when using more hydrogen peroxide. It is always worthwhile for each of us to examine the packaging, but the assumption is that if experts have proposed this 0.1% limit, then it does not pose a risk to human health. That is why this border is exactly like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U103	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U104	Dear Minister, I don't quite know if these cosmetic products are medically effective or dangerous to health. Why are we restricting sales and allowing them to be used only by dentists? If they are harmful to health, perhaps they should not be sold at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U105	Many things are dangerous to health if they are used without knowledge or indications. I'll bring a parallel with prescription drugs. They are certainly not hazardous to health if taken when they are indicated for a particular person. At the same time, prescription medicinal products can cause very serious health harm if they are used without knowledge and available for free sale. The same is true of teeth whitening products. Professional dentists get a good enough result with them, but when people use them themselves, experts in the European Union estimate that there are certain health risks. I believe that we have reason to trust this expert assessment and to change Estonian regulations accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U106	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U107	Dear Minister, Many so-called cosmetic products are sold in dubious booths. They are certainly not sold illegally there, but in many cases they are used not for cosmetic purposes, such as perfuming themselves, but like alcohol. You know what I'm talking about, that's what we've been talking about in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Does this law also regulate the availability, consumption and introduction of these perfumed liquids? Drinking these liquids is seriously damaging to the health of Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U108	No, the European Union Cosmetics Regulation does not deal directly with the so-called 'troinoi'. This does not mean, however, that Parliament's committees could not continue the debate on this issue. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, and if I am not mistaken, the Committee on Social Affairs has also dealt with this and you could think about how to restrict the unintended use of such products and whether this is even possible. One possibility that we have discussed carefully is the excise taxation of certain cosmetic products. We have realized, however, that the benefits would be less than what it is worth. This would lead to such absurdity that some very small amount of completely ordinary cologne should be taxed. The collection of this tax would most likely be more costly if it were introduced, and the whole system would become absurd. At the same time, it is true that, perhaps not as much as it used to be, but to some extent a variety of perfumes are still being used as a drink, and Parliament's committees could certainly discuss whether this should be restricted and, if so, how.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U109	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. Mr Helmen Küti, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair, as co-rapporteur!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Public Health Act and the State Fees Act 436 at its meeting on 10 June. Leelo Männik, Head Specialist of the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Kersti Berendsen-Koržets, Legal Adviser to the Legal Department, gave an overview of these laws and drafts. Since the Minister has already presented the content of the draft as well as the answers to the questions, I would only focus on the questions raised by the Commission and their answers. It is true that some have already been dealt with in this Chamber today. The question was asked whether similar rules apply to neighbouring countries. The answer was that in all EU countries, products sold on the market are subject to the same rules. This Cosmetics Regulation applies to all European Union producers, importers and sellers. The question was also whether the consumer can read from the packaging the amount of hydrogen peroxide in the teeth whitener. The answer was that teeth whiteners should not be sold in retail trades; they are sold only to dentists on a wholesale basis. There were further discussions on natural cosmetics and solarium, but these are not relevant to this draft. Certain state fees were also discussed, which were said to have been abolished for activities that no longer take place. There was also a question of how far it would be to prepare a new Public Health Act. In response, we found that the intention to develop a new Public Health Act should be presented by the end of 2013. In conclusion, the Commission considered that this was a very necessary draft and made the following consensual decisions: firstly, to send the draft law on the agenda of the plenary session today; secondly, to propose that the first reading be closed; thirdly, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 25 September and to appoint Mr Kütt of the Social Committee as rapporteur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U111	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Helmen Hunter! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 436. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 436 amendments. 5.15 p.m. on 25 September 2005.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U112	Let's go to the third item on today's agenda. The first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Secretary of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The amendments to the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity seek to clarify the rules on the exemption of excise goods introduced by travellers from countries outside the European Union. The aim is to reduce the order of border crossings, prevent illegal trade in excise goods and ensure the proper implementation of the European Union Directive. The Directive allows for exemption from excise duty where the production of goods is of an occasional nature. The draft defines the frequency of the introduction of excise goods into the country at random. According to this draft, alcohol and fuel have been brought to Estonia at random if this is done once every calendar month. Tobacco products can be brought to Estonia twice in a calendar month by chance because of the application of a reduced duty-free limit. A Member State may choose to exempt 40 or 200 cigarettes, and up to 40 cigarettes shall be exempt from excise duty in Estonia. The tax authority shall be given the discretion to apply an additional exemption from excise duty on the basis of the passenger's explanations and the frequency of previous border crossings. There is no change in the excise rules for international freight and passenger transport. Neither will the rules applicable to passengers arriving in Estonia by aircraft, train or ship from a non-Union country change. In addition, the arrangements for supplying excise goods to aircraft and vessels located in another Member State will be amended in accordance with the European Commission Regulation and other drafting clarifications will be made for reasons of legal clarity. The deadline for the entry into force of the Act, which was scheduled for 1 October, is, unfortunately, postponed according to the duration of the draft procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U114	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U115	Thank you. Dear Minister, This draft law sort of clarifies the rules on the exemption from excise duty of excise goods brought from a non-Union country. The aim is to reduce the order of border crossings and to prevent illegal trade in excise goods brought from a non-Union country. I think this goal is a bit wrong. Are you even aware that there are almost no lines at the border? If this law is adopted in this way, the application of the law creates a situation where so-called discretion leads to a great deal of contradictions, very many passengers do not comply with the law, and border queues begin to recover. You should have gone to the border. Then you would know that there are no real border queues.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U116	Thank you. Border queues disappeared in connection with our toughened policy. This draft clarifies this aggravated policy in line with the legal remarks. At the level of the law, regulation should be more formalised. I do not mean that regulation and practice were wrong, but the law must say this in a bit more detail. Above all, it is necessary to fix at the level of the law what the random nature is. That's what we do. Indeed, we have almost lost the border queues, but there has always been discretion. The continued exercise of the right of discretion, if the legal regulation is clearer, cannot lead to new border rankings. I'm sure it's irrational. But when I came to this hall, I heard your question to the Minister of Social Affairs. You were just worried about the border trade. The question, though, was about bringing the cologne across the border, but it was still, in my opinion, full of heartache for the health of our people. This bill, too, is concerned about public health. For example, by making tobacco, but in fact even the rules for bringing fuel across the border more relaxed, it favours the consumption of excise goods with harmful effects. I urge you, who have fought very actively on this subject, to think that way. Estonia's excise policy envisages reducing the availability of such goods rather than increasing them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U117	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U118	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Finance! Let me get this straight. In this draft law, the fact that goods are brought to Estonia once a month is considered to be random? If so, do you have any information on how our neighbours, Latvia, Lithuania or Finland, as well as other countries of the European Union, determine randomity? How common is this randomity?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U119	Thank you. We have the right to define randomity. I have to make it clear that in the case of fuel, it is once a month, twice a month in the case of tobacco. In the case of different goods, the definition of random is different. This has also been defined by Latvia and Lithuania, and it is tougher there, i.e. this frequency is once a week. I can't find the answer right now if it's tobacco or fuel or both. This information, of course, we have, we have compared these practices.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U120	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U121	Thank you. Dear Minister, This liquid, which I asked the Minister for Social Affairs, is not only produced in Estonia as a contraband, but also in a perfectly legal way. With my activity, I will try to achieve at least that this fluid is limited to Estonia. But I'm asking about this bill. If this draft law is still based on the definition of randomness, why has the Ministry of Finance not based itself on other legal provisions that limit the amount of fuel that can be imported into Estonia free of excise duty for people and frontier workers living in border areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U122	Thank you. For the same reasons that you hurt your heart when talking about bringing the cologne to Estonia, but not just for these reasons. People living in border areas are equivalent to people living beyond the border, their health is important to us, too, and we do not want to poison them with cheap excise goods. It's as simple as that. No kidding, that's exactly what it is. If you wish, we can also talk about revenue from the budget and uniform taxation. In my opinion, however, excise policy still starts with minimising harmful side effects. I do not accept the idea that citizens living in border areas must benefit from tax incentives so that they can poison themselves and the environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U123	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U124	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Gas can be brought to Latvia and Lithuania once a week, to Estonia only once a month. Will the Baltic Unity start to crumble? Why are our people treated so differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U125	Thank you. We're really a little more liberal here. I don't know all of their regulation, maybe some other point will level out that difference. I found a reference to alcohol at the time of the question, but if, once a week, all excise goods can be brought into the country, or some of the three, I have to specify that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U126	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. I would like to ask for a co-presentation of Inara Luigas, Member of the Monetary Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U127	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The meeting of the Riigikogu Committee on Finance took place on Monday, 17 June. Most of the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs took part, and only Eiki Nestor was missing. Heidi Vessel and Lauri Tolumees, chief specialists of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, were invited. A debate was held in the Commission on this subject. Following the debate, the Commission decided to appoint Inara Luis, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session by 11 September 2013 (consensus) and to propose the completion of the first reading (by 6 votes to 2 with 2 abstentions). It was also decided to propose a deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 25 September, for amendments to be tabled. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (47 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz; Let me give you a brief presentation of what was discussed in the hearing. First the representatives of the Ministry of Finance presented a brief presentation of the law, then there was a debate and there were many questions. There were also questions that the representatives of the Ministry of Finance could not answer. In the course of the debate, it was asked how tax-free limits were found for excise goods coming across borders, for example, on the basis of which it was found that duty-free alcohol can be brought across borders no more than once a month and tobacco products twice a month. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance replied that all these quantities were assessed and taken into account for how long these quantities could continue. In principle, it was taken into account that, for example, a Narva resident who can bring a certain amount of excise goods to Estonia free of excise duty should not be able to cover all his consumption needs only with the goods brought from Russia, but should also need to buy the goods in Estonia in order for him to pay the excise duty here. Page 10 of the explanatory memorandum shows how the fuel quantity is calculated. There was interest in comparison with other countries. Lithuania and Latvia also provide for quantitative restrictions. In Lithuania, this limit is five times a month. There are no restrictions for people studying or working in a non-Union country. Goods free of excise duty may be brought to Latvia once every seven days. In Finland, however, customs rules are implemented most generally and no random restrictions are foreseen in Finland. In general, excise goods are considered to be occasional when they are brought into the country twice a week. There was also a question of what discretion is, and for what reason the tax authority takes the decision that a person can bring cigarettes to Estonia three times, alcohol and fuel twice a month. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance also said that the inclusion of such a provision makes the situation very difficult for tax and customs officials, because there are no general criteria for tax and customs officials to decide that this procedure is no longer random and excise duty is to be paid on excise goods. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance said that it would be much easier if, as in Latvia and Lithuania, the number of times were set, but according to this law, the basic criterion is the definition of randomity. However, as I said before, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board still does not comply with the laws currently in force in Estonia. If the Tax and Customs Board is given a margin of discretion, then after all the messes that are currently taking place at the customs border, I cannot imagine what kind of confusion will occur there. It was also discussed that it is important to distinguish between frequent crossings and those who rarely cross borders. An example was given that if Russia is carrying a large car with a 100 - litre tank of petrol, this amount of petrol can travel up to 12,000 kilometres, which is quite enough to satisfy all human driving needs. It is feared that there will be no need to buy fuel from the Estonian zone at all. I would add that they are referred to as extreme examples. Of course, I, and the initiators of the bill, must also fight contraband, but there are certain provisions of the directive that allow the introduction of goods free of excise duty. It was discussed why this bill had not been brought to the Riigikogu before. The Chancellor of Justice has done a very thorough analysis of the introduction of excise goods from Russia into Estonia. It can be assumed that the Supreme Court has also sent some disputes to the European Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling, which means that the current procedures of the Tax and Customs Board at the border are completely controversial. It was also asked whether this restriction was legally compatible with the Directive and whether it was coordinated with the Chancellor of Justice and with the officials of his administration. However, it was said that the directive has not specifically defined randomity and that there is a risk. If we look at the explanations contained in this draft law, for example, in the comparative table of amendments to legal sources, subsections 24 201 and 202 state that they are presumed to comply with the article of the directive, but we are far from knowing whether they actually comply with all the directives of the European Union. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance also said such an interesting thing that the Chancellor of Justice suggested asking the European Union what randomness means. This is what the representatives of the Ministry of Finance did in order to clarify the criteria already contained in the directives, i.e. randomity. It turned out that none of the Member States of the European Union wanted to clarify the random criterion, with France and Poland having little interest in it. Neither Lithuania nor Latvia have raised this issue. This clearly shows that no other Member State has built up an exemption from excise duty on the carriage of goods in its own country by virtue of the random criteria mentioned in the Directive. However, the European Commission's view was that the Member States had certain specific characteristics. The state can define what is random, but it must also not conflict with the rules of freedom of movement or with the directives of the European Union. They asked how a database would be created when, for example, a person comes to Estonia for the first time and does not have excise-free goods with him, but he brings the goods on the third or fourth time, for example. The officials of the Ministry of Finance said that administration in all this way will cost the Estonian state very dearly. It is as if the human being is obliged to collect all possible excise goods on the first occasion during the calendar month, for example, when coming from Russia. In the committee, the opinion was that all passengers leaving Estonia, or anyone coming from Russia, would carry contraband. That is far from the case. There are two groups of people: those who are involved in smuggling, and those Estonian or Russian citizens who have the right to come to Estonia without paying excise duty. For example, people living near the border who have burial places for relatives in Russia, whose relatives live there or have real estate there have a legitimate expectation that they will be able to visit Russia repeatedly under these conditions. Let me give you an example. A person travels to Russia and does not bring excise goods, then he goes to a funeral in Russia and does not bring excise goods, and on the third or fourth occasion he no longer obtains this right. However, in essence, it does have this right under the Directive. There was also talk about what happens to the people who Russia and Estonia have exchanged quotas for. 2800 people have real estate, relatives' cemeteries or relatives living there in a neighbouring country. There was also talk about how the directive still regulates the introduction of non-excision goods. Estonia has the right, by decree of the Minister of Finance or other internal arrangements, to set a quantitative rate for residents and frontier workers in border areas, of which no more fuel, alcohol or tobacco products may be introduced into the country of Estonia free of excise duty within a month. However, Estonia has not done so. A very strong controversy arose over the application of discretion. How does that right come about anyway? When, for example, will excise duty or duty be paid on fuel? The following example was provided: A person goes from Estonia to Russia and declares in writing the amount of fuel he has with him. When he comes back to Estonia after refueling in Russia, he says he really does not know how much fuel he has in the tank. This meant that the person would be taken off the track, the fuel would be pumped out of the tank and measured, and only after that would it be repaired how many litres of fuel he had been fueled in Russia, and he would pay excise duty on it. I cannot imagine how Russian businessmen or tourists and all those who come from Russia, for example, to our spas or to carry out health checks, will declare their fuel quantity to an accuracy of one litre. It cannot be that the Estonian state simply puts a certain amount on paper and charges a tax on it. The basis for the payment of the fuel excise duty is a litre and therefore all measurements must be made accurately. As the Minister of Finance has already said, I have been active in this matter. I will certainly also go to the border inspection posts to see these meters, the measurement procedures and the accompanying documents, so that we can see how all these things are done. There was a discussion as to why the Tax and Customs Board did not implement the laws in force until last year. According to the laws in force, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board was not allowed to bring tax-free products to Estonia more than once a day, yet the Estonian Tax and Customs Board did not comply with the law and promised to bring fuel across the border even up to ten times a day. Why was it done and the law violated? No one has explained it, and no one is responsible for it, of course. It was also asked whether this issue had been discussed in the Special Committee on State Budget Control. It's been discussed. The Special Committee on State Budget Control held an exit session at the Koidula border crossing point, which was attended by all the members of the committee. They understood the problem of excise duty exemptions for fuel, tobacco products and alcohol. They were talking about transport companies. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance said that these restrictions do not apply to international transport. To that end, we are bound by international agreements, and under these agreements there is an exemption from excise duty. It was discussed repeatedly how a Russian tourist would declare fuel if he left Estonia and returned to Estonia with a fuel residue, doing so repeatedly. Maybe we'll get those answers next time. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance also said that the purpose of establishing a random criterion is still to limit the introduction of excise-free goods into Estonia. This provision requires all these citizens to buy more fuel in Estonia. Comparisons with Finland were also developed. In Finland, alcohol cannot be introduced into the country if the person has not been out of the country for at least 20 hours. But it is not only the tax rule that regulates it; rather, it is the regulation of health protection law. The Commission, of course, protested against the discretion given to the Tax and Customs Board to fine citizens by paying excise duty. This situation will live its life until the Estonian Tax and Customs Board is finally given the right to say who is an entrepreneur and who is not. They also talked about the entry into force of the law; it must enter into force on 1 October. I think we have to wait a little while before it comes into force, because we will not be done with this law by 1 October. That's it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U128	Let's get to the questions. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U129	Thank you. Good colleague! The more I hear about this bill, the more technical questions I have. A few weeks ago, I drove from Belarus to Latvia and really had to fill out a compulsory form, but I don't remember being asked about petrol or something like that. I'll come back to the bill. I understand the first time you go through customs, you don't have to fill out that paper. But if you go through customs for the second time in a month, do you have to notify it in writing, or do you have to fill out this form when you are asked to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U130	Thank you for your question. Indeed, when a passenger comes from Russia for the first time to Estonia, the goods are exempt from excise duty and are not asked for excise duty. The question arises as to whether or not the next time a person comes to Estonia, the Tax and Customs Board will charge excise duty. If a passenger declares his fuel quantity on departure from Estonia, for example, he declares in writing that he has 50 litres of fuel, that means that if he comes back the second time, having taken more fuel in Russia, for example, there are 70 litres of fuel in the tank, the difference of 20 litres will be calculated and the excise duty and all duties will be paid at 20 litres. But whether it is possible to impose on passengers the obligation to make declarations in writing, I cannot say that. This is what we will probably discuss when a new Commission meeting comes. After all, it is possible that people living at the border come to Estonia on the second or third time in the same quantity, but they have not taken more fuel. So there are contradictions and contradictions in the regulations, but we will probably get answers to all the questions when we meet the representatives of the Ministry of Finance again.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U131	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U132	Thank you, manager. Dear Commission waitress, Did the Commission discuss whether this approach is offensive to the Estonian people? Unlike our neighbours, Lithuanians, Latvians, and Finns, our people are treated several times more harshly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U133	Thank you. Inara, you missed the deadline for submitting amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U134	I said that in the introduction. The deadline for tabling amendments is 10 working days, the deadline being 25 September.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U135	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U136	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the Estonian Central Party Group, but it has already happened that I am talking more about what has been done by the special committee on the control of the state budget of the Riigikogu. We had a s. a meeting on 16 and 17 May, one of the items on the agenda was the visit to the Koidula railway border station, where we also held a meeting. If anyone would like to have access to this protocol, it is available on the page of the special committee. This could be really interesting. We met with the Head of the Customs Department of the Tax and Customs Board and his deputy, the Chief Inspector at the South Customs Point of the Tax and Customs Board, the Deputy Head of the Migration and Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, members of the Meremäe Vallavolikogu and local residents. For the first time, the Commission understood what the real problem was. For example, there were many cases that described it quite vividly. The committee decided that it would tackle this problem and also hold a debate in the Riigikogu. This debate was already held on 17 June. There were representatives from the Ministry of Finance, the Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of the Interior, and several departments of the Ministry of Finance. The staff of the Chancellor of Justice's office and, of course, the representatives of the National Audit Office were also present. This was a rather interesting debate, with a verbatim report on the special committee's website. Unfortunately, I can't read it because it's 32 pages long, the hearing lasted for hours. But there's one thing I can say for sure. The committee, where, I remind you, all the groups and political forces of the Riigikogu are represented, came to the consensual conclusion that what is mentioned in this bill is precisely the points on the basis of which discretion is given to the tax authorities, who must also consider this randomness, of course, a great folly. It cannot be denied that border guards do not want to appreciate this randomness and do not want to have this discretion, because it makes their lives very and very bitter. The rules must be uniform and understandable, and the law can be enforced. If it doesn't exist, the same shit that's been at the border for months will continue. During the summer, the members and officials of the Commission developed two documents, which should be coordinated either tomorrow or Monday. I hope with one of them I come to this hall again. But since I am speaking on behalf of a group now, I say that the Central Party Group will not support this draft law in the form that it has been put into the procedure. However, in the hope that we will be able to improve this bill, we will leave the draft a vote of distrust for second reading. At the moment, we hope, given that the representatives of all political groups... Can I get an extension?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U137	One more minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U138	We have the hope that we will be able to find a common language and solve this problem, so today we will not protest against this bill. But once again, if you are interested in this argument and in the cases that have been discussed, please make sure that you look at the minutes of the Special Committee on State Budget Control on 17 June. Everyone understands this document, which is actually at the heart of the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U139	Thank you. I have a warrant. The mandate has been given by Eiki Nestor on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U140	Thank you. I ask you to give Inara Luiga a microphone because I have a few questions under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Based on the principles of the first reading procedure, I ask whether you have a mandate and, if you have a mandate, what kind of group mandate it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I personally and very many people in South-East Estonia are sincerely pleased that this bill ended up in the Riigikogu Hall, but our shock was great when we learned about its contents. I will introduce a little bit of all these regulations and directives. Council Regulation No 1186/2009 establishes a Community system of reliefs from customs duty and regulates the operation of the customs union with effect from 1 January 2010. Article 107 of Chapter 28 of that Regulation provides that fuel coming into the Union free of charge may be imported into a standard fuel tank for private or commercial motor vehicles or motor cycles or special containers entering the customs territory of the Community, in addition to a maximum of 10 litres per vehicle in a portable tank, without prejudice to national legislation on the possession and transport of fuel. As I said before, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder has done a very thorough analysis of this whole issue. It also takes the view that, on the basis of Articles 6 and 11 of Directive 2007/74/EC, fuel in the standard tank of any motor vehicle can be imported into Estonia free of excise duty and 10 litres of fuel in a portable container if the fuel is of an occasional nature and the fuel is intended for consumption or a gift for personal or family members. Article of Directive 2007/74/EC is imperative, i.e. Member States do not have discretion as to whether or not to introduce an exemption. The same Directive allows for lower tax exemptions for persons living in the border area and for frontier workers. According to Article 3, a frontier worker is a person who, in the normal course of his/her activities, has to cross the border on his/her working days. However, a border area is defined in the regulation as an area which, in a bird's flight, does not extend more than 15 kilometres from the border of a Member State and covers local administrative units whose territory is part of a border area. However, Member States are allowed to provide for derogations from this provision. Thus, the Community Customs Code gives each Member State the possibility to apply exemptions for fuel quantities in border regions. However, Estonia has not yet wished to introduce them. I will now introduce how these things are regulated in our neighbouring countries. As Finnish customs are part of the common customs system of the European Union, the customs rules are based on European Union law. Finnish customs law permits the import of fuel in the standard tank of a vehicle free of tax from a country outside the European Union and may be exempt from tax of a portable tank with up to 10 litres of the same fuel in the vehicle. Finland has implemented the rules of the European Union Customs Union in its most general form, without exception. In Finland, customs workers have not been given internal instructions with a number of times. Norway is not a Member State of the European Union and applies its rules for cross-border movements. Fuel transported to a country for personal and non-commercial use shall be exempt if the conditions are in accordance with the relevant part of the customs regulation. In the standard tank of the vehicle (i.e. in a tank manufactured by the manufacturer for all vehicles of the same type), up to 600 litres of fuel per month may be imported to Norway free of charge. In addition, for each vehicle, no more than 10 litres of fuel may be imported into the country in a portable tank complying with an approved standard. Can I have five more minutes just in case?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U142	Thank you. Dear Tarmo! If you could see what the Tax and Customs Board is doing today because of the law, how all these citizens of the Republic of Estonia will be punished, how they will be forced to pay taxes! That is indeed an insulting thing to do. The law has not been amended, yet the tax and customs officials have been given the right to decide, without restriction, when the citizen and the traveller will be liable to tax. Compared to other Member States, such as Lithuania, Latvia and Finland, this law aims to turn over and tighten the conditions for the arrival of all passengers in Estonia. It's too early to talk about the consequences. I spoke to a Russian citizen who brought his wife to Põlva Hospital to give birth. I asked him if he knew that there would soon be a law under which he would have to pay excise duty on several occasions when he came to Estonia. He didn't know what we were talking about. As a general rule, and also as a result of the directives, fuel in the fuel tank is passenger luggage, which is considered tax-free. Of course, very many people in South-East Estonia have expressed resentment. I hope that the law will not be passed in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U143	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Inara, remind me, please! Did the Committee on Monetary Affairs discuss the strange situation that has arisen at the border, where the law says one thing, but the customs officials act according to what the Chancellor of Justice has said?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U145	The Chancellor of Justice has done a very good analysis of this subject. I always carry this analysis with me. It's over 20 pages long, and I'm not going to introduce it here. But lawyers have also said that if the law has not been amended, the law will apply. Currently, the Tax and Customs Board has been granted an unlimited right. Tax and customs officials have been hiding behind the Chancellor of Justice's opinion as if they were allowed to bring fuel to Estonia twice a month tax-free. It's completely illegal, there's no such law. The Estonian state has not amended the law, which means that the Estonian Tax and Customs Board will arbitrarily determine the quantities to be taxed; it will determine to whom it will determine the taxes. I have spoken repeatedly about the way in which citizens have been dealt with. What is happening at the border is illegal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U146	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U147	Thank you. I have a request for you, good fellows. The domestic and operational rules provide for the right of reply, but replies can be submitted during the negotiations. The first reading is closed and the third item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U148	I can give you up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U149	Thank you. Now the example of Sweden. The Swedish customs authorities, as part of the common customs system of the European Union, are bound by Community customs rules. A non-EU country shall be exempt from tax on the import of fuel contained in the vehicle's standard tank and may also be exempt from tax on a carry-on tank of up to 10 litres with the same fuel as in the vehicle. Sweden, like Finland, applies the rules of the European Union Customs Union in the most general form for general fuel transport without exceptions and without restrictions, as Estonia wishes to introduce. There was a history of how it was regulated in Latvia. Fuels can be imported to Latvia duty-free once every seven days. Tax-free fuel may be imported to Lithuania up to five times a month. However, if you think that there could be some interval, there must certainly be some exceptions and the possibility of bringing tax-free fuel to Estonia more than once a month. Just one example. A person doesn't cross the border for six months, but then he needs to cross the border five times a month. After all, this gives the right to define it as random, so fuel should not be taxed either. It must also take into account how this law will regulate the taxation of tourists coming from Russia to Estonia. I refer to Andres Kõiv, the governor of Võru County, who, after going to the Pihkva fair, said that Russians have a great interest in travelling to Estonia. In addition to tourism, people go to Võru and Põlva to give birth, to vaccinate children and to health check. It is clear that the introduction of such a law will also give these people strong setbacks. We do not request an interruption of the procedure for the draft law. We hope that there will be enough time to make this bill a good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U150	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U151	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Despite my long parliamentary term, it is difficult for me to recall a similar case if a member of the Riigikogu, on behalf of the committee, had so gruesomely exhibited his own attitudes and views, ridiculing what was said in the committee and basically reflecting questions that were critical of the draft, doing so in very detailed terms and freely throwing accusations of violations of law. I would understand if Inara Luis did this on behalf of the group, but the Commission could certainly not claim that the Tax and Customs Board was breaking the law. What do I want with this? In particular, I can do what was said by representatives of the Ministry of Finance in the Commission. The positions of the Ministry of Finance and its officials are expressed in this draft, not anywhere else. So it is wrong for Inara Luis, as a representative of a citizen, politician or committee, to say something else. What's in the law represents the position of the Ministry of Finance. I have a proposal to the Bureau in the future to ensure that, when the decision was to close the first reading of the draft, the Commission's stance on the draft could not be unmistakably negative. But, above all, I have a proposal to the Committee on Monetary Affairs to better monitor who is going to be sent to the board during the debate on one subject or another and to correct the errors that were made in today's report. They were malicious and deceitful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U152	Thank you. I do not consider it appropriate for the executive power to interfere in the work of the legislative authority in this way. We have a separation of powers. The committee, the plenary assembly and the members of the Riigikogu shall carry out as provided for in our regulations. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 449 amendments. 5.15 p.m. on 25 September 2005. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U153	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'm glad there's enough of you left in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U154	I'm sorry, what do you want to say?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U155	I want to say a few words about this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U156	Do you want to use the right of reply?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U157	I'm using the right of reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U158	This should have happened when the negotiations lasted, but the negotiations are closed. However, if the members of the Riigikogu do not protest, you have the right to submit a reply. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U159	Thank you. I am very sorry to hear about Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, who is already absent from the work of the Riigikogu and who does not have an overview of what is happening in this Chamber. Very often, as a national envoy elected from South-East Estonia, I have had to listen here to the verbatim reports of the sitting of the Tallinn City Council, which have been presented by the members of the committee who have been acting as a Commission waitress. Often neither has the presentation of the members of the Reform Party had any connection with the draft. I hope Jürgen Ligi won't be mad at me for a long time. Everything I told you is the truth. I'm sticking to my point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U160	I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U161	Let's go to the fourth item on the agenda. The first reading of the draft Act 450, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion and the ratification of the Protocol thereto, begins. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U162	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I apologise in advance if it seems to anyone that the executive power is interfering with the activities of the legislator with this report! This was not my intention for the previous speech either, but I simply do not have another forum to draw attention to the violation of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act when a representative of the Commission attacks the draft that I have tabled, in conflict with the Home and Working Rules Act. It was just a proposal I put forward here, not a demand. Now I'm going to introduce the bill. The purpose of double taxation agreements is to encourage investment, ensure equal treatment of persons and eliminate double taxation. In order to achieve this objective, the Agreement shares tax rights between the Contracting Parties, avoiding discriminatory taxation and preventing tax evasion. Estonia has ratified double taxation agreements with 52 countries. All tax agreements are based on the Standard Agreement of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the differences arise from the mutual agreement of the delegations of the Contracting Parties, which was reached during the negotiations. It took three rounds of negotiations to reach the initialling of the tax agreement with Cyprus. The most important differences between the Estonian-Cyprus Agreement and the OECD Standard Agreement are as follows: First, the right to tax the dividend and interest remains solely with the State of residence of the beneficial owner, while the OECD Standard Agreement divides the right to tax between the State of residence and the State of source of income. Secondly, only the State of residence of the company operating the ship has the right to tax the remuneration of the ship operating the international transport operation, whereas the OECD Standard Agreement divides the tax rights between the State of residence and the State of the source of income. Such a tax agreement could create more favourable conditions for taxpayers than national law, as it does not provide additional tax opportunities for countries but only limits existing tax rights established by national law. The primacy of foreign treaties over domestic law is laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. According to this, in the event of a conflict between Estonian laws and ratified foreign agreements, the provisions of the foreign treaty will apply. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U163	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? Minister, thank you. There are no questions. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by Andres Jalaku, member of the Riigikogu, representative of the Monetary Affairs Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion and related protocol in 450 s. 17 June 2010 at the meeting. Helen Pahabill, adviser to the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, gave an overview of the objectives of the draft. The agreement with Cyprus is the last agreement to be concluded with a Member State of the European Union; these agreements have already been concluded with all the other countries of the European Union. As the Minister pointed out, the specific nature of this agreement lies in Article 10, which concerns the taxation of dividends, and Article 12, which concerns the taxation of royalties. The discussion raised the question of how the tax exchange with Cyprus would take place. The representative of the initiator of the draft act explained that the exchange of information would take place in particular by means of enquiries and that the procedure was specified in point 2 of the Protocol to the Agreement. Since this is a standard contract, it is evident that there were no questions of principle in the Commission on this draft. The Finance Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft be stopped and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set. 16 September 2010 at 3 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U165	Thank you, dear waitress. You have at least one question. Reet Roos, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U166	Thank you. Dear waitress, Do you know what happens next and what the following countries with whom a double taxation agreement is concluded could be like?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U167	Thank you. If my memory isn't fooled, then the next two countries are Mexico and Bahrain.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U168	Good waitress, no more questions. Thank you. I open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Estonian Centre Party Group to Mikhail Stalnukhini!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U169	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This agreement between Estonia and Cyprus is, of course, an excellent thing. However, since I, like the Minister of Finance, have no tribunal other than this one, I want to depart from the subject just as he did and, firstly, to inform you that the presentation made by the Commission's representative during the debate on the previous item on the agenda corresponded exactly to the debate that took place in the Commission. Thanks to the fact that everyone had seen the situation on the ground in Koidula, there was a rather good and constructive dialogue this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U170	Honourable Member of the Riigikogu Mikhail Stalnukhin! I very much ask you to stay with bill 450 during the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U171	I mean, the minister can protest, but we don't have that chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-11_U172	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 450 amendments. a on 16 September 2010 at 15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fourth item is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 3.29 p.m.
