ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U1	Honourable fellows! Good minister! Dear spectators! We will begin the session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 11th working week. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries! No calls, so let's get to the messages. Dear colleagues, today, after the plenary session of the Riigikogu, a Rail Baltic Support Group will be formed in this Chamber. The group is convened by Kalle Palling, a member of the Riigikogu. We're conducting a presence check. 73 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 28.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the debate on the key national issue of 'Organisation of local road storage'. Before we begin this, let us briefly present the procedure for its discussion in accordance with § 153 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. First, Andre Sepa, member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, will give a presentation for up to 20 minutes, followed by questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. After that, the presentation of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications will be up to 20 minutes and the questions and answers will be up to 20 minutes. The third is the presentation of Märt Molli, adviser of the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, for up to 30 minutes, followed by questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. After the presentations, negotiations will be opened. Speakers may be representatives of committees and political groups and other members of the Riigikogu. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. I would ask Mr Sepa, Member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, to present a presentation on the issue of the 'Holding Local Roads' issue of major importance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good morning from me too! Pursuant to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Riigikogu commission can prepare a report to examine a subject falling within its area of competence.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U4	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. Good fellows, there's a lot of noise in the hall. Please respect the waitress, as well as those who wish to listen to this presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U5	In 2010, the National Audit Office's audit report was completed, which was processed by the Special Committee on State Budget Control on 15 November of the same year. The report identified a number of shortcomings in the calculation of local roads, indicated the undefined need for funding, as well as the limited monitoring of road condition requirements. In April this year, the National Audit Office informed the Special Committee that nothing has been done to remedy the deficiencies. In view of this situation, the Special Committee on State Budget Control decided in June to draw up a report on "Organisation of local roads." By decision of the Commission, I was appointed rapporteur, and the report was drawn up with the help of Commission officials Ly Oper, Vivian Põll and Intern Miriam Vikiski. I introduced the report to the committee, it was confirmed on 27 November and it was decided to send it to the Riigikogu Chamber for discussion. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that today's discussion of the subject here in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu as an important national issue will give impetus to resolving this important issue for all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U6	Good fellow Andre Sepp, you are very strongly interfering with this trial with me. I propose that both you and I be even so that the conversation can take place in the hall. It seems, however, that you may proceed. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U7	Thank you! I now go to the introduction to the road maintenance report. I have focused on four key issues in this area, such as the public road register, local government road management plans, supervision of local government road management and the financing model. I hope that this report has been accessible to all of you, however, I will still give a brief overview of the content of this report. The topicality of the subject is probably known to everyone. Local authorities and government have not reached an agreement on the management of local roads. We set out the aim of the report to identify the need for funding for local government roads and to propose a more efficient use of local government budgets and the implementation of the control system. The work on the report was as follows: We sent out a questionnaire to local authorities on the subject. There were 226 municipalities in Estonia, 108 of them. I also interviewed representatives of the National Audit Office, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior, the Road Administration, the City Association and the Association of Rural Municipalities. Let the nature of the roads described as an introduction to the topic, which comes from the national transport development plan delivered yesterday. According to the latest data, state roads in Estonia are currently 16443 km, local roads 23900 km, private and forest roads 18000 km. The streets account for only 8% of the total number of roads, 0.5% of foot and bike roads. Let it be made clear that there are more local routes in total than in kilometery, but the so-called square meters are left behind on national roads. The area of national roads is therefore larger. Now to the issues more specifically. Firstly, I will briefly address the national road register. According to the National Audit Office, the quality of the national road register is relatively poor. The data fields are too many of them there are 57. Local authorities are obliged to fill a dozen of them and have no resources to do so. However, since the municipalities need to fill these fields in to obtain state funding by writing the lengths and widths to describe the entity, it can be said that the municipalities only fill the register on an ad hoc basis. It has to be acknowledged that urban data is more accurate, probably because of their compactness. The creation of a fully operational road register requires a uniform inventory of roads owned by municipalities. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved, even though this task was also set out in the previous national transport development plan. This objective is clearly stated in the new development plan, but it does not show when the work should be done. The Public Road Administration is in principle willing to adjust the data fields of the register, but in agreement with the municipal associations, this will be done after inventory. The main dispute in the implementation of inventory is related to its financing, and this has been the case for many years. During the drafting of this report, I also asked the municipalities whether their road infrastructure had been measured as to whether they had the necessary data for the register. The replies were very different, and it can only be concluded that the municipalities have reached very different stages of road surveying and recording data in the register. I also asked them how many people there are in the municipality or in the city who want to hand you over to the country. The replies revealed that 108 respondents to the local authorities came to a total of 760 km of roads that they would be willing to negotiate on the transfer. The representative of the Road Administration also agreed that a fairer distribution of road ownership should be negotiated bilaterally and that the feasibility of roads should also be properly analysed. We are now one of those countries with more tea miles per resident than in most other European countries. It is important to consider the frequency of traffic on one route or another. The Road Administration considers that one correct road register would become the so-called Estonian road portfolio. All parties believe that it is very important to obtain as much information as possible about the existence, status and use of roads for its fair funding. The municipal associations have examined the cost of inventorying potential operators and it is estimated that the cost of the work is EUR 1 million. The dispute lies in the fact that the state's representatives consider this to be a problem for road owners, and in the opinion of local authorities it is also a task for the state. I made two clear proposals in this report. Point 1: Carry out, as soon as possible, the inventory of roads on a uniform basis. Point 2: In view of the interests of both the State and the local authorities, pay equally for the inventory of roads. Both interests are at stake here, one having the obligation to keep records and to monitor them, the other having clear ownership obligations. I would now like to stop at the local government's road plans and also to touch on the new transport development plan that was handed over to the Riigikogu yesterday. During the survey on this report, the municipalities asked whether their city had a valid road plan. The responses revealed that a separate road-saving plan existed in 48%, and 20% described it elsewhere. I can claim that 68% of municipalities plan to maintain their roads with a perspective. There were also answers, of course, where the municipalities reported that there was no point in planning road maintenance at all, because the state's financial allocation is small and at the beginning of the year we will see what can be done for it. In its report, the National Audit Office considers that the Tea Act obliges the state to draw up a road plan, but local authorities do not have such an obligation. In their opinion, in the municipalities where the scheme is, the state of the roads is no better than those where the road plan does not exist. When dealing with this issue, none of the parties considered it necessary by law to oblige local authorities to approve road plans. However, it is clear that in each municipality the issue of roads is very important, and the user of each route should be sure of the will of a particular municipality to plan you according to the plan. According to the transport development plan delivered to us, the state will allocate 10% of the amount of excise duty due to local authorities for the construction and repair of roads during the period 2014 to 2020. This is if local governments find the money for their own account. There is no doubt that municipalities are ready to participate, but the road maintenance indicated in the development plan is not separate. I proposed this to the development plan makers, but they explained that the development plan was a general document. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications does not want to restrict requirements in any way; this financial allocation must be available for construction and investment in general. So the current allocation mechanism, where these amounts can be used more generally, should still remain in force. I proposed recommending that local governments plan road maintenance in a way that is clearly understandable to the public, and point 2: in the National Transport Development Plan, provision should be made for facilities for road repair, construction and maintenance. It's been given to us in the process with this plan. Thirdly, monitoring the organisation of road maintenance in local authorities. The use of funds allocated from the state budget can only be verified on an accounting basis. The extent to which local roads have improved thanks to these amounts, unfortunately, the money provider cannot be identified. Local authorities point out that this allocation is very small and that they do not need an additional verification mechanism. The National Audit Office's report shows that since local roads have not been inventoried and their status levels have not been defined, this would be important for safety reasons, it is also difficult to monitor the condition levels of these roads. The road owner is responsible for meeting the road's condition requirements; the supervisor is appointed by the Road Administration, which has improved control. At the time the report was drawn up, the inspection had already been carried out in 15 municipalities and continued. Monitoring shall include, inter alia, a dialogue to agree on an action plan to address the shortcomings. There is also a mechanism of coercion, but it is clear that coercive money should be an extreme method, because it does not clothe the hole, does not straighten the curve, does not clean the ally. The aim is, in fact, a professional dialogue to address the shortcomings. With regard to the so-called "owner supervision" of local governments, it can be said that in relatively small municipalities, this supervision is weak on the roads, mostly for a well-known reason, which is the lack of a skilled workforce. One of the thoughts was that the Road Administration called for the creation of a road safety competence centre for all municipalities, and the parties felt that this discussion should certainly be continued. As proposals, I would point out in point 1: Improving national supervision of compliance with the condition requirements of all roads, and point 2: In order to better organise road management, it is advisable for local authorities to cooperate regionally. I left it undefined what I mean by region. This could be agreed by the municipalities themselves whether this region is based on existing regions or whether it is based on the version and the meaning of the Road Administration. Finally, I would like to focus on the financing model. What is the need to finance local roads at all? The Association of Municipalities has made approximate estimates of how much money might be needed. The calculation shall be based on square meters, as is the case for national routes, taking into account the need for finance and the maintenance interval. At the same time, allegiances, bridges, traffic rates, etc. have been ignored. The Union approximates an estimated EUR 120 million per year. In this case, local roads would have some kind of black cover in 25 years, but if we optimize it, then in 10 to 15 years. By optimization, I mean, above all, preference for dense settlements. The Road Act provides that, in order to finance road maintenance, the state budget provides for expenditure in an overall amount equal to at least 75% of the excise duty on fuel and 25% of the excise duty on specially labelled fuel. In 2005, it was stipulated that at least 10% of the state budget would be allocated to local road investments. In 2009, the additional budget and other legislation provided for the allocation of public budget appropriations for each financial year for the storage of state roads and local roads. As a result, local authorities lost confidence in the amount of money they could draw up their plans and what investment plans they would make. At the same time, the use of money has so far been limited to investment, and now it is also widely used for road maintenance, design and monitoring. It is now known that the sale of excise-covered motor fuel has decreased. However, the municipalities have at their disposal another component of the compensation fund, which takes into account the length of local roads. At the same time, it has to be recognised that the Equalisation Fund is intended for only a part of the municipalities, and that money is currently not available at the moment. According to the Ministry of Finance, municipalities should have some certainty about funding, and this could also be identified in the national budget strategy. However, it is important for the state budget to be flexible, so it is not reasonable to set a certain percentage in the law. That was the position of the Treasury Department. A representative of the Ministry of the Interior thinks that money would definitely be needed more than the current 10%. According to a representative of the Office of the Minister for Regional Affairs, the Minister for Regional Affairs has also proposed that the payment of all road maintenance support be transferred to the basis of the local government's revenue base, with which we would clearly increase the autonomy of the municipality. This proposal has not been taken into account so far. After the inventory of roads, it is clear whether the current distribution of 90% to national roads and 10% to local roads is reasonable and whether the current rate of excise duties is sufficient for road maintenance, repair and investment. The local government associations consider that until the inventory has been carried out and not all the variables affecting road maintenance have been taken into account, there is no point in dealing more specifically with the new financing model. However, in the new funding period of the European Union, there must be opportunities for additional investment in local roads. There were also proposals on this subject. It is clear that it came out of all the analyses, polls and conversations that there is too little money in this sector. Item 1: Given the climate in Estonia and the cost of road maintenance and construction, increase the amounts allocated to the road maintenance of local governments, if possible. Point 2: To reflect local authorities' road-saving resources in the transport development plan and budget strategy in order to provide local authorities with the necessary certainty in their activities. The transport development plan delivered yesterday addresses this issue. Finally, after the inventory of roads, the entire road entity must be analysed and a financing model must be developed that takes into account the financial needs of all Estonian roads and decide whether to continue to cover it as state budget support or to rely solely on the income base of local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U8	Thank you very much. Good colleagues, do you have any questions? Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U9	Good manager! Good waitress, first of all thanks, you've done a really big job! For more than a long time, we could listen to such a well - prepared report in this hall. Knowing you as an ex-municipal manager, I would like to ask you what percentage this could be, which fuel excise should go to the municipalities. As you said, it could be planned that in 15 to 20 years the municipality's way would be so that in summer there would be no worry that dust would come into the garden and strawberries could not be harvested.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U10	Thank you for your question. The current situation is that when I called the need 120 million, the national allocation will be EUR 28 million next year and local authorities will add more than two thirds. In the polls, they all jointly claimed that money was scarce. There was quite a lot of argument in the responses that if this rate were 15%, the situation would certainly be better in this area. The amount actually used is between 28 million and 120 million. It must also be noted that, according to the Local Government Organisation Act, local roads are still the responsibility of the local government, and the Equalisation Fund also takes this into account. According to the Road Act, the provision by the State is intended for the construction, repair and maintenance of local roads, as clearly stated, and it still depends on each state budget how much it can be supported. In particular, I cannot say today from this remote control whether 15, 20, 21 or 41% is correct, it depends on the budgetary possibilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U11	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In your report, you devoted a lot of time to talking about funding and road maintenance, from the technical point of view. I would also like to hear from the engineering side of road construction about whether the construction of our roads really meets today's transport needs. The tea may be expensive and beautiful, but is it good? The smartly built road lasts a long time, and it is good to drive along and ultimately cheap. Did you discuss in the Commission that we should also classify our paths by design, so that we can think about how we manage and finance them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U13	Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U14	Thank you for your question. Good tea begins with a good project and good base material. We know that. The real situation is rather that we try to smooth and improve the top layer so that the roads can be used every day. But I agree with the questioner that a longer-term perspective is needed, so when will we start building both local roads and state roads with a lifetime of at least 15 years. That would mean a proper maintenance field. When I asked this question to draw up the report, I received the answer that it is also planned to revise and implement road construction standards in relation to the new building law. As a pragmatist, however, I think that we are not currently stuck behind these standards, rather because of the lack of opportunities. Nor do we have the courage to decide that we will make two kilometers of road, but we will make it right, not just 20 kilometers of smooth.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U15	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good colleague! You stressed the need for regional cooperation. Can it be concluded from the work of your committee that administrative reform is necessary and perhaps even inevitable if we want to improve the condition of local roads? And can you compare the counties to each other? Are there any counties where road inventory has been carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U16	Kalev Lillo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U17	Thank you. We have not addressed the administrative reform in this context, but you, the road entity, have been considered to be part of this issue. The proposal came for a purely pragmatic reason that smaller local authorities with little money would not make serious mistakes. The competence to order for this little money and how to put it into play in the interest of the user is very important. When I analysed the responses to this questionnaire, I did not notice any major differences across counties, but it has to be said that the cities, especially Tallinn, have drawn up their own road register. The Tallinn register is correct and exemplary, but it can be satisfied with other cities as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U18	Thank you, President-in-Office. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In your report, you are also talking about the fact that local governments have carried mainly the length of their roads in kilometres and perhaps some more data. If, in the future, this register is fixed and all other data is transferred there, such as traffic density, etc., is it theoretically possible that the financing model will change completely? As Chairman of the Harjumaa Support Group, I have this question. It is known that some of Harjumaa roads have a very high traffic load. Is it possible to receive more support for the storage of these roads than for those with lower traffic loads?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U19	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U20	Yes, it is generally considered that the financing must also be based on traffic loads. At present, the basis for allocating money is a tea kilometer, regardless of the width of the road. In smaller municipalities, the average road is 3.7 metres wide, while in Tallinn's response I read that they have roads that are 30 metres wide. But the basis for funding is one. The objective of a proper road register is to make support per square metre so that local authorities can rely on clearer and needs-based funding. At the moment, the more telecommunications there are, the more you can apply for a budget allocation, but no one has analysed whether the road in this place has to be as wide as it is and whether it is needed for this or for another purpose at all. To the question of whether the criteria for funding can change, I answer: they can only become fairer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U21	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you very much for a very thorough presentation and for all the work that has been done. But here's my question. In the early years of the land reform, a number of local roads were measured according to the law of that time in the number of private countries, and later the municipalities signed public use contracts for the use of these road sections. In order to improve ownership of public roads, these sections of the road should be re-measured from private land, but it is known to require a lot of money and time. Do you think it is possible for the state to support ownership arrangements for local roads from its budget in order to avoid possible long coordination chains in the future when you are being repaired or new detailed plans are being put in place?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U22	Thank you for your question. We must first analyse how convenient it is to buy tea from the owners. After all, a large number of public use contracts have been concluded. I'm not standing on the remote as a government representative right now. I have not analysed whether there should be such separate support. Personally, I believe that any separate subsidies are not correct. However, this problem should be seen as part of the funding of road management. But it is up to the municipality to decide whether it considers it necessary to enter into a purchase-selling contract with the owner for the money available, or to maintain or design you for it. It should be a municipal choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U23	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U24	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! It is very gratifying that you have brought this hall to discuss such an important topic as the maintenance of local roads. Does your committee also intend to analyse the road map for national roads for the years 2014 to 2020 and then discuss it more widely? It is known that very many municipalities have not coordinated this. My country, Viljandi, is at the end of the line with its roads, but only 5.1 kilometres of reconstruction works are planned for 2015. But before we reach the local roads, we need to travel a large number of miles on state roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U25	Thank you for your question. We in our committee have only been familiar with this plan. We've been briefed so we can know what we're planning. The Commission has not taken part in the process of drawing up a road map and has not put forward its proposals or opinions on it. This is the authority of the government, however, and apparently Viljandi County must turn to the government if you have any disagreements. The Commission has not addressed the issue of the national road map.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U26	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U27	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Did you discuss the use of nail tires during this work? I mean, the roads are falling apart because they're being used.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U28	No, we have not dealt with the use of studded tyres separately. Clearly, they play a role in wearing the road, as do the weather with its cold cycles. However, the use of rear tyres is justified as it reduces the risk to health and life. If this issue is ever to be addressed more seriously in neighbouring countries, then we will also have to make decisions. With regard to today's subject, the issue of stud tyres has not been addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U29	Good waitress, thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. Thank you very much for your work. No further questions. I now ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts of the Riigikogu to speak at the Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U30	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, there is a joint presentation by the government to discuss this important issue. I will start by reminding you what the principles of road maintenance are under the laws in force. According to the Local Government Organisation Act, the maintenance of roads and streets is the responsibility of municipalities. This is an important and substantive task for local life organisers. It is the duty of the state to maintain state roads. The legislator has provided that local authorities must keep local roads in order and also finance this work. The formula for calculating the equalisation fund for municipalities provided for in the State Budget Act takes into account the resources necessary for the maintenance of municipal roads. The municipality decides on the priorities of its own budget and uses its own funds in the best way possible in view of the interests of local residents, both the income from income tax and the compensatory fund's allocation, the ad hoc premiums for road maintenance, own income and loans. As roads are an important part of the transport infrastructure, it is natural that the owner of the road, who is a rural municipality or a city for local roads, is the state in the case of state roads, does everything to ensure that they are in order. The State shall, where possible, provide for ad hoc additional support for local roads in the budget. Its volume has been between zero and 15% of the amount allocated to roads since 1999 in the period of validity of the Road Act. The funds allocated from the state budget for the additional storage of local roads should be taken as an addition to the local governments' basic income. The share of additional public funding in municipal road maintenance costs has also varied, for example by 18% in 2006 and 20% in 2010. Thus, in the lion's section, municipalities pay for the maintenance of local roads themselves, as required by the law. With regard to state support, it should always be greater. It is not a question of the lack of the will of the state or the ministry to allocate money for local roads; it is a question of the possibilities of our state budget. Additional allocations can be made for the current road financing model primarily at the expense of state roads. However, national roads are not particularly concerned with side roads on average in a better way than comparable local government roads. In addition to the length of roads, the intensity of traffic, which according to the Stratum study is higher on national roads, must certainly be taken into account. Later, I will also bring some relevant figures. Now the comments on the proposals of the Special Committee on National Budget Control report. Firstly, the report makes the following proposals to complete the national road register: as soon as possible, to carry out the inventory of local government roads on a uniform basis and to make the financing of inventory equally borne by the state and local authorities. On top of these proposals, I note that the National Road Register was established in due course with a view to a single public road network database. This is necessary for road maintenance planning and the register will benefit both the public and all road maintenance organisers, such as the Road Administration and local authorities. We fully support the need for inventory to be carried out. The National Audit Office has concluded in one of its audits that it should be the responsibility of the state to ensure that the data are entered in the register. I daresay so. The State cannot enter data on the assets belonging to the other owner unless the owner himself has a proper overview. As regards financing, the Ministry of Economic Affairs takes the view that the implementation of the inventory project should be supported from the state budget at the expense of the amounts earmarked for the road maintenance of local authorities. We are prepared to do so in accordance with the proposal of the Estonian Association of Rural Governments. At the same time, the Association of Estonian Cities takes a slightly different view. I hope that an agreement will still be reached, and then inventory can be carried out at a good level. In the course of the inventory process, it is specified which information in the road register is necessary to organise the storage of local roads on a uniform basis with national roads. The inventory will certainly also provide a more accurate overview of how much money local authorities would need to maintain roads. Let us admit that the discussion that we have had so far, in which it is desirable for municipalities to receive additional support from the excise duty on motor fuel for road storage, has largely been based on emotional considerations. We need a better methodology to finance all of you fairly, taking into account all the parameters that the state and local authorities own. The second block of proposals in the report concerns the road plans of local authorities and the State Transport Development Plan 2014 to 2020. The report notes that only 60% of municipalities plan their road maintenance and repair activities so that they are also known by the wider public. Two proposals have been made in this regard. Firstly, it is recommended that local governments plan to keep track in such a way that it is known to the public. Secondly, it is proposed that the National Transport Development Plan 2014 to 20.20, which has also been submitted to the Riigikogu for approval, is intended for the repair, construction and maintenance of roads. The Government agrees with the report's recommendation that road safety should be planned and arranged in such a way as to be understandable to the public. In fact, how could it be different? If it didn't make sense, it wouldn't work. In no other way should the task of organising local life take place so important. Road maintenance planning depends on the condition of the road and whether the correct repair threshold applies. This cannot be a one-year action. In addition, people have the right to know the longer view of the development of urban and rural municipality roads, as well as the information on state roads contained in the State Road Saving Plan 2014 It has been argued that if public funding is vague, local authorities cannot plan road maintenance longer. I dare argue with that, as I said. After all, in most cases, local governments cover road maintenance costs from their income base and it is possible to plan this activity in advance. Fluctuations in the local government's own income as well as in the amount of additional money received from the state must be taken into account by adjusting the road maintenance plan for a given year. Some jobs can be postponed, but the plan itself should be in place. As regards the proposal that funds for road repair, construction and maintenance should be provided for in the National Transport Development Plan 2014 It follows that the transport development plan does not impose any restrictions on local authorities in the use of road savings for the maintenance, construction and repair of roads. At the same time, it is worth considering, perhaps in the future it will be wise to switch to project-based grants, of course in cooperation with local government associations. If the associations of local governments have a more effective methodology for allocating money from the state budget for the storage of local roads, then we are certainly prepared to consider these solutions. The third block of proposals concerns the supervision of the organisation of road maintenance in municipalities. The report makes two proposals: firstly, to improve national supervision of compliance with the condition requirements of all roads, and secondly, to improve regional cooperation, given the lack of road maintenance specialists in local authorities. In 2013, the Public Road Administration set up a separate monitoring department whose role is to organise and monitor compliance with local road condition requirements. This supervision has been carried out by one employee and two employees of the Road Administration in the Northern and Southern regions since the beginning of the year, and in August an official for monitoring local roads in the Western region began working. From the beginning of next year, an official in the Eastern region will also do this work. These people also carry out tasks related to other procedures. Thus, the Road Administration has started to monitor the state of the roads of local authorities more systematically and this is intended to be further enhanced. However, supervision only indirectly affects the allocation of funds from the local government budget for road maintenance and the recruitment of specialists needed for road maintenance. National supervision may lead to the closure of a non-compliant public road, but it is certainly not a good solution, but an extreme emergency measure. Based on the experience gained so far, the Road Administration considers the fact that local governments do not have specialists or are overburdened in this area to be a major problem. Small local governments, this is not a reproach for them, but an objective inevitability just cannot hire smart road engineers and other construction specialists on their own. In most municipalities, one official simultaneously carries out all kinds of work in different areas of construction: building houses, road construction, bridge construction, water supply, sewerage, communications, electricity. It is estimated that this really is a subjective assessment of the four-fifths of municipalities are missing a certified tea specialist. Therefore, it may not be ensured that road maintenance work is carried out in the right time and order and may have an impact on the safety and use of the facilities. In order to solve this problem, we certainly support cooperation between municipalities. One could hire qualified specialists jointly to several municipalities or local government associations. We certainly support the fact that the specialists of the Road Administration advise the municipalities as much as possible in addition to the main work of the Road Administration. The Road Administration has helped to repair some very poor or even dangerous facilities due to non-maintenance. An example is Jõhvi viaduct and Narva bridge. In conclusion, it is therefore necessary for municipalities to cooperate regionally with each other and also to use the assistance of the Road Administration. The fourth block of proposals concerns the financing model. With regard to the model of road financing, the report proposes that, where possible, the amounts allocated to local governments' road maintenance, to reflect the local authorities' road storage resources in the transport development plan, to analyse the whole road entity and to develop a financing model that takes into account the financial needs of the roads throughout the country, either as state budget support or as part of the local government's revenue base. As I pointed out in the introduction to my presentation, since its adoption in 1993, the Law on the Organisation of Local Government has stipulated that maintaining the roads and streets of the municipality is the responsibility of the local government. With the current road financing model, additional national budget allocations can come at the expense of state roads; unfortunately, our national roads, especially sideways, are not in any better order than comparable local authorities. Thus, transferring money from one public road network to another would in no way improve the state of the Estonian road network as a whole. For this reason, the granting of additional support to the municipalities for road maintenance has depended on the possibilities of the state budget, on the commitments made with regard to state roads. Although the number of roads in municipalities is higher than the number of state roads, according to study 'Autopark transit in Estonia 2012', the engineering agency Stratum distributes transit between state roads and other roads in relation to 90:10. So that's the frequency of traffic. If you add all roads, except the streets of Tallinn, with a mileage of about 22%, we can see that the roads of local governments will fall by about 20% of the entire road network. If the State were to finance all the functions of the municipalities with state support, this must also be accompanied by direct State responsibility, setting out precisely how and where the money should and should not be spent. This would be contrary to the principle of autonomy of local authorities and would remove the responsibility of local authorities for carrying out their tasks. Until the municipal roads have been inventoryed and there is no uniform overview of the condition and load capacity of municipal roads and bridges, the municipalities themselves will not be able to make transparent investment and financing decisions; in such circumstances, the state would not be able to decide on the need to finance roads. It is certainly necessary to analyse the entire entity of roads in the process of inventorying and to develop a financing model that takes into account the financial needs of all roads, either as state budget support or as part of the local government's revenue base. As regards the proposal to reflect the financing of local roads in the national budget strategy and the transport development plan, this proposal has come true. Both the financial plan of the state's budget strategy and the road plan for 2014 to 2020 refer to 10% of the fuel excise duty received by the state as an additional subsidy for municipal road maintenance. The transport development plan also takes this into account in substance, as the road management plan is one of the implementation plans of the transport development plan. These were my comments on this report. Once again, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the special committee on budgetary control for raising the issue that is absolutely necessary. Hopefully, this will help us to find better solutions for the longer term, both for the management of local government roads and for the management of the national road network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U31	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. If any person buys fuel, then the price includes excise duties on fuel. 75% of the excise duty is intended to be used for the construction and repair of roads. Some part of this money is decided by the government how much can and should be given to local governments. Local authorities are always asking for this section to be increased. They're told there's no money. At the same time, 75% of the fuel excise duty, which should go for road repair, is used for this purpose by two thirds. This means that not 25% of the excise duty on fuel passes past the repair, but 50%. How do you comment on this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U33	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U34	75% of fuel excise is the calculated rate, we all know that. Money is not known to have a specific sign. In fulfilling the requirements of this law, the government calculates all the amounts of different sources that the state allocates for road maintenance, maintenance and development. I think it's reasonable. That would be a short answer. What proportion between municipalities and the state? Once again, the government currently offers this 10% fuel excise duty. There have been fewer percentages and there have been more. Of course, the financial amount of 10% depends on the receipt of the excise duty. There have been significant fluctuations in this regard, in many ways due to our ability to deal with tax fraud. We are now forecasting that excise duties on fuel will be more or less the same in three or four years next year as this year. At the same time, it is not impossible to develop more positively if more excise duties are collected and if we are able to reduce the share of the secret market. Then, of course, the percentage for municipalities will also rise.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Local authorities have very specific problems with roads, either way. I would like to give an example of Narva. As we all know, Narva has an international transport corridor east to west and west to east. In the city, it grabs about ten streets, and there is a problem with how to manage this network. There is no money left, depreciation has accelerated, because powerful trucks and buses represent a heavy burden on the streets. This is a great pain in the city, causing differences of opinion between the government and the government of the Republic. How do you think the problem should be solved if there are routes of international importance on the territory of the municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U36	We've had a lot of experience in the last five years. The state has supported the implementation of large investment projects in Tartu, Jõhvi and Tallinn with significant amounts. In accordance with established rules, this requires co-financing by the owner. That's one. Narva has been relatively passive in this respect, hopefully more active in the new funding period. But these have been significant sums that have been allocated in Tartu, Jõhvi and Tallinn to carry out projects. Secondly, this is probably not appropriate for very large investments, but last year we gave local authorities the opportunity to apply to the government for road money on a project basis. Above all, we have seen opportunities here for county centres, medium-sized towns and towns with a disproportionate number of transit traffic. We intend to continue this. Even now, municipalities have the opportunity to submit applications, and we have specified the conditions so that it is more understandable. I hope it works. In the last year, I have received positive feedback from Põltsamaa, Paide, Haapsalu and Sillamäe. In total, there were probably seven municipalities that received project-based support to make larger investments. Thirdly, the government has submitted a draft building code to the Riigikogu, which also contains a road law. It's for consideration. If there are still specific large projects, the law would also allow local governments to include in the road management plan roads in which the state invests in one way or another, but this requires agreements with local governments. This is an additional opportunity, but it is first the legislator to discuss. There have already been such cases, such as repairing the Narva Bridge and some more. But this talk, which generally sounds everywhere, actually suggests that local governments do not want to be local governments. That's why I started my presentation from the current law, that municipalities like the autonomy of local governments very much, and I like it too. After all, it is an age-old issue that the share of income tax that goes to them is too small in the settlement of the municipal income base. Of course it's small! Whoever doesn't have a small one, the country does! You just accepted the state budget. We live in limited resources. I do not think that we should put road maintenance ahead of all other municipal functions, such as education and social policy. This should still be discussed in the context of the revenue base. It is claimed that the revenue base agreements concluded in the 1990s and subsequently supplemented by the State and the municipality have caused such a system error, as if you could no longer be managed. But I repeat: as we approach the problem from the point of view of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and compare the share of state roads and roads belonging to local governments, the state has the same concern as its own roads. I do not think it makes any sense for us to try to reduce the autonomy of local governments by solving the road problem, as the proposals always sound. One trend is that municipalities are trying to give you back to the state. This can be discussed, but in this case we should analyse this proposal systematically. We give the municipality's way back to the state, we give schools back to the state, we give kindergartens back to the state, what is left to the municipalities? Tallinn Television?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U37	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As we know, our country's development strategy states that it is necessary to ensure that the basic needs of people are met and that the regions remain competitive. I hope that's what the Government of the Republic is about. In the new financial period of the European Union 2014-2020, high-speed connections are among the preferences. Fast connections are not an issue in this Chamber today, but I suggest you, Minister, look at the map of Estonia. The southern region is covered by relatively sparsely fast connections. The other side of the question is the opportunity for our people to move on the road. Are there any positive messages about improving local roads in the new funding period? If not, what are the relevant arguments, if yes, what are the arguments in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U39	If you think very narrowly about the structural instruments of the European Union, because local roads affect the competitiveness of a particular region and of the entire country as a whole, there is certainly a positive message there. The opportunities open to both the state and different regions. It is clear that, when it comes to EU structural funds, the European trend is to focus more on the main challenges of the economy. Given the picture of the global economy, competitiveness must not be lost and the productivity of companies and the productivity of people must be boosted. That is the main objective, and I think it is very right to focus on this when we discuss different strategies in the government and here in the Riigikogu the determination of these amounts. At the same time, when we think about the next six or seven years, we have other ways of getting more money, such as better taxes. We can use Estonian taxpayers' money to solve development problems in the regions. I do not want to comment on specific measures now, but as far as the road network is concerned, we certainly want to achieve a better balance between the main Estonian highways, the regional reference routes and the local roads. With regard to national routes, we have more or less fixed a four-year catalogue of options in the road management plan. In doing so, we consider that prices may change downwards or upwards, and excise duties are also somewhat difficult to predict. So the plans are done with precision plus or minus 10 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U40	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U41	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, there have been better years of funding local roads than at least 15% of excise duties on fuel have gone to municipalities. You said that everything depends on the possibilities of the state budget and that local roads can be financed more by means of state roads. I understand that this is a matter of prioritisation. Unfortunately, some of the objects built on the state highway have raised many questions, such as Mäo bypass, Jõhvi traffic junction, Koidula border station, etc. Do you think that every euro invested in roads has been spent to achieve a reasonable solution, or has there been a clear release?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U42	That was a general question. In the case of large public investments, and I expect that even in local governments, there will still be in-depth cost-benefit analysis on the basis of internationally accepted methodologies, also taking into account the socio-economic implications. Road investments are not made on the basis of the reality of the moment; they are carried out with a 20 to 30-year perspective. I am thinking of investments, not any level of repair of existing roads. The same applies to the Cross of the Mountain. When I was driving there, I was terrified that the limestone wall was made there. The cross of the mountain was probably built before 2007, so when I became Minister for Economic Affairs, big decisions had already been made. If you leave this limestone noise wall aside and look at the plans of the Mäo region, I believe that if these plans come true, the cross of the Mountain will be small. Now the question is whether they will materialise. This is due to a large number of joint projects by businesses and municipalities. They concern logistics centres, the so-called mini-Estonia project, the single Baltic motto centre, investment by four or five industrial companies. All of this is meant for the Highlands. Some projects were slowed down due to the economic crisis, but when they materialise, Mäo's cross is small in its present form. I also asked the road builders and subscribers, "Hey, guys, why do you put a limestone in that noise wall, it's getting in the eyes of a lot of people?" But the people of Paide, the local authorities who co-ordinated projects, demanded or asked for them. That Paide is a city of limestone and, Mr. Apple Tree, couldn't there be anything aesthetic that looks the eyes of car drivers? We are going through the Estonian limestone capital, it is a centuries-old tradition, and remember that there is still aesthetics in the construction of tea. I shut up about it. I think if Paide is a limestone town and the municipalities asked for limestone to be used along the state road to build a noise wall, so be it. We in the Riigikogu ourselves set the rule in public procurement that 1% of the cost of an object is spent on works of art. Similarly, we might ask whether we need to do anything more important than buy artwork in new beautiful buildings. I think that this is a sensible proposal to respect Estonian art; people must show art.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U43	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, It is true that local authorities have obligations under the law. The state is also obliged to keep state roads in order, but both fulfil their obligations as far as possible and often as priorities are concerned. My question is as follows. Will the planned changes in the school network of local governments and counties, the mobility between centres of attraction, the development plans of public transport and entrepreneurship be taken into account in the organisation of state roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U45	There are very positive examples that are taken into account. At the same time, regions are known all over Estonia, where this has not been taken into account very much. These aspects are taken into account in the construction of new roads and certainly also in the case of overhauls. And when it's been snowy winters, we've been trying to make a smart move on the snow. The Road Administration, in cooperation with local authorities, requires that snow be pushed away primarily on roads where school buses or any means of transport associated with a larger employer are carried out. People have to get to work even when there's a heavy snowfall. However, there are certainly examples that could be done better.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U46	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U47	Good manager! Good minister! First of all, on behalf of everyone in the Chamber, I would like to thank for the fact that what was agreed in 2011 in the support group for local governments and regional policy, that the road money from excise duty, which goes to municipalities, will increase from 5% to 10%, has been completed in two years and is 10% in the state budget. Do you think it's possible next spring, when the state budget is going to be made, that this amount will be close to 15%?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U48	Minister, thank you for your presentation and your answers. There's more questions, but you see, time's up. Let's keep going. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Märt Molli, Counsellor of the Estonian Association of Rural Governments!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U49	The current situation is what it is. At the same time, I referred to the transport development plan and the national budget strategy. We have planned more or less the use of all the excise duty received today. In my opinion, the percentage is not important, it is important how much excise duty will be collected, how much the actual amount will come. It is also important to have a price index for road construction and repair, in other words, how many works municipalities can order for a certain amount of money. We in the government look at all these components as a whole. We're not trying to cling to that percentage at all costs. I hope that we can do the inventory of roads, that is very important. Perhaps there will be a more accurate picture, and next year we will be able to hold a degree in mapping the needs of a more expert discussion with the associations of local governments. I repeat, there are certain inconsistencies between rural governments and cities, within cities and also between larger cities. In some parts of the world, we think that the revenue base is sufficient to keep our roads in order, apart from the big investments. Let us not forget that the same is true for local governments. Jaan Õunapuu asked about the next funding period for the European Union and the country's transport development plan. These amounts are still aimed at implementing the road projects of the larger municipalities. How do we resolve these issues and how much are the local authorities prepared to invest heavily in roads? This is about the biggest cities of Tallinn, Tartu, Narva. These are all open questions. In addition to this money, a certain percentage of the excise duty will then be allocated. And support can also be very much higher if municipalities submit project-based investment applications to the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U50	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The local governments and the national associations representing them are very pleased that, on the proposal of the special committee on the control of the state budget of the Riigikogu, the maintenance of local roads is an important national issue today. As the problem has been up for a very long time, I will try to introduce you to the local authorities' views on local road safety issues. I'll start with the country's development papers. We do not believe that the treatment of local roads in the country's transport development plan, presented to you by the country's "Estonia 2030+" guidelines and objectives, will support. It acknowledges, however, that mobility opportunities must be available to all people and that due to Estonia's disparateness, the role of road transport plays a key role in ensuring national mobility. Road transport is also indispensable for domestic freight transport and thus for business and competitiveness. It is also recognised that the state of local roads is estimated to be poor both in rural municipalities and cities. However, the need to improve the condition of local roads is not addressed. It refers only to the fact that this is the responsibility of the local government and recommends planning state support for local governments only for investments, and so far. There's no way we can agree to that. It is unclear how mobility opportunities can be guaranteed for all when the poor condition of local roads makes access to state roads increasingly difficult. In order to characterise state and local roads, it is important to know the links between them. As of 1 January 2013, the roads belonging to the State were 16443 kilometres, the local roads and streets together with bicycle routes and private roads for public use under contract were 23428 kilometres. So there are 1.4 times more local roads than national roads. The length of state roads is 70.2% of the length of local roads. At the same time, national roads are much wider: there are just over 115 million square meters of state roads, local roads and streets just over 90 million square meters. The latter thus accounts for 78.3% of the area of national roads. On the basis of the 2011 Road Administration's data, we did one piece of work and were able to spend EUR 211.1 million, or EUR 1.81 per square metre, on national roads in 2011. Local authorities managed to place 72.9 million euros in road maintenance, together with European Union money. This is EUR 0.76 per square metre, or 2.4 times less than the country could do. Most of this money, i.e. 50.1 million, was taken at the expense of local government spending in other areas. With this money, the number of kindergarten places could have been significantly increased, the pay of education and cultural workers could have been increased, and many other problems could have been solved. In fact, in 2011 local authorities would have been able to use only EUR 22.8 million of the money allocated from the state for road maintenance purposes. This would, in principle, have done 9.2 times less than the state's national roads, while the need for local roads and streets would have been much greater. If municipalities were to use only the relevant amounts allocated from the state budget, they would amount to 10,8% of the funds spent on national routes, although local roads account for 78,3% of the total area of state roads. Although this is only a calculated example, which is not very precise due to the lack of public data and the different nature of public and local roads, it still reflects the current funding of road maintenance and current shares. According to our calculations, based on the 2011 Yearbook data of the Road Administration, local authorities would need at least EUR 104.5 million for local roads and EUR 119,9 million for winter and summer maintenance. According to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, keeping local roads is the responsibility of local authorities and should be financed from the local budget as a whole. The state would only help local authorities to cover road maintenance costs in the event of special interest, but according to the Ministry's latest wishes and transport development plan, this would be done only to support investments related to the overhaul and reconstruction of roads. Is that the right principle? Let's go back a little bit. The local government system was established by the Law on the Foundations of Local Government adopted in November 1989. According to this, the local authorities were not responsible for the repair and construction of local roads. Paragraph 7 (2) (6) of the Act refers to the organisation of the use of local resources and infrastructure. The term "organisation" has so far not received a generally acceptable content and, in general, it does mean setting conditions for use and allowing for use. At the same time, the income of local governments' budgets, the so-called municipal income base at the time, was shaped by the law on the foundations and the functions of local governments laid down in other laws. More specifically, it was laid down in tax laws and the Tax Administration Act. In December 1991, two years after the adoption of the Local Government Foundation Act, when the local government's income base had already been designed, the Road Act was adopted, according to which roads were divided so that some roads were rural roads. The city streets were not covered by the law. According to the same law, the municipality had to refrain from financing the municipalities. However, neither the law nor any other law mentioned the proceeds of local governments which would have allowed them to fulfil their obligation to maintain municipal roads. Since, in practice, there were no roads yet, why didn't I talk a little later, there was no need at the time to supplement their revenues in order to carry out this task. Therefore, the requirement of the law on financing was not appropriate at that time. Does anyone in this hall believe that the state was so rich and benevolent that it allocated money to the municipal revenues to maintain roads that they did not yet have? I don't believe that, and neither do you. I must also point out that, at the time, the local budgets were not intended to cover the costs of the depreciation of other infrastructure. The reason is that all the investments were made so far from the state budget and the state had little money. This is still the case, and the disputes with the Ministry of Finance have still not been resolved in a positive way. According to the Local Government Foundation Act, property could only be acquired or transferred to the local government. In the 1990s, towns and rural municipalities, which acquired the status of a municipality, could take over the green areas, streets, cemeteries and other property that they managed. They also received a proportional share of utilities' money, but only for day-to-day care and in accordance with the standards of the day. The costs of overhaul and reconstruction were also borne by these institutions from the state budget. The taking over of roads from agricultural holdings could only start after the agricultural reform started in March 1992 after the agricultural reform law had been adopted. So it was later when the road law was passed. In reality, the delivery of roads lasted for several years, and it had not completely ended even in 1997. As an aside, national statistics only reflect local roads and streets from the beginning of the 2000s. Once again, how could a central government have assigned a tax base to local governments to keep money on the road when not even the existence of roads was known? In June 1993, the Local Government Organisation Act was adopted, which established a one-tier municipality, distributed tasks from the other level and from the public authorities, and for the first time laid down in Paragraph 6 (1) of the Local Government's task the organisation of maintenance of municipal roads and city streets. The Minister here claimed that the municipality's task was to maintain the municipal roads and city streets. But he forgets one word: arrangements. I would like to draw attention once again to the concept of'restructuring'. At this very point in the same law there is also an obligation to organise transport within the rural municipality or the city. After all, we do not assume that the organisation in this case means that the local authority pays the public transport costs. Rather, it still finds carriers and concludes contracts with them, i.e. it organises this area. However, if the municipality makes concessions for and covers the cost of some population groups, it is to grant incentives and cover the cost of the benefits, not to organise transport. Nor did the Local Government Organisation Act provide for the collection of funds to cover the costs incurred in carrying out these tasks. As the list of transfers carried out by local authorities changed, it was decided to determine the proceeds with amendments to the Tax Administration Act and other tax laws, as well as the municipal and urban budgets and the State Budget Relationship Act. In order to shape the income of local governments, the Government of the Republic set up a working group led by Heido Vitsur. On the basis of the proposals made by this working group, the government decided how much of personal income tax, land tax and other sources would be received by local authorities so that they could carry out the tasks assigned to them by law. This was confirmed by the Riigikogu by amending the relevant laws. This process was also aggravated by the lack of State funds, which did not involve the planned amounts in the municipal revenues to cover the costs of the depreciation of the infrastructure. The money could also not be allocated for road maintenance, as local authorities did not yet have roads in 1993. The situation was then that there was little money to maintain the streets, and the municipalities began to take over roads from the collective farms and the Soviets, which were not planned to be maintained in their revenues. Thus, as early as 1994, national self-government associations began to apply for money for road maintenance in negotiations with the Government of the Republic on local budgets. In the first years, it was allocated to all economic costs, as road maintenance was not specifically addressed in the budget breakdown. An overview of the negotiations is available in the annex to the report of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. As the state of local roads became increasingly worrying, there was no regulation on urban streets at all and the current road law no longer met the needs, a Road Act was adopted in February 1999. It already regulated the entire national network of roads, i.e. both national roads and local roads. The Minister of Road Raivo Vare spoke in the Riigikogu of the draft law about the problems that had arisen since the current law was in force and how they would be resolved. Basically, it was seen as such, I would point out: 'The compactness of Estonian territory and road network means that the draft deals with state, local and private roads and streets as a single whole whose storage and, as far as possible, development costs would come from a single source. As a result of the above, the basis for funding in the draft Road Act was designed so that the funding of road maintenance would be telecommunications capital. To this end, the operating costs of Estonian roads and streets must be specified annually per kilometre per year, the annual need for financing operating costs must be calculated for state roads, urban streets and roads, local roads, public and private roads. " At the same time, the ministry felt that money was still not enough. It was therefore planned to introduce a national motor vehicle tax. Raivo Vare claimed in the Riigikogu that the Ministry felt that this tax should be national, but should only be used for the preservation of local roads. I would remind you that at the same time motor vehicle tax was applied as a local tax, which had, however, been applied by only a few local authorities. In the Riigikogu, cardinal changes were made in several readings of the Act. The national motor vehicle tax was not introduced, the road capital was not formed and it was decided that all the money needed to maintain the road would come from the state budget. Paragraph 16 (3) of the Act provides that the distribution of money for the storage of state roads and for the storage of local roads and streets is to be determined for each financial year in the state budget. In our view, the message is very clear: money for local roads is allocated from the state budget, on the one hand also because the local roads could not be stored in local budgets in the past because the municipalities did not own roads. To the contrary, only MKM and the Minister for Regional Affairs claim otherwise. In their opinion, by the fact that § 6 of the Local Government Organisation Act refers to the organisation of road maintenance, the money is also available for this purpose. I explained earlier that it wasn't true. In fact, the system of road maintenance scheme introduced by the law did not work in practice for municipalities. It worked in some ways for only a few years and in 2005 the municipalities' obligation to draw up road-saving plans was abolished by amendments to the Road Act. At present, however, a large number of local authorities are drawing up their own road plan or are planning road maintenance in a special part of their development plan or budget strategy. At the same time, the first stage of this legislative amendment brought to a close the dispute, which was very well concluded for us, about the need for the Road Act to reflect the size of the amounts planned for the storage of local roads. Without it, it is impossible to plan and maintain the continuity of local roads in the long term. Paragraph 16 (3) of the Road Act was supplemented in such a way that at least 5% of the amount earmarked for road maintenance in the state budget is allocated to investments in local roads. Henn Pärn, member of the Economic Commission at the time, noted that this was one of the most important points of this law, as it provides a basis for the consistent maintenance of local roads. Somewhere, however, the word 'investment' had appeared in this paragraph. This is very strange because the investment still lacks a precise definition of law. The Encyclopedia explains that the investment is a long-term capital injection for the benefit. This means an increase in the cost of assets due to the improvement of the quality of the assets or the creation of new assets. In fact, the content of this concept is generally the same as that of road maintenance: according to the wording of the law, it is a road-use activity consisting of road design, road design, construction, repair, maintenance, road management, maintenance work in the protection zone and other activities related to road management. It is therefore an improvement in the quality of the assets. As a result of this investment word, different concepts arose at the time and the National Audit Office even accused the municipalities of improper use of the state budget allocation. They considered that investment meant only the reconstruction of existing infrastructure or the creation of new assets. In 2006, we took a further step towards improving the financing of local road savings by amending the Road Act. When paragraph 16 (3) was amended, the amounts allocated to local road storage were increased to 10% of the resources earmarked for road maintenance in the state budget. This illogical word for "investment" was also excluded. After the amendment of the 2006 Act, local governments had already hoped that the volume of funds allocated to the storage of local roads would continue to increase and eventually account for 30% of the amount allocated to road maintenance in the state budget. This is the volume that municipalities have still requested, as it should broadly cover the cost of road maintenance on local roads and streets. Unfortunately, that was not the case. The economic downturn came to an end and the additional budget of the State for 2009 was amended in the course of the amendment of the law relating to it and the wording of § 16 (3) was restored as it stood until 2004: the distribution of money for the storage of state roads and local roads are determined for each financial year in the state budget. However, no change was made to the fact that money is allocated to the storage of local roads in the state budget for each financial year. This is also the case today, although the revenue from the state budget reached pre-crisis levels by the end of 2011, but the revenue from local governments, especially not all local governments, apparently will not reach the same level by the end of 2014. Local authorities are currently in a state of compulsion. You cannot be left unattended, because there is no other way of guaranteeing mobility for residents and access to raw materials or the removal of finished products for businesses. In this way, road maintenance works are carried out at the expense of education, youth work, sport, social affairs, etc. in other areas and still in insufficient volume. In this way, other services have also been underfunded and local authorities are accused of being administratively unable. In the case of funding from the current state budget for road maintenance, we can ask the question: if, in the opinion of the public authorities, there are funds available for local road maintenance among the revenues of local authorities, why is the state budget also allocating money to local authorities for road maintenance, and why did this start just after the Road Act was introduced? In other cases, the central government does not even take additional funding for the task of local governments for discussion. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has recently, and also today, referred to the equalisation fund's formula, with which money is intended to be stored on local roads. This statement is unfortunately not true. The so-called 'k' formula of the Equalisation Fund, on the basis of which the revenue/cost difference between the municipalities began to be balanced, was introduced in 2003. Thus, this has nothing to do with the Road Act and the road maintenance issues of the municipalities, since the law was adopted four years earlier. For this model, however, I would like to stress, precisely now, the local road entity is considered to be a criterion for the economic costs of local authorities, because the analysis shows that the road entity is the most correlated with the potential economic costs. However, this model was introduced in 2005, before the criterion was population density. And how would population density have been related to road maintenance? The introduction of the cost criterion for the economic sector in the formula does not in any way indicate the planning of the facilities for road maintenance. On the one hand, we know that the fine-tuning fund covers the difference between revenue and expenditure, but the cost calculation is based on the estimated average of expenditure in the previous three years. This means that the basis is not the need, but the possibility of how much money the municipality has had to spend. The difference, not the difference between necessity and what was actually spent, will be covered. On the one hand, the dispute over the allocation of road resources seems logical, because the memory of the contestants depends on their experience, historical memory, information about time 20 years ago. On the other hand, it seems absurd because half of us don't trust each other. In addition to everything, the government does not even want to look up documents that were the basis for determining the amount of local government revenue and the way in which the funds were allocated to them. I am also thinking of the documents of the 1993 Government Committee, which led to changes in tax laws aimed at reflecting the incomes of local governments, so that it is clear to all of us how the income base of local governments will develop. We have searched for these documents in the State Archives, but there they are not claimed that they have not been submitted by the government. It is very important to have enough information on the existence, status and use of roads in order to ensure fair funding for road management. When a national road register was created, municipalities were given a new obligation: to draw up their own road register. The municipalities, however, did not have much information about their roads, because the documentation concerning you was incomplete; the data could only be obtained through the inventory of roads. However, it was expensive and the obligation to create a road register was not accompanied by additional municipal revenues or the allocation of funds for inventory purposes. Thus, the collection of data on local roads has lingered. To date, however, local authorities have an obligation to transmit the volume of data specified in the 2005 Government Decree No 99 to the national road register, which amended the list and volume of data to be entered into the national road register for local roads. In particular, they were more than the municipalities had initially collected in their register. There was therefore a need to carry out a second inventory of roads for the collection of missing data. The money has not been there, and so it has now become a situation where we do not have enough information about all local roads in the municipalities to reflect all the new data required in the road register. The information available in the road register is likely to contain errors. In Haapsalu, for example, the road register says that the streets are narrower than in Helme municipality. We do not know what covers are on several hundred kilometres of roads, and we do not know the width of nearly 1,000 kilometres of roads. We do not know for sure whether the local gravel roads are still gravel roads or whether they are largely built soil roads during the first period of independence, on which a certain layer of gravel has been transported during the Soviet period. The geology of gravel roads has not been studied and the documentation of these roads is largely missing or incomplete. Even if these data were available in the road register, it would still not be enough, because we also need fresh information on the current state of the roads and the intensity of traffic. It would also be very important to know the load capacity of the various roads and their geology. Unfortunately, we will not be able to collect such information without re-inventing local roads. Without it, however, any analysis of the cost needs of local roads is not sufficiently competent, and that is what I said about our analysis of the need to finance the storage of local roads. The municipal associations proposed that the inventory of local roads be carried out on a centralised basis. This is to ensure, on the one hand, that the information collected at the same time for all roads is comparable, and, on the other hand, that the ordering of such a large amount of work is certainly cheaper than if each municipality were to do so separately. We also had the idea, together with the inventory, of developing an information technology tool, an application that would enable municipalities to reflect all the current road works and allow all the changes that have taken place to be transferred directly to the national road register and also to reflect the road map application. This would make it possible to plan the cost of storing local roads every year, and information would also be available to public authorities involved in road maintenance. In this respect, we negotiated with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and asked to enable these work to be carried out on the basis of the amounts allocated from the state budget for the storage of local roads. For a number of reasons, this proposal did not work. We have proposed a new allocation of funds for these works outside the state budget for the storage of local roads. This is due to the fact that local authorities need to make high costs in order to obtain the information to be provided in the national road register. Unfortunately, this proposal was not supported by the Ministry either. Nor did we reach a common understanding with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications on the possible IT application, its accommodation, development and technical assistance. We also looked at the possible cost of both inventorying and the creation of an IT tool. According to one potential operator, this would take a year and would require approximately EUR 1 million, from the EUR 28 million planned for road maintenance in 2014. The other potential operator did not believe that the existing technology and methodology would allow these works to be carried out within one year and that, in his view, the cost of these works would be significantly higher. At the same time, however, this potential operator has already created an IT application similar to our vision for municipalities and some local authorities use it. This application would only need functional improvement for road maintenance planning, cost accounting and automatic entry of data into the national road register, as well as for the road map application. This solution would be cheaper, simpler and more logical for municipalities, as the issues of accommodation and technical support for the application have already been resolved and are still being paid for using and developing it. We are therefore only halfway to resolving the issue of the road register. The central government has so far not been interested in contributing money to information about local roads. The government claims that this money must be on the so-called income base of the municipalities and that it is the responsibility of the local authorities. At the same time, however, they are interested in obtaining information on local roads and the cost of road maintenance, as they believe that they should have much more information to allocate money from the state budget. We agree with this and think that the parties could reach a compromise on the allocation of funds. Such problems are currently facing the issue of road safety. We believe that they need an urgent solution, because the state of local roads is constantly deteriorating and, with the available resources, local authorities are unable to stop it. We are very much counting on the effectiveness of today's discussion. We would like the debate on this crucial national issue to give participants a broadly identical or at least similar understanding of the real circumstances, both in terms of the funding of road maintenance and in other respects. National self-government associations expect members of the Riigikogu to delve into the content of the problem and to contribute to solving the issues raised today. It is essential to halt the deterioration of local roads and to ensure the adequate quality of the infrastructure so necessary for citizens and businesses. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U51	Good fellows! Let's move on to the questions. Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Good March! At the end of your performance, you said the local roads were constantly deteriorating. That is a statement that I do not want to agree with at all. If you look at ten or five years ago, as a hunter, I dare say that ten years ago I had to go hunting with a jeep, now you can take a regular car, at least in the municipalities of Võrumaa and many others. In my opinion, the problem is that you cannot be repaired at your income base, especially in the cities of the county centres. In the new development plan, as we heard from the Minister, certain measures are already foreseen when cities pass through transit corridors. Do you agree with the Ministry that we should focus on the county centers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U53	To be honest, I don't think we should just focus on the county centers. In my opinion, the focus should be on all local roads, but particular attention should be paid to roads that cross densely populated areas, including county centres. State roads that pass through the city are often local streets or roads within the city's borders, and their funding is the task of the local government, as the Minister claimed, according to the law currently in force. Obviously, it would be useful to analyse the situation from this point of view, whether the routes of state that pass through densely populated areas should be entirely national or end when they enter the city and start again when they leave the city.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U54	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U55	Thank you, Mr President. My dear waitress, above all, I would like to thank you for your very meaningful and interesting speech. Now to the question, I did not get an answer from the Minister. In short, I repeat. 75% of the money from excise duties on fuel should go for road storage and will also be allocated to local authorities. A recent audit by the National Audit Office revealed that only two thirds of this 75%, i.e. 50% of the total excise duty received, will go for road repair and storage, while the remaining 25% will go where unknown. Can you comment on that? And maybe you will also comment on your sentence that the Government of the Republic is not interested in contributing to local government roads to avoid. What could be the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U56	As regards the resources to be allocated from fuel excise duty to road storage, this is linked to a legislative amendment. If initially the law stated that 75% of the fuel excise money would go to roads, then the current wording is that the sum of 75% of the fuel excise duty will be used for the storage of roads. This means that part of the excise duties on fuel will not really be spent directly on road storage, as in addition to excise duties on fuel, the money from the European Union is also allocated to the maintenance of the roads of the country. As regards the argument that the central government is not interested in roads, it is based on the fact that, since 1994, we have not reached a common understanding in negotiations with the government of what actually exists in the income base of local governments, nor on what the tea law provides. We think it is very clear that local roads are financed from the state budget. There is no mention of the grant being granted from the state budget, and there is no law on the responsibility of the local authorities to finance the avoidance of local roads. The Road Act states that local roads are not financed from the state budget every year in accordance with the State Budget Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U57	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U58	Thank you, manager. Dear long-term colleague, I thank you for the very thorough review you have just made in this Chamber. I would remind all of us that in the spring of 2011, the Socats introduced a bill that would have increased the funding of local roads to 15% of fuel excise. The first reading in the hall ended and then the bill was put on the shelf where it stands until today. It is clear that the whole issue is very political. I can assure you that this 15% was certainly possible in 2006 and 2007. But here's what I want to ask you. You've been involved in municipal and state negotiations for many years. Their results have been different. Do you think it would make any sense to have these negotiations in the form they are now in?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U59	Thank you very much for your question. This is not a direct matter for today's item, but it is worth pointing out. This is because these negotiations were also such that this year we were told that the opposite party, i.e. the Government of the Republic Commission, was not entitled to compromise, and we were provided with information the day or two before the deadline for signing the final protocol. In my opinion, there is very little benefit in such negotiations. There is not even a compromise, not to mention their discussion or implementation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U60	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you very much for presenting this background. You have to know that. My question, however, is about further action and direction for the future. In your presentation, as well as in the Minister's report, and in my report, we all stressed the need for the inventory of roads and the creation of a single road register, or road portfolio. You concerned the financing of this work. As the representative of the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, do you agree that this should first be started immediately, that funding should be agreed between the parties and that it should proceed quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U62	The management board of the Association of Estonian Rural Governments has accepted this position and proposed this to the council. This question will also be discussed on May Day. However, I am sure that rural governments agree with this, because the original proposal has come from them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U63	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U64	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, first of all, thank you very much for describing the real life here on the remote. The real situation is exactly what you said, not that everything gets better when you fly flags. Of course, it is nice that our colleague, who had to go hunting in a jeep earlier, now gets there in a passenger car, but the bicycle man has little use for it. You have proposed that inventory be carried out centrally. What was the reason for this negative answer? Were there complaints about lack of money or other reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U65	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U66	Thank you for your question. There were several reasons. Firstly, we had a fundamental agreement between the alliances and with the Ministry that this work would be financed from the 2013 budget. We've already prepared a public procurement. But then, when negotiating with the Ministry of Finance, it became clear that this cannot be done because the money was intended to be used for the storage of local roads and to be used for inventory purposes, there should have been a corresponding comment in the 2013 state budget. The state budget was not thus complemented and therefore all the year was postponed. There were other reasons later. In addition, the alliances themselves developed different concepts. One part of the municipalities was not interested in carrying out the whole inventory process, but only wanted to get a picture of the traffic frequency. As a result, there were difficulties in agreeing on funding. For now, these disagreements have been eliminated, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, I also thank you for this objective review. As you know, international cooperation within the framework of external communication also applies to your associations. We present very many positive examples of different areas in this Chamber from Scandinavian countries or from Latvia and Lithuania. How have they been able to finance the storage of local roads? Is there anything to be taken as an example?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U68	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U69	Thank you for your question. I don't have much information about this because we haven't specifically investigated it. This is what we know about Finland. There are very few local roads in Finland, mainly public roads and private roads. Unlike Estonia, the state also provides much support for improving private roads there, if it is important. I do not dare say the amount of money, but I know that the state budget will also allocate money to clean up private roads, and that local authorities will also be supported, because, to a large extent, urban streets are owned by local authorities. In municipalities, roads are mostly in private hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U70	Thank you, manager. Good waitress, first of all, I would like to thank the local authorities for their frank view of the road issue. But one question for you. It is now clear that next year, municipalities will receive just under 30 million euros in road money from the state budget. How much do the municipalities think this amount should be in the 2015 state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U71	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U72	120 million. But if you take it seriously, I hope that progress will be made, both in this Chamber and in the negotiations with the government, and that there will be a clear direction for more money to be allocated to the storage of local roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U73	Thank you. Listening to your presentation, it seemed that you are legally sharing this matter, you have been dealing with the subject for a long time and certainly at home with all this financial aspects. What bothers me is that we have a very inadequate system of road management and road construction, and in your report I did not find the belief that these things would work out. If there is no register, if there are no plans, then there is no point in giving money. After all, the little money that the state gives you, you spend half as empty as I mean municipalities. Do you agree with this statement that there is no point in giving money if it is done with foolishness, such as fixing holes, but you are not properly repaired?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U74	Thank you for your question. But I cannot agree with that statement in any way. As I said in my report, the money that is currently being allocated from the state budget is still very small compared to the amounts that municipalities put in place at the expense of other sectors. Local authorities have already invested more than 100 million euros in road maintenance in different years. And that money is definitely not going to the wrong place. I can agree with the Minister on the fact that small municipalities do not have mostly competent specialists to assess certain situations, but that local authorities are spending money on the wrong things, certainly not. Local authorities are currently mainly repairing roads where it is hardly possible to move at all. So the money certainly won't go wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U75	Good waitress, thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. I open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu Chair Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I am very pleased that the Special Committee on State Budget Control prepared a report on the organisation of local road storage and decided, according to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, to present this topic as a crucial national issue for discussion in the Riigikogu plenary. I also thank all the waitresses! The presentations were very meaningful. As the former Head of Government, I am taking a very specific approach to this issue. Local roads are pierced, especially due to systematic underfunding. The opponents try to correct this statement by arguing that local governments are not using money properly and that, therefore, the roads of very many municipalities are reminiscent of the battlefield in the spring. The real reason is under-funding, which makes it impossible to keep you running in our climate. I would like to remind you that, while in 2008 the state allocated an additional EUR 40 million of road funding to local authorities, in 2014 this amount has fallen to EUR 28 million. The maintenance of local roads is an important task of the municipality, which is required of the municipality or the city by the Local Government Organisation Act and Tea Act. However, the municipality can only perform this task if the law also provides for funding. The Road Act in force until 1 March 2009 stipulated that at least 10% of the amount earmarked for the financing of road maintenance from the state budget would be allocated to investments in local roads. This provision was amended by the State's 2009 Supplementary Budget and related Law Amendment Act and Article 16 (3) of the Road Act abolished the requirement that at least 10% of the amount earmarked for the financing of road maintenance was allocated to local road investments. Of course, the State took advantage of the opportunity offered by the amendment in relation to the municipalities and allocated less than 10% of the fuel excise duty for local road investments in four consecutive years: in 2010, 4.9% were allocated to the municipalities, 4.8% in 2011 and 6.5% in 2012 and 9.7% in 2013. In 2014, 1.2 million euros less will be allocated to municipalities than in 2013. Between 2010 and 2013, an average of 6,5% of the funds provided for in § 16 of the Road Act has been allocated to local roads from excise duties on fuel. It's abnormally low. We consider that the last winters have been quite snowy, which is why many municipalities have had all this money for winter road maintenance. The 2011 study of the Road Technology Centre showed a long-term cumulative underfunding of 836 million euros for state roads. The cumulative underfunding of local roads and streets is estimated by Professor Priit Willbach and Lecturer Rene Pruunsilla to be around 300 million euros. As a result, the road surfaces of the main Estonian roads are on average 13 years old, the road surfaces of the main roads are 25 years old and the road surfaces of the secondary roads and local roads are already more than 30 years old. It's a clear sign of danger. The existence and quality of road infrastructure are essential both for the provision of traffic opportunities for citizens and for economic operators in order to be able to transport production and raw materials. We've been talking about a local government road plan today. Of course, it is very difficult for local governments to produce such a document and it is even more difficult to carry out the tasks set out there if the annual allocation depends on the moods of the heads of state and there is no system for allocating money. As this situation continues, the situation on our roads will remain as it is today. I ask which additional revenue of the municipality can be used to carry out these tasks. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U77	Three minutes. [[The cavalry.]] Minister, please respect order. Please, waitress, you can continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U78	Can I continue, or is the Minister still interrupting? Local authorities need to be assured that they have a specific allocation for the maintenance of roads for each financial year. I would remind you that in 2009, the share of income tax allocated to local authorities was reduced to 11,4%, which amplified the already declining and declining budget revenues due to the economic downturn. In addition to the reduction in fiscal revenues due to the economic downturn, the cuts in income tax and the compensatory fund in 2009-2012 have reduced local living resources by almost EUR 190 million. Therefore, it is not possible for municipalities to increase the funding for road maintenance from their own revenues. External resources for the storage of local roads have also been delivered in a highly unstable manner and will be significantly reduced next year. While a little more than 30 million euros of external funding has been allocated to municipalities this year, it is expected that 15 million euros will be reallocated in 2014 and only 10 million euros in 2015. In addition, it should be taken into account that the European Union's Structural Funds are intended to reduce the lack of Estonian infrastructure from other European Union infrastructure and not to patch the budget gaps created by the state. I would remind you that 75% of the excise duty on fuel should go to maintain the routes of the state, but according to the last audit by the National Audit Office, only 50% will go to do so. So is the other 50% trying to patch up the state budget holes? The current distribution of road resources between the state and local roads is neither logical nor fair. Finally, I quote from the former Viimsi rural municipality elder Haldo Orava: 'The holes in the streets of Tallinn and other local governments are not the fault, roads and streets of the city of Tallinn and other local governments because the government decided that only 10% of the amount allocated to the local roads and streets would be spent in the state budget for the maintenance of roads. ' So the issue of road funding is not just about the opposition, but about all of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U79	Thank you very much. I beg the speaker, Jüri Morozov! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U80	Madam President! (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you very much for the fact that such an important subject has arrived here today in the Chamber of the Riigikogu! Thank you very much to the author of the report for his very thorough work and, of course, to Mr Molli, who provided adequate information in this Chamber. I believe that this is the basis for future decisions. Of course, the issue of local roads is very important to local authorities, but I would say that this is not the most important thing. There are still much more important issues, such as education, social work, etc., in terms of financial value. However, the country's money for road maintenance is divided, as has already been said several times, as follows: 90% and 10%. The report also raised the question of whether these proportions are fair and correct or whether they should be changed. The National Audit Office, the relevant ministries, the Road Administration and the national representative organisations of local governments have also given their views on all issues of concern. On the basis of the report by the Special Committee, it can be said that the problems in managing local roads have long been known, but they have not been resolved. But roads need maintenance and repair every year. After all, it is clear that if the necessary road maintenance work and investments are not done during the current year, they must still be done in the future, or otherwise the road will become impenetrable, so that perhaps the expression 'possible only in Russia' can be used. I'm sure you've seen pictures of the machines drowning on Russia's bottomless roads. I am also talking about the audit of the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office has informed the Special Committee that nothing has been done since 2010 to take account of the observations made in the report and to combat the shortcomings. Rather, the road situation has deteriorated, suggesting that the problems raised in the audit have not been solved. Problems that hindered communication between the state and local authorities at the time are still an obstacle. That's what we've heard from reports. There is a lack of data from the road register and the collected data does not allow local roads to be characterised. The position that there is no money is shared by both the state and local authorities, while it is not known how much money should be put on local roads to improve their status. There is no uniform methodological understanding of how to determine the need for money, so a fair financing model is still open to debate. Deficiencies in supervision are also mentioned. The Road Administration, expressing its position, states that many local authorities lack the capacity to draw up a road plan. The ability of many municipalities to organise road management is also insufficient and the existence of a road management plan does not solve this problem in itself. It does not make sense for the State to require a road safety plan if there are insufficient resources to meet the requirements laid down in it. The National Audit Office has said that they have not observed the link during the audit that the road situation would be better in the local government, where there is a road plan. The problem is that there are few resources available to maintain the road. Mr Moll pointed out here today that the estimated financial needs were EUR 120 million. After all, this is more than four times larger than the 2014 State allocation. It can be seen that in 2006-2013. The funding of local roads has been rather volatile in 2008: for example, EUR 40 million was allocated in 2008 and EUR 11 million in the following year. Here's what to think about and what to fix. There is certainly a consensus on the clarification of the existence of roads, and the need for a road register is also recognised. Of course, some disagreements are caused by the financing of the so-called assembly of this register, but I think this is a problem to be solved. In addition to the four main points set out in the report, I will put forward a fifth point, which may not be reflected in this report for certain reasons. This is the real situation of local roads. For people who move on these roads day by day and use them daily to work, such as postmen, to get to the needs of an ambulance or rescue car, children to go to school and kindergarten, farmers and foresters to take care of their business, etc., ending up with tourists who visit these areas, discussions on how to organise road maintenance and whether a road register and a road safety plan are necessary will remain abstract. The everyday reality of these people is that they sit in a snow den in the winter, or that the school bus is stuck in an impenetrable swamp in the spring, or that someone at home is waiting hopelessly for help from the Rescue Board or the ambulance. In recent snowy winters, the whole of the country's allocation, as well as the municipality's allocation, was mainly used for winter care. This means that there were no resources available for summer road maintenance, but there is no need to talk about investments. As one parish official tends to say, "Friends, this summer you can't get a load of dirt to fill holes in any parish road. " This is reality. In summary, it has to be said that there seems to be no problem with the maintenance and investment of state roads. Only the Padaoru case is remembered for years, but it can rather be classified as an emergency situation. Looking at the share of public roads and local roads in the whole road network and comparing it with funding, it seems that new, spectacular road constructions, with no cars moving later on, have, to put it mildly, been an exaggeration. What can be done? It is necessary to identify and organise the actual presence of local roads, to agree on the level of condition requirements for roads, and according to the road management plan, funds must be allocated to local authorities with a minimum of four years perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U81	Thank you very much. Next up, call chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U82	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Dear representative of the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, In fact, this debate, which is going on here today, started a year ago. Last December a delegation from the Special Committee on State Budget Control visited London. We visited the British Parliament, specifically the audit committee. Colleagues came back from there, I'd say, with very bright eyes. We liked the way reports are made in this committee, how they are prepared and what interest they are of. At that time, we decided in the Commission that we would try to do something like this. To begin with, we wanted to choose a topic that would be interesting for the widest possible circle. We, of course, relied on audits by the National Audit Office. I would like to say my first thanks today as chairman of the committee precisely to the National Audit Office. Most of the members of the Commission supported the fact that we are choosing the topic of road maintenance for local authorities. Then the work began. Since we prepared such a report for the first time, it took quite a while. But I think our officials, who did a very big job, did it. I would like to express my special thanks to them. The special committee, to which Mr Sepp, the rapporteur and rapporteur of the report, twice presented the drafts and the material relating to this report, is, in my opinion, also worthy of gratitude. I competed with Andre to be the author of this report because there is complete democracy in our committee, sometimes, given our circumstances, even absurd democracy. I don't remember if we flipped a coin or pulled a match. I think we made a match. Thank Andre so much for doing this job, and he did it for the first time! On behalf of the Commission, I would like to thank everyone who listened to this debate here today, who was present and took part in this debate. I would like to thank the Minister and the representative of the Federation of Rural Governments. I hope that this form of work will continue to be applied and that the Special Committee on State Budget Control will be able to prepare at least a few times a year a report that is of interest both to members of the Riigikogu and to the Estonian public. Once again, thank you to all those who took part in this work.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U83	Thank you very much. I'm asking for Lembit Kaljuvee in the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U84	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! Good government representative! I took a car to western Ukraine in August of this year. Thank God I went in with the jeep! It's 300 kilometers from Lviv to Chernivts. I drove this country for almost seven hours, the hole was stuck in the hole, and it was an international route. I visited my friend, who we were in the army with in the early 1970's. I asked why there were roads like this. I was told that asphalt was too expensive to put on the road. The small money they give for the roads will be stolen by officials or entrepreneurs. That's why the roads are there. I remember the roads in Estonia 25 years ago. At that time, too, the country was driven around Russia, out to Murmanskin. I remember the roads here in the Baltics. Against this background, I liked today's debate on a key national issue. However, I did not like that we may have paid a little too little attention to the technical and organisational side of the reports. I think that we should certainly do something to ensure that our roads never become like Ukraine's roads. I believe that this will certainly not happen in Estonia. Indeed, the road situation can be changed. We've had one 50 to 60-year-long epoch of road construction and operation, and we have to put our road construction on new bases. On new foundations, in technical terms, in the sense of where we're going to build the path. I blamed the municipalities who razbiraku sredstva and toss that money out like that. I'm sure some of this is gonna go to put holes in it. Instead of making some kind of emergency repair on a ten-mile stretch of road, maybe two kilometres could build a decent road. If we spend ten years spending this small amount on emergency repairs, there will still be no tea in ten years. But if we had built a decent road for five years, we would have gotten a good road, a road that lasted 30 years. I'm talking about the fact that we don't have the right road register. We do not know what the technical condition of our roads is, which is why much money does not go to the right place. I'm not saying you don't have to fix holes, but you have to do it wisely. The first cost that the state and the municipality should spend together is a thorough inventory so that we can find out what we have, make a proper plan and then move forward on the basis of this plan. Indeed, it is precisely the technical side that needs to be approached in cooperation with scientists. Tallinn University of Technology and Tallinn University of Applied Sciences have very good equipment to test cold cycles, wear resistance and pressure needs. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has a technology centre that should be supported. Collaborate with scientists. These plans must be put in place with the municipalities. We have to make inventory and plans and then see how to spend the money. Money must be spent wisely, for it is always not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U85	Thank you. I'm asking for Kalev Lillo in the speech chair! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U86	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister! For my part, I would like to congratulate the Special Committee on State Budget Control and the author of the report, Andre Seppa, for raising such an important issue and for thorough analysis. People care about the road situation, it's important to them. In all the electoral programmes presented in the autumn, we will find references to roads. They are talking about the pavements, about the lighting of the roads, but they are planning to build a new street or clean up a section of the street. People don't usually notice when the roads are good, but they notice the bad situation on the roads. The taxpayer does not care about the ownership of roads. It's not uncommon for us to drive down a newly repaired state road and then get to a town where we're going to end up in a minefield. However, this should not be the case. The road system is a whole, road driving capacity and quality requirements should be ensured regardless of whether it is a national or a local road. The report highlights four major themes, the most important of which I consider, like many previous speakers, the issue of the road register. If we really do not know much more about local roads than the number of kilometres, and that is because the state is providing support to local governments, then in fact we do not have a road register as such. We must agree with the author of the report that it is all based on the establishment of a proper register. If there are too many data fields to be filled now, then this issue must also be discussed and the register may have to be adjusted so that fewer fields can be filled in in from now on. The report shows that the Road Administration has such readiness. The price for the inventory of local roads is mentioned at EUR 1 million. It is also pointed out that perhaps this money can be obtained from European Union subsidies. I believe that the European Union's money is intended to develop our country, to raise it to a new qualitative level, to carry out structural reforms. In our home affairs, these are the registration of the road network or the organisation of a singing party, we must manage by our own means. It is also clear from the report that the municipalities are ready to bear half the cost. I understand that the state is ready, as the Minister said, to add the other half of the money. After all, if this issue is so important to us, then it can also be resolved through the support that the state allocates to local governments, because by creating this register we are spending on our people, it is necessary. Thus, the first step is to organise the road register. This creates prerequisites for the next steps, which will certainly include adjusting the financing model. The state currently allocates money to the municipalities on the basis of road kilometres. I recall the summer interview of the Head of the Road Administration, where he gave an example that we are going to take the road from the left side of the hill, from the right side of the hill and, just in case, across the hill, but we should seriously consider whether we have a thing behind that hill and whether it needs three roads. Perhaps the road network needs to be critically reviewed in relation to the actual location of people and the need for mobility. There is also a need to take into account the burden of traffic, as obviously more roads with higher traffic will be needed, and these roads will also need to be organised more frequently. There is always talk of lack of money, of money never enough, of no one, of which there is still little. At the same time, the increase in the percentage of excise duties on fuel allocated in the form of a road tax fixed by law cannot be supported. Already we are facing the fact that even the press realises that the state budget has been decided too much in advance, life-related choices for political decision making are becoming increasingly difficult. However, it is also necessary to understand the local government leaders who would like some kind of certainty in funding to plan a repair or construction project and to draw up a road-saving plan that is visible and understandable to everyone. Here I support the position of the Ministry of Finance that the country's budgetary strategy is the document in which local governments can be given this assurance and the medium-term funds are foreseen. As we have heard from the Minister's report, it has already been implemented and has been reflected in the road map. When talking about money, you cannot forget the great objects that have been built in local governments with the support of the state. The last examples are Järvevana road and Ülemiste intersection in Tallinn with the longest tunnel in the country or roundabout in Tartu, which has also made the road multilevel in southern Estonia. In summary, it can be said that the issues and issues covered in the report are important. You can move on from their base. First, the road register needs to be repaired and the next step is to improve the financing model. The ultimate objective is a comprehensive and high-quality road network that ensures safe travel. If you will allow me, I will continue a little on the subject of Lembitu's initiative and recall the former times. I'm so old, I remember something from old times. Recalling city streets some ten years ago, it has to be said that they were not as well - off as the streets today. 20 years ago, when we could see a sign on the shop door that this day wasn't a commodity, it wasn't like that now. Nor do we travel in the same poor conditions as in our day. We have reached Europe, become more prosperous, at times so wealthy that the pedestrian area is not asphalted, but covered with street stone, in some towns or settlements not even with ordinary grey stone, but with a more expensive red stone that brings beauty to the eyes. If, at present, some individual municipalities can afford it on a few stretches of the street, I am sure that if the economy grows, it will soon be possible in many places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U87	Thank you very much. Call chair, Aivar Koka, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U88	Good manager! Good minister! Dear waitresses Andre and Märt! It is extremely important that state power at all levels is aware of the importance of regional policy. This means that important decisions must be preceded by an analysis of how these decisions affect the life of Estonia, the development of our diverse regions, the life of small and large cities and of all local governments at all. We often talk about negative issues. We are talking about what today or yesterday or the day before yesterday is or was good or bad, but we have to admit one thing in this Chamber today: in 2011, when the new formation gathered in this hall, only 5% of the tax on fuel was allocated to local governments. I think that tea money has been one of the few issues where opposition and coalition politicians have agreed that the money that the state has allocated to local government budgets has never been much. In 2011 this topic was very hot in the support group of local governments and regional policy in the Riigikogu. When we met with the Minister, we had him for nearly three hours in order for the 5% support to start growing. We finally got that deal. Today, we can say ex post that 6.5% of excise duties were already allocated in 2012 and almost 10% in this year's budget. This promise, made in 2011, has been fulfilled on the one hand. Is 10% sufficient, or is nearly EUR 30 million sufficient? That's a question with two sides. On the one hand, it is said that there is no more money, but on the other, it is said that the roads are not in order and the money is much more needed. I believe that this issue needs to be further developed. It is important that the state comes to the aid and the municipalities, in cooperation with the other party, are able to discuss this matter sensibly. It is necessary to put in place road-saving plans and to inventory all local roads in order to find out what the situation in each municipality is on different sections of the road. I think it is very important to learn what the design and construction requirements in road construction should be, so that our roads can last longer and they can also drive heavier cars. The issue of whether the currently authorised tonnage on the roads is sufficient or whether it should look towards neighbours, where the authorised tonnage of heavy goods vehicles on the roads is much higher, will certainly reach this hall. It must also be discussed whether it will have an economic effect if we build you a little more properly and invest a little more in them, but the transport costs for businesses to port and to transport goods across borders would be lower. These are all complex issues. I believe that 2014 could be the year when these problems will be resolved and the parties will be able to reach an agreement. If we adopt the 2015 state budget here in a year's time, we may see that the amounts have increased, these decisions and assumptions have been met, so that we can make good and even better decisions. Thank you and have a nice day.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U89	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We have finished discussing the first item on the agenda, a crucial national issue. I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate and those who have prepared the subject. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U90	We're going to the second item. The third reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Consumer Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do you want to negotiate? There are no negotiating requests. The Commission's proposal is that draft 505 should be put to the final vote. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Consumer Protection Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 505. Please take a stand and vote. 62 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U91	Agenda item 3 is the third reading of the Social Affairs Committee's draft law amending the Employment Services and Benefits Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act and the State Family Benefits Act 517. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that draft 517 should be put to the final vote. Let's get ready for the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act and the State Family Benefits Act 517. Please take a stand and vote. 61 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U92	The fourth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I would like a presentation by Lauri Luige, member of the Chair Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party launched a draft law amending the Study Grants and Student Loan Act 478 on 11 September. a. The first reading took place on 20 November. The Committee on Culture prepared the second reading in two sessions, attended by representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research and the Association of Estonian Student Unions. The Ministry of Education and Research tabled three amendments to the draft, and the Association of Estonian Student Unions made one amendment concerning the creation of a section of specific support based on need. On 9 December the Commission decided to propose four amendments to the draft. I will now give you a little more detail about these four proposals. The first amendment aims to make the application of needs-based study grants provided for in the Study Grants and Student Loan Act more flexible for students. According to this proposal, the student would be able to apply for study grant from September to January and from February to June for the following months of study. Amendment 2 concerns persons belonging to the family members of the student. This was also the essence of the draft initiated by the Social Democratic Party. The draft is intended to supplement the provision with an alternative condition by also considering the student's adult, up to 24-year-old siblings and half-sisters and half-brothers who study in upper secondary school as family members. The proposal provides to limit this change to inpatient learning only. In addition, it is proposed to supplement the list with siblings and half-sisters and half-brothers up to 24 years of vocational education in in inpatient education. The content of the third amendment is to supplement section 51 (21) of the Study Grants and Student Loan Act by exempting students who have grown up without parental care from the list of family members. According to a proposal submitted by the Ministry of Education and Research, family members of a student who has lost parental care are not counted as members of his or her biological parents, sisters, brothers, half-sisters and half-brothers if the student has lived in a substitute home until he or she reaches the age of adulthood, has been cared for in another family or has had an appointed guardian until he or she reaches the age of adulthood. If the above measures have ended earlier than the student has reached the age of adulthood, the exemption granted shall not apply to the student. Amendment 4 aims to delete § 2 from the draft, according to which the law would enter into force retroactively, i.e. the law. a on September 1. It is proposed that the law enters into force in general. If the draft was passed by law in the Riigikogu next week, it would enter into force before 1 February next year when another need-based study grant application round begins. That could be our goal. In a few words, the proposal submitted by the Association of Estonian Students' Associations on needs-based special support. Neither the Committee on Culture nor the Ministry of Education and Research supported the introduction of specific needs-based support in this form. According to the Ministry, needs-based education support aims at helping young people from families with permanent lower incomes to obtain higher education. The Ministry is of the opinion that solving the specific problems caused by the socio-economic situation of the student and his/her family must remain primarily the organisation of the social welfare of local governments. The introduction of specific needs-based support also requires an analysis of additional administrative burdens. Based on the evaluation by the Ministry of Education and Research, the Committee on Culture did not support the ECL proposal. In its decision, the Commission considered it important that the draft should be adopted as a law as soon as possible, as I mentioned, so that it can enter into force before the start of the next call for proposals starting in February next year. However, if we start discussing and analysing the subject of additional special support in depth, we will certainly not be able to get through with this important legislative amendment by February. The Committee on Culture considered it important to return to a more comprehensive analysis of needs-based learning grants in the first half of next year. When we do, we will also take on board the proposal of the ECL on specific support based on need. This is briefly all about the amendments tabled. At its meeting on 2 December, the Committee on Culture decided by consensus to submit a draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, i.e. by 12 December. At the same time, we decided to consensually make proposals to stop the second reading and, when the second reading is completed, to submit a draft for the third reading on the Riigikogu agenda by next week, December 19. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U94	No questions have been registered. Thank you very much, Lauri Luik. Before we go to the negotiations, I have to announce that the Bureau has received a proposal from the Group of the Social Democratic Party to extend the working time of the sitting. We must vote on this proposal. I call on the people to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Social Democratic Party to extend the working time of the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 46 members of the Riigikogu), 1 against and 1 abstention. The meeting has been extended. We'll continue the trial. Speaking chair Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good students and their families, or all the people who worry for a reason, are there any warm room and strength-giving food for the student to study! A legislative amendment was adopted in the Riigikogu last year, allowing for the systematic and transparent payment of needs-based learning grants. It is worth mentioning in three ways. First of all, for the first time in Estonian history, the Estonian state has to offer its students a statutory social allowance intended only for students and whose sole purpose is to improve their economic situation. Secondly, needs-based study grants were paid earlier than the coalition agreement between the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Reform Party promised. Although earlier payments are well-founded and logical, let us admit that they are still significant. Thirdly, legislative changes were born in cooperation. In the last few moments, the Riigikogu made amendments to the draft. The first attempt is not always the best, but the will to help Estonian students with substance and dignity is very sure. I am pleased that, as a result of the active cooperation between the Association of Estonian Student Unions, the Youth Council of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the Ministry of Education and Research and the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu, you have once again had a radically revised draft, which will definitely bring needs-based support to the table of more students. I specifically stress the dignity and constructive behaviour of the young Estonian elite, or representatives of the student society, in these discussions. In common, the incomes of the whole society, the real needs described soberly and intelligently, have shown respect for people who earn a sadly low salary in their daily work, and the opportunities of Estonian society have been taken into account. Young people with higher education are the ones who are most dependent on the improvement of the Estonian people's living conditions. Today's students are tomorrow's top specialists, employers, entrepreneurs, life promoters and developers. We learned from the recent PISA survey that more than one third of students from Estonia's poor socio-economic background are among the best students in terms of their knowledge and skills. The children of poorer families achieved even better learning results than us in only two countries where the income of a member of the Estonian Riigikogu seems so low that it would be a sign of poverty. Indeed, it is very important that these children, bright - minded but poorer, can learn in peace when they reach the university. We're talking about our national wealth. I would therefore stress that we have not yet packed things up, but that the files are open on the table and cooperation continues, as the previous speaker stressed. One unsolved question was the sudden deterioration of the financial situation of the student and his family. The first recommendation is then to contact the local government to receive income support from the state budget. However, we firmly believe that it may not be enough to support a young person who often lives away from the family. The primary objective of the student is still to complete higher education. It is our common concern that a young person does not have insurmountable obstacles. Up until now, universities have had a fund from which grants can be paid to students in exceptional cases, and this system continues for students in older courses. Universities can also continue to pay special support to first-year students in unexpected cases, but we believe that the payment of such special benefits could be even safer. This is also proposed by the Association of Estonian Student Unions. However, there was too little time to discuss this proposal, the introduction of specific needs-based support, and it was considered reasonable, together and in agreement, to urgently correct the major gaps in the law on student grants and student loans that emerged in practice. I assure you that the Prosamaa and Res Publica Union share the concerns of the Estonian Student Union that the idea of special support should also be granted to those whose economic situation will not deteriorate during the year. Everyone can also read from the explanatory memorandum to the discussions in the Committee on Culture that we consider it necessary to carry out a comprehensive analysis of study grants at the beginning of next year. We look forward to an active and substantive debate next year in order to move forward with the improvement of the education support system. However, concrete proposals can, of course, be put on the road right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U96	Thank you very much. I'm requesting a call chair for Helmen Hunter! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U97	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law under discussion was presented by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, responding to the story in the press about a freshman who did not start receiving needs-based education support because his high school sister had reached 18 years of age. Both the government and the Riigikogu's legislative cull led to the exclusion of the sister from the household, and so the older sister's income exceeded the threshold required to receive the allowance. We are grateful for the help of the Ministry of Education and Research in clarifying the text of the draft and adding additions to it. Especially important is the possibility offered by the Ministry that in the future needs-based study support can be applied for "on-going," monthly rather than just twice a year. However, cosmetic improvements to this bill do not solve the main problem, reflected in the fact that only 16% of students applied for this support when the budget planned that 39% of primary students would receive this support. As we heard yesterday in Question Time, the Minister considers this to be due to a lack of information among young people. We consider this to be the reason for the basis for the grant, i.e. based on the extended concept of family rather than on a household living together in fact, as is the case with other social benefits, and, of course, on the fact that tax returns from one and a half years ago are taken into account in the award of the grant, not in the current economic situation of the family. The Association of Estonian Student Unions submitted a proposal to the Committee on Culture, which would have created a new type of support, based on the need for specific support. This would be the case for students whose net income for the previous six months does not exceed the average income rate to be taken into account for the need-based education allowance established by the state budget each year. This would allow for a more operational response to changes in the student's income. Social Democrats basically support this approach. They see the creation of a special fund at the disposal of higher education institutions as a solution where money can be distributed on an ad hoc and operational basis. There would be no need for extra spending, as there would be enough money left undistributed. Such a buffer fund exists for students of older courses who receive support under the old law, but it was not created for first-year students, although the Social Democrats proposed it when discussing the bill. Unfortunately, the examination of the proposal of the Association of Estonian Student Unions requires additional time and would postpone the introduction of the draft currently under discussion as a law. Against this background, we do not wish to interrupt the second reading of the draft, but we will be satisfied with the consensus in the Committee on Culture to return to the whole law after the analysis of the second round of needs-based application for study support that will become apparent in February. On the basis of this analysis, the representatives of the Ministry also agreed to propose further adjustments to the system. Yesterday, we heard the Minister's argument that making the system more operational, even paying subsidies on a quarterly basis (at present so needs-based family allowances) would mean a significant increase in the bureaucratic apparatus. We trust the self-control of the higher education community, or social group. It is on this basis that, a year ago, we proposed that this support be determined on the basis of the actual income of each month, the previous month, actually on the basis of the so-called ex post, factual material situation. We were based on the assumption that the particular control and decision-making machinery would not have had to be created at all to distribute this support. Moral self - esteem and a system of value within the group, based on the notion that a future teacher, doctor, or lawyer will not lie, should become important. I would remind you that the draft submitted gave the tax authority the right to disclose information containing tax confidentiality to the institution which manages the need-based system of study grants and provided that, if it were found that the student had to be aware that he was not eligible for the allowance but requested it, in addition to having to repay the grant he had received, he would lose the right to apply for and receive support both in the school year in which the grant was stopped and in the following school year. We believe that the risk of public shame and financial shock is so great that the future young specialist will not lie in writing either about his place of residence or the size of his or her income or the income of his or her parents. We hope that the adjustment of the system will move towards confidence rather than control. We call for support for small improvements in the draft under discussion, which is still a step towards reason! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U98	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Four amendments have been received from the Committee on Culture. The first amendment has been fully taken into account by the commission. The second amendment has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 3 has been fully taken into account. Amendment 4 has been fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 478 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U99	Today's fifth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Defence Union Act initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. I ask for a presentation by Ms Kaia Iva, member of the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft under discussion was completed. November 7th. Three amendments to the draft were tabled by Marianne Mikko, a member of the Riigikogu, by the deadline of 12 November at 13:00. One amendment to the draft was tabled by the Commission itself on the proposal of Mr Aivar Engel, Head of the Consultative Commission on National Defence. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading on 5 and 9 December. Marianne Mikko, Member of the Commission, took part in these meetings as the representative of the initiator of the draft act and as the proposer of the amendments. At the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 5 December, Lea Vaba, Head of the General Department of the General Staff of the Defence Union, informed the National Defence Committee that the General Assembly of the Defence Union on 22 November did not find support for the wording of § 1 (1) of the first reading text proposed by the National Defence Commission, as amended in the plenary session at first reading on 7 November. The Central Assembly of the Defence League supported the wording of the Ministry of Defence. It was verbally stated that the amendments tabled by the member of the Riigikogu Marianne Mikko, the Minister of Defence and the Ministry of Defence have not submitted this proposal. Now I am talking about the amendments. The National Defence Committee did not support the amendments tabled by Marianne Mikko, member of the Riigikogu (proposals Nos 1, 3 and 4). According to these, the young member of the Defence League could be an Estonian citizen who is 7 to 18 years old or a natural person who lives permanently in Estonia, while a young member who is not an Estonian citizen may only belong to the youth organisation of the Defence League. The National Defence Committee was based here on the text of the draft at first reading on 7 November, which was submitted to reading by consensus of the committee with the consent of the drafters, or the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, as amended and accepted by the Head of the Defence League and the Riigikogu. I would point out that the age of the young members of the Defence League, who were not citizens, was 7 to 15 years old, was laid down at the time, in particular, on the recommendation of the Chief of the Defence League. Thus, according to § 1 (1) of the bill, natural persons aged 7 to 15 who reside permanently in the Republic of Estonia can become a young member of the Defence League regardless of their nationality. According to § 6 of the Citizenship Act, an alien who is at least 15 years old, who has a residence permit or a permanent right of residence for a long-term resident and who has lived in Estonia for at least eight years may become an Estonian citizen, the last five years being permanent. The above gives a stateless person who is a young member of the Defence League the opportunity to apply for Estonian citizenship and, once he or she has obtained citizenship, he or she will have more opportunities than he or she has previously, for example, since he or she has reached the age of 16, to diversify his or her choices in continuing his or her activities in the Defence League. According to § 22 (3) of the Defence League Act, a young member of an Estonian citizen who is 16 to 18 years old may belong not only to youth organisations but also to the chess members of the Defence League, the cyber defence unit and the Women's Home Protection. According to § 11 of the Peace Time National Defence Act, the voluntary National Defence Organisation is part of the Defence Forces. In addition, § 124 of the Constitution states that Estonian citizens are obliged to take part in national defence on the basis and according to the procedure laid down by the Act. Thus, the obligation and tasks of national defence can only be imposed on Estonian citizens. Amendment 2 is from the Committee on National Defence. The Commission's proposal is to delete the second sentence of § 901 of § 1 (2) of the draft: '16 years of age and older members must comply with § 25 (1) of this Act by 1 October 2014. ' Before the first reading of the draft, the National Defence Commission received information from the Defence League that the oldest non-citizen eagle that was excluded from the Defence League was 16 years old, and therefore § 1 (2) of the draft was worded accordingly, providing for a transitional period for the application for citizenship until 1 October 2014. However, the Commission meeting on 5 December 2013 revealed that the oldest non-citizen young eagle was born on 19 October 1998 and is 15 years old and therefore became empty. Therefore, Paragraph 1 (2) of the draft provides that the membership of the Defence League of a person who was a member of a special organisation of the Defence League before the entry into force of the Defence Union Act is to be considered as a young member of a youth organisation with retroactive effect from 1 April 2013. At its meeting on 5 December, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 12 December and to propose that the second reading be terminated. At the end of the second reading, the Committee on National Defence also decided to propose that the third reading of the draft and the final vote be held on 18 December. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U101	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Kaia Iva! Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Neeme the Great! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U102	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, We are currently dealing with the amendment of the Defence Union law as regards the participation of young members of the Defence Union and stateless young people in the activities of youth organisations of the Defence Union. According to the current Defence Union law, a stateless young person should not be a member of the Youth Organisation of the Defence Union. In spring, when the new Defence League law came into force, this situation arose. This is contrary to the statutes of the Defence League sub-organisations as well as to actual practice. According to the draft under discussion, such a restriction will be removed. The argument is that the youth organisation does not engage in arms training, but especially in patriotic education and the Defence League's active activities in raising youth, including raising non-citizens young people, are essential. The contested point here is the age limit. According to the bill now before you, a young person could be among the young people of the Defence League until the end of the 15th year. After that, he should either take Estonian citizenship or step out of the organisation. At the same time, the Defence League itself considers that a non-citizen young person could be a member of a youth organisation until the age of 18. After 18 years of age, a member of the youth organisation must decide whether or not to become an active member of the Defence League. The active member of the Defence League can only be a citizen, so in 18 years of age, decision-making is inevitable. What is the opinion of the Minister of Defence? In his letter to the National Defence Commission on 29 July, he wrote: "The Government of the Republic supports the position of the Ministry of Defence that the Defence League, as the largest voluntary organisation of citizens, must decide for itself who they see as their members and how it should be regulated by law. The central assembly of the Defence Union will shape its common position on the membership of the Defence Union in October after the central assemblies of youth organisations have taken place. ' Let's do a little chronology. The meeting of the Youth Eagle Chiefs' Central Assembly took place on 14 September. The Central Council supported the membership of non-citizens in the organisation and considered that the age limit should not force a young person to leave the organisation at the age of 16. The meeting of the body of parents of the daughters of the house also took place on September 14th, and the daughters of the house had the same view as the Young Eagles. The Council of Elders of the Defence League met on 19 November. The Council of Elders unanimously supported the amendment of the law and supported the view that young people should not be forced to leave the organisation at the age of 16. The General Assembly of the Defence League, the highest decision-making body of the Defence Union, met on 22 November. Two options were submitted to the central assembly: the age limit for non-national membership is 16 years of age or 18 years of age. The central assembly of the Defence League unanimously, with 54 votes in favour, supported the option of a young person being a member of the Youth Organisation of the Defence League until the age of 18. It is no longer possible for an organisation to express its position more clearly. I do not know why the Committee on National Defence rejected the amendments tabled by Commissioner Marianne Mikko. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the draft is not in line with the positions of the Defence League or with the positions of the Minister of Defence himself, expressed in clear and written terms, the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic. The amendments tabled by Marianne Mikko follow directly the opinion of the Defence League and its youth organisations. We do not have any argument or justification why we should disregard the position of the Defence League as an organisation at the moment. We have no reason why we should force a young person to leave the organization after his 16th year of age. In two years, he's gonna have time to decide anyway. I very much hope that the plenary of the Riigikogu will take account of the opinion of the Defence League and support the amendments tabled by Marianne Mikko, member of the National Defence Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U103	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no more calls. Let us examine the amendments. Amendment 1 has been tabled by Ms Mikko; the proposal of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U104	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U105	Thank you. We will vote on this amendment. Let's get ready for the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment tabled by Marianne Mikko, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 12 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 33 against and no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Committee on National Defence; this proposal has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 3 has been tabled by Marianne Mikko; this proposal has not been taken into account by the commission. Amendment 4 has been tabled by Marianne Mikko; the proposal of the commission is to disregard this amendment. The amendments have been examined. The Bureau has received a statement from the Social Democratic Party Group. They propose to suspend the second reading of draft 458. I shall put this proposal to the vote. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U106	Thank you. Such a story that we are the initiators of this bill. We stop reading when we want to. There's nothing to vote on.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-12_U107	If that's the case, I'm sorry I didn't know that nuance! The Social Democratic Party Group has interrupted the second reading of the draft law 458. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 1:15 p.m.
