ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the 18th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the Riigikogu's decision to establish a special committee for the control of state budget, I will hand over to the Riigikogu a report on the activities of the special committee for the control of the state budget of the Riigikogu covering the period July 2012 to June 2013. The activity report is available on 12 pages, together with a summary of the reviews and control reports in the proceedings of the Special Committee on National Budget Control and the results of their proceedings on six pages. There have been 56 meetings during the end of the reporting period; 36 audit reports have been accepted by the Commission. An overview of the audit reports in the proceedings, as I said, is here on 12 pages. Representatives of the National Audit Office have participated in the discussions of the Commission's meetings, the Chancellors of Ministries, Deputy Chancellors and other officials involved in a specific audit area have been invited. All our meetings have been broadcast on the Internet, information about them is available on Parliament's website, and all the meetings have been stenographically recorded. In addition to discussing the control reports, the Commission has addressed a number of issues and issues that have been indirectly or directly related to the reports. During the reporting period, there have been two extraordinary sessions, three joint sessions, three outwards sessions and two discussions in the conference room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U3	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mart Laar, a former Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, has said that he is giving up day politics. I can say at this point that he has promised to give up day-to-day policy in favour of the activities of Eesti Pank. Since the connection with the VEB Fund is obviously one of the biggest disgraces and confusions in the history of Eesti Pank, it is extremely important for Estonian society to learn the truth about this issue. The respective special committee of the Riigikogu will certainly bring us closer to the truth, but from the new chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, we and the general public want to know whether he is prepared to deal with this issue. On the other hand, we want his assessment of what has happened and his opinion on those responsible. Everyone is aware that in 1998, more than half a billion kroons of government certificates from Eesti Pank moved out of the VEB Fund, including 360 million kroons. The Minister of Finance and the Head of Eesti Pank have repeatedly claimed before the Riigikogu that the state failed to obtain the money from Russia and the certificates of the VEB Fund are worthless. Now, 20 years later, it is known that some companies and individuals have managed to obtain money from Russia, and all transactions have been approved by Eesti Pank. In the 1990s, claims on Estonian banks were allocated to the reorganisation of the banking and financial system and transferred to the VEB Fund. In essence, the persons who received the VEB Fund certificates were deprived of the money in the bank. As a result, the Association of Democrats of the Riigikogu will submit an inquiry to Mart Laar, the new Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, in order to clarify the responsibility of the government and the central bank towards persons who have received certificates from the VEB Fund. We will ask him five questions to clarify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Let's go to the messages. On Wednesday, 19 June, the following members of the government will take part in Question Time: Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu in the role of Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now making a presence check. 93 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present; no 8.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U6	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of draft 445 on the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC as regards disclosure of non-financial and diversity information by large companies and groups of companies. I would like to address the Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Mr Arto Asa.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U7	Honourable Riigikogu! In order for everyone to understand the substance of our decision today, it is necessary to begin by clarifying the concept of subsidiarity. In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the European Union is only empowered to adopt acts where specific objectives cannot be achieved by the Member States' own regulations and where there are supranational features of the issue concerned. In addition, action by the European Union must always provide clear advantages compared to national regulation. If EU action is not more effective than measures implemented at national, regional or local level, the principle of subsidiarity prohibits the EU from implementing its actions. The primary objective of compliance with the principle of subsidiarity is to protect the sovereignty of the Member States and to justify the European Union to extend its competence when its actions have proved ineffective. With the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon on 1 December 2009, national parliaments were given the right to assess the compatibility of draft European Union legislation with the principle of subsidiarity. If Parliament considers that the draft legislation does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity, Parliament may submit a reasoned opinion to the Presidents of the European Parliament and of the Commission and to the President of the Council of the European Union. Pursuant to § 1526 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the right to initiate a draft decision of the Riigikogu containing a reasoned opinion is limited to the European Union Affairs Commission. Let it be added that the debate on subsidiarity in the Riigikogu plenary is currently taking place for the first time in the history of the Riigikogu. In short, the content of this directive. The European Commission has proposed a directive obliging large companies and groups to disclose non-financial and diversity information. The first amendment requires large companies to increase the number of non-financial disclosures in the following areas: environmental issues, social and labour issues, respect for human rights and anti-corruption issues. The second objective is to increase the diversity of the management bodies of companies by providing additional information. The draft requires stock exchange companies to state the background to all levels of management, including data on age, gender, geographical diversity and educational and professional background. The content of our draft decision today is as follows: The Committee on European Union Affairs is of the opinion that the proposal for a directive runs counter to the principle of subsidiarity, as the need for intervention at EU level is not obvious. The presentation of a reasoned opinion to the European Union is motivated by the desire to preserve Estonia's right to decide on a fair balance between the obligations of companies and the freedom to conduct a business, and by what measures to strike a balance. At present, it is the Member States' competence to decide on the rights of a company, and companies generally exist under national law. This is also confirmed by the settled case-law of the Court of Justice, according to which a company established under its own legal system exists under national law which governs its activities. The disclosure of non-financial information increases the administrative burden on companies and it is not clear that disclosure of such information would better protect the interests of investors than the already existing obligation to disclose financial information and environmental and social risk analyses. A few words about the procedure. The Committee on European Union Affairs decided on 23 May this year to prepare a draft decision of the Riigikogu containing a reasoned opinion on why the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity. At the meeting on 3 June, it was decided to submit a draft decision to the plenary procedure at ELAK, and the Riigikogu Board set the deadline for amendments at 4 p.m. on 11 June. At its meeting on 7 June, the Committee on European Union Affairs decided to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 18 June, and the chairman of the committee, Mr Aas, was appointed rapporteur. On 14 June, the ELAK agenda included examining amendments and shaping Estonia's negotiating positions on the directive. No amendments were received from other committees or the political groups of the Riigikogu. The Committee on European Union Affairs decided to support the position of the Government of the Republic, according to which, firstly, Estonia supports the objectives set out in the draft directive, but considers that the measures proposed by the European Commission are contrary to the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity. Secondly, Estonia considers that this objective can be achieved at Member State level, which ensures appropriate flexibility and allows both companies and Member States to respond effectively to changes in society. Thirdly, the government considers that reporting on the activities of companies should focus on modernising basic and useful information and the need for harmonisation of mandatory national law must be clearly justified. And fourthly, the government considers it appropriate to regulate further disclosure of non-financial information by means of recommended instruments. The Committee on European Union Affairs supported the Government's positions on the draft by 7 votes to 2, with 1 abstention. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you support the draft decision of the Riigikogu 445 and adopt it as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U8	Thank you very much. Today we are discussing a draft decision of the Riigikogu, which contains a reasoned opinion on why the draft legislative act of the European Union does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity. As the Riigikogu is dealing with such a bill for the first time, I will now introduce you to the procedure. Each member of the Riigikogu can ask two oral questions to the rapporteur. Then there are negotiations where representatives of permanent committees and political groups can speak. The call from the remote is then five plus three minutes or two minutes. Following a revision of the amendments to this draft, they were not received, and then the final vote will be taken. Let's get to the questions. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U9	Good waitress! The European Commission argues that the objectives of the Directive would not be achieved by the Member States on their own and that it is more appropriate to organise it at Union level because of the desired effect of the measure. You spoke very sympatheticly about the principle of subsidiarity. Perhaps you will explain in a few words what the Estonian state's own actions have been on the ground, namely to achieve the objectives set by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U10	We did not focus on this in the Commission's discussions. Depends on what aspects we're talking about. I do not recall that the Estonian state would have tried in any way to regulate the composition of the staff of companies in view of geographical diversity or the educational background or age of people. We have a law on gender equality and certain policy objectives and regulations can be highlighted in this area. However, in very many areas, which the Commission would like to regulate in Estonia, my memory shows that there are no examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U11	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U12	Good performer! I read that the drafters have found that the European Commission has failed to justify the need to disclose "non-financial information." But I don't see anywhere on the basis of which the drafters claim it. I don't understand, even though I listened to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U13	The European Commission's draft is accompanied by quite a long explanatory note in Estonian, which is shorter and longer in English. Only seven Member States have been analysed in this area. There are no lines for Estonia, there are four lines for Finland. On this basis, our members of the Commission deepened their conviction that this analysis has not been comprehensive enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U14	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U15	Good performer! Do you not feel that these changes are glowing through financial institutions' interest in hedging their business risks? Perhaps the source of this information is the current market financing institutions that need this information.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U16	I don't feel that way. As far as obtaining information is concerned, I think that there are also less restrictive measures to obtain it from businesses or from the business environment at all. Companies submit quite a lot of data to Statistics Estonia in addition to their annual activity and economic reports and it is certainly possible to carry out a variety of qualitative studies. This is perhaps not the most important information for this directive. You are saying that this information is important to the financiers. I think financial information is priority 1 for them, and it is quite precisely regulated what financial information companies need to record in their reports.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U17	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U18	Dear waitress, We also have a number of state companies. If the European Union still pushes through its so-called wisdom, how many state companies would that affect us?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U19	This material does not explicitly reflect how many state-owned companies this would affect, but I think there are quite a few. The state-owned companies are generally quite large. In total, it would affect about 50 companies operating in Estonia. If you count on your fingers quickly, maybe we can get together a dozen state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U20	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U21	Honourable Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Are there any other countries' views on the draft? For example, what views do our neighbors have?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U22	According to the latest information, subsidiarity checks have been launched in seven other countries, at least this issue has been discussed. These include classic sceptical members of the European Union such as Finland, Belgium, Spain, Romania, Poland, the Bundestag, Germany. The Chambers of the three countries have found that the subsidiarity problem is not the Swedish Parliament, the German Bundesrat and the Polish Senate. The field itself is quite complex and specific, and in the end it may even be a bit emotional. There are countries in which one Chamber of Parliament thinks there is a contradiction with the principle of subsidiarity; the second Chamber of Parliament does not find it. Once again, he's a complicated area.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U23	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U24	Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Can the planned changes result from the need to diversify the governing bodies of Eesti Energia in the future, for example, so that there will be more women and more men there will already be representatives of the entire army and other living areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U25	If you try to predict for a long time where this might lead, then perhaps at some point there will also be sanctions if the composition of the governing bodies or of the entire staff is not diverse. It is currently being called for to have data on this and a diversity policy developed. There are no direct quotas introduced by the Directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U26	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U27	The Commission was a bit confused, and the explanatory memorandum does not provide any very precise information on the purpose for which this information would be needed either in order to increase the transparency of stock exchange companies and improve the possibility of trading on the stock exchange, or in order to obtain a European-wide picture of what is happening in these areas. This issue is undoubtedly very important in order to assess whether or not it is a breach of the principle of subsidiarity. If information is needed at European Union level, you could say that the principle of subsidiarity has not been violated, otherwise there is reason to say that there is. How do you feel about what level this information is considered necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U28	When reading the explanatory memorandum, the initiator of the draft ELAK clearly stresses that there is a desire to have a pan-European picture. However, it seems to me that there are, as I have already said, less burdensome measures to obtain this information. In order to obtain information, these requirements do not necessarily need to be introduced by a directive at EU level. At the same time, the political objective of the initiator of the draft could also be that, if this information is public, there might be some pressure on businesses in some sectors. This could be the second objective of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U29	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U30	Good performer! The government has stated as one of the reasons why it does not support the implementation of the Directive in order to ensure that companies have an obligation to provide an overview of the firm's assets and liabilities, that their financial position, profit or loss is a sufficient measure to safeguard the lasting interests of capital companies. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum states that the board with its diverse composition makes more sensible decisions. My question is: what is the basis of our government's position? How dare you say that's the case?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U31	You have to ask the government. For me, I say that the reasons for my personal opinion were not that a more diverse management necessarily means better, more rational decisions, frankly convincing. Perhaps this proposal is driven by very large companies operating in the old Member States of the European Union. For example, in a French society where the elite come from one school or city, there is an attempt to break something with regulations. If we look at the Estonian companies that operate on the stock market, then in European terms, these are small companies. Silvano, Baltika, Harju Elekter, these are not comparable to the companies perceived as large companies in Europe. To say that in a small country like Estonia, the management of companies must also be chosen in view of the aspect of geographical diversity, there is no basis. Is it a problem that all leaders come from one city or a village? I don't know examples like that. The same applies to educational background. I think that's the point. We believe that something will be regulated at European level that should not be regulated at this level in the Estonian country. We don't have these problems. That's my interpretation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U32	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U33	Good colleague! I wonder what steps the Estonian state should take after the adoption of these amendments. And I have another question in this regard: do we not have significant additional budgetary commitments?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U34	It is true that our position today, when the decision that a directive is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity is approved, will not in itself end this process. Discussions within the European Union will continue. If there is no blocking minority, so that the directive is placed in a drawer, the negotiations will proceed. We have also confirmed the positions of the Estonian Government in the negotiations. But sometime, after a few years, this directive could take some form. As far as costs are concerned, the explanatory memorandum contained different estimates, about EUR 4000 to 5000 per company. It's kind of a subjective assessment. I do not see that there are any costs to the Estonian state budget, but rather administrative burdens and low budget costs for companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U35	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U36	Dear waitress, What effect do you think this desired change will have on the freedom to conduct a business and how can we achieve a normal balance between freedom to conduct a business and all kinds of commitments?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U37	I do not think that this would have a positive impact on the freedom to conduct a business. It was also one of the competitions discussed by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The Committee on Economic Affairs supports the views that are in this draft. Once again, this would certainly not have a positive effect on the freedom to conduct a business. The position of the draft directive's explanatory memorandum is also a little disturbing, since businesses do not know what is economically good for them and do not know how to think for a long time. That statement was very hollow for me. It seemed like the entrepreneur was stupid, but he wasn't. Whoever has been in contact with stock exchange companies knows that the stock price of the stock exchange today reflects future cash flows, and it is very clear that companies, especially the managers of public companies on the stock exchange, are well aware of what is useful to them in the long term and what is not. This was also pointed out by the Chamber of Commerce, confirming that if large companies have done something right in this life in order to grow up, there must not be such an attitude that they do not know the economic impact of their decisions in the long term either. If any information is useful to them, they will. We have examples that this has also been done in Estonia. Ten companies already disclose additional information. The law also requires an assessment of social and environmental risks in the activity report, where these risks exist. Recently, I saw a report by the VKG, or Viru Chemistry Group, which contained a great deal of additional information, the presentation of which does not come from any law. Exchange companies have adopted corporate governance practices; they have additional regulations. Read the stock market regulation, the laws related to the financial market, there are hundreds of pages that may contain thousands of paragraphs that businesses have to follow. So this is a rather complicated world, and I don't want to create any additional obstacles. We know that the stock market in Estonia is already more or less shady and that businesses must be attracted to it, not imposing additional obligations on companies there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U38	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U39	Good waitress, I'm so sorry, but it's kind of weird to listen to the logic of the owner of the 19th century steam engine factory in 2013. Aren't you misleading us, Riigikogu, with what you're saying right now? After all, this directive provides, for example, for the disclosure of where someone comes from, and whatever. It does not provide that choices must be made in such a way that leaders must be chosen from three different places. We're talking about more public information about the company than it is now. Have I got something wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U40	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, If you read the explanatory statement, the point is still to force companies to pursue a more diverse human resources policy. If you only read the text of the bill, then maybe it doesn't come out that way, unfortunately, from the explanatory statement. A great deal of attention is drawn to some group thinking on the management of companies and to some well-intentioned room for manoeuvre. I really have not seen this problem in Estonia. On the contrary! Let's take our best example of Skype, which grew up in one company. I'm glad it was group thinking! Some of the guys from the same school did something big, and the company kept growing, and now it's international. In conclusion: this is not, in my opinion, a problem for the Estonian state. And there is no limit to the disclosure of information, God forbid!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U41	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U42	I personally, of course, do not support the imposition of unjustified additional obligations on companies either. However, I cannot agree in any way that disclosure of this information would in any way restrict the freedom of the company. On the contrary, society has a better understanding of what is happening in companies. Shareholders of companies that are on the Tallinn Stock Exchange, as many as there are left, have the opportunity to obtain more information. It seems to me that this is an increase in freedom rather than a restriction. As far as the government is concerned, the representative of the government in the Commission said that these matters should, in principle, be dealt with. At the same time, they do not intend to proceed with so-called positive regulation, i.e. to oblige anyone, but the possibility already exists for businesses. If there is such a desire, how does the government intend to disclose this information?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U43	We have indeed discussed this in the Commission. The government's views state that more information can be progressed, but it should start with recommended or voluntary methods. If this debate is ongoing, some government proposals will soon follow. In my opinion, we could start by first disclosing more information about stock market participants and companies that are guided by corporate governance. They could agree on that among themselves. From there you can write something about stock market regulations and our country's legislation. Even if nothing works, we could really go to the level of the European Union, to do it in a coherent way. This is the question of proportionality and subsidiarity: we do not see the problem, but we are going to regulate it at the highest level of decision-making. In our opinion, this is unnecessary at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U44	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U45	The free movement of capital is clearly one of the pillars on which the whole of the European Union stands. And at the same time, more and more Europeans are, in one way or another, through some kind of fund or whatever way, constantly investors. What would be the objection to knowing where the money is invested? Why can't these rules be the same across Europe, so we know where we put our money?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U46	Very many rules already apply across Europe and we think that such an additional obligation is not justified at the moment. As I said, there are very clear rules for the disclosure of financial information, and this is information that interests investors in particular. In addition, there is already an obligation to reflect social and environmental aspects in the reports. So we don't see the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U47	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U48	I'll fix you, Eiki! You were easy to fuck up when you said that free movement of capital is democracy. The free movement of capital is undoubtedly not a democracy. Democracy is the free movement of services, goods and people. But that's not the point right now. Good waitress, did I get you right that everything really comes down to the fact that the European Union is sticking its nose in things that are not hers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U49	In a very brief reply, I agree, about this way it could be formulated yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U50	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U51	Good speaker! You have said many times that companies know what they are doing and what is best for them, whether to provide more information or not. But don't you think that when we talk about companies with more than 500 employees or those that are public stock exchange companies, they bear not only financial responsibility for society but also a much broader responsibility, because they also create trends? If we do not know which way our companies move from the point of view of environmental sustainability or recruitment, then we can stay here in Estonia in the last century. Do you not think that companies of this size are much more responsible than only for their own business? Perhaps they are responsible for the development of society as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U52	Larger companies are certainly more visible, they certainly shape certain trends. However, I believe that if you read or monitor reports on their activities, you will not see the problems or risks that this directive is trying to regulate. Before imposing new obligations on Estonian entrepreneurs, I would like to see an in-depth analysis of what problem this is, which we will solve by force. There are no lines in this explanatory memorandum in the section of the impact assessment for Estonia. There are 27 Member States, but now 28, but only a few aspects of the seven countries have been analysed. This is not well-founded for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U53	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U54	Honourable waitress! You said that the non-compliance of this directive with the principle of subsidiarity concerns 50 companies in Estonia. The explanatory memorandum also indicated how much the estimated relevant reports could cost the company. I think that, even in the case of a small country the size of Estonia, when this directive is implemented, it means dozens of new workers who do not create added value. Can you explain what added value these dozens of workers create? Already today, the manager of one furniture company has given an example that two or three accountants in their group are only working on reporting to the state. What added value could these additional workers bring to society?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U55	Indeed, I do not see much added value. And as has already been said, our capital market is on rather weak feet. We would like to have more companies on the stock market, but when it comes to current or potential managers of large companies, they say that one very clear argument against going to the stock market is excessive regulation. Stock exchanges are very regulated, detailed requirements are in place, and now they want us to write something more. I really do not think that we would win anything in the Republic of Estonia if we found out how Harju Elekter fights for human rights. Hey, this isn't serious! We have much more serious problems with entrepreneurship both in Estonia and elsewhere in Europe. The European Treaties, by the way, give the European Union the full right to deal with the removal of restrictions, the breaking down of different practices and the combating of protectionist methods rooted in some countries. I would like the European Union to deal with this side. But right now, yes, there are commitments that I do not see as beneficial in the Estonian context. There are perhaps Member States where this is useful, and that is why we think that this right should be left to the Member States themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U56	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U57	Dear waitress, Subsidiarity is a principle that really requires a dispute between two parties. In this case, these parties are a Member State and the European Union, and the limits of subsidiarity will be clarified during the debate. In this sense, the initiative of ELAK is very welcome. Does it not seem to you that the company law of other countries of the European Union is of old origin, historical, but Estonian company law is modern and new? Therefore, the problems that exist in the European Union do not necessarily exist in Estonia. Perhaps, therefore, the problem that the European Union has raised is not quite adequate with regard to Estonia. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U58	Yes, I agree with your reasoning. But, above all, I would stress that the differences between Member States in this area are quite large. That is why it should be left to the Member States to resolve these problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U59	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U60	Good waitress! I want to draw attention to one thing and ask. Attention is drawn to the fact that, when discussing this issue in ELAK, it was thought that there would be a discussion in this Chamber on whether Estonian companies needed such regulations, which they would provide and how much burden would increase. That's not what's going on right now. The essence of the matter is that the European Union is trying to tell us what we should be doing here in an area where we consider that they do not have the need and competence to do so. And we could leave it there. At other times, if we want to discuss what our companies are reporting, perhaps we will take up this issue as well. This could be very exciting. But here's my question. If we are talking about stock exchange regulations and European Union regulations and reporting on companies' own initiative, would it not make sense to leave it to the companies in Estonia to decide what they report and how, and if they go to the stock exchange, they will follow the rules of the stock exchange?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U61	Very many nuances are up to the Member States themselves. Of course, as a liberal, I would also like the company itself, or at least the stock exchange in which companies operate together, to establish these rules. The Accounting Act, of course, is based on international standards and quite a lot on the Common European Area of Justice. Well, it's all about balancing. In the interests of the internal market, certain basic conditions and basic rules have been agreed, while Member States and market participants themselves have discretion in their nuances.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U62	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U63	Honourable waitress! In the draft directive, I understand, there is not a word about Estonia, yet this directive would also have an effect in Estonia. According to the Directive, the provision of non-financial information by companies has no impact on the budget of the European Union. How, though, would this affect the performance of the administrative duties of Estonian entrepreneurs? How much time and money would that take? Has anyone thought about that even a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U64	It's meant to be. A certain impact assessment for companies operating in Europe is also included in the draft directive. This is, of course, an economic burden, of course, a cost, but the draft confirms that these are not a problem for large companies. However, I would consider these obligations very carefully, by putting in place what will be obtained with this money. I think that this expenditure does not deserve itself in the Estonian context.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U65	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U66	Dear waitress, I remembered that an opinion leader with a sharp tongue said that information in the 21st century was as valuable a resource as oil. We did not discuss this issue at ELAK, and my question is rather rhetorical. If someone wants non-financial information from an Estonian stock exchange company, whether it is the geographical distribution of employees on the world map, do you think that the stock exchange company will not give this information to the wisher?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U67	I guess I won't. If there's a legitimate interest, you don't. Estonia has a total of 16 listed companies. They are our journalists, at least economic journalists, all known in their sleep, their names, employees, including people who have to report. So I believe that in Estonia all this information is, of course, reasonably available.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U68	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U69	Good waitress! I certainly support such a reasoned opinion, but as the Committee on Economic Affairs did, I see the problem of the reasons that we give in this opinion being legally weak and round. Are they going to go over and make them better so that we don't go out with such a soft opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U70	I do not agree that they are weak. This option is a golden midway. We could have just sent three lines, saying that this is not acceptable to us, and we could have made a 100-page statement that no one would possibly have bothered to read. So we made this draft decision on a very reasonable length of one page. The message arrives, it's read, and it's basically written. As I said in my opening remarks, no amendments were received from political groups or committees. The Riigikogu's working bodies must have found it sufficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U71	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U72	Good waitress! As I understand from your report, 16 Estonian stock exchange companies would be affected by the directive, quite little. I mean, they wouldn't have any particular problems, and neither would the Estonian state budget and the Estonian people. I do not know whether such a'reasoned opinion' is so well founded. Is it even worth discussing this matter so much that there is, in fact, a redistribution of a large market in the European Union? It doesn't really concern us, does it? What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U73	I agree that there are more important problems in Europe and Estonia than this, but it is now a matter of principle rather than of specific sums of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U74	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U75	Good waitress! My question to you is somewhat wider, not only than to the Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs. More generally, this concerns directives, proposals and regulations of the European Union. Our committee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has recently come with a number of regulations and directives. The last directive concerns the elections to the European Parliament, which is about making the elections even more transparent. It seems to us in the Commission that more and more attempts are being made to regulate matters which do not fall within the remit of the European Commission, the European Union's competence. That is what Igor Gräzin asked for when the specific bill was being discussed. How do you feel when you put the question the way Igor Gräzin put it: does the European Union stick its nose where it has no business?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U76	I don't think that's actually a very sharp problem. As has been said, we are discussing such a draft for the first time before the Riigikogu plenary. Our starting point is usually that we recognise that the European Union can introduce such regulations in different areas, but there are differences of opinion on content. Perhaps the problem has gotten a little worse; indeed, there are more of these proposals in recent times. If you look for reasons, in a year's time, there will be elections to the European Parliament, there will be an end to the parliamentary term, there will be something else to do, there will be a trail left behind, something to push through quickly and forcefully. This is in some ways reasonable, but we must be more critical of these initiatives in the Member States.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U77	Thank you. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U78	Good waitress! My question is motivated by the question of the previous questioner. How do you, as chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs, see this? Prior to these directives, there will be policy papers, green and white papers, where both Member States and different organisations in the Member States will be able to express their views in order to shape these directives of their own accord. Has there been a lively debate on this issue? And is Estonia even an active player in the final design of the directives?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U79	When we are talking about a specific area, the European Union has, in fact, been trying to reduce the administrative burden on businesses and bureaucratic obligations for quite a number of years. The same Accounting Directive, which is currently under discussion in the European Union, is also designed to reduce administrative burdens. And now all of a sudden, without any previous political dialogues, the opposite is the proposal to add certain responsibilities. That's a bit of a messy story, isn't it? In general, I think that, given the size and capabilities of Estonia, we have been active enough on these directives or on green and white books. We always have our own positions. It is not here that I am fighting against the European Union. In Estonia's interest, there has been a political consensus in general. We are very pro-European, we are in favour of a strong European Union, but we love that there are specific rules and certain limits that are not transcended. By doing so, we would destroy the same well-functioning European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U80	No further questions. Thank you, Arto Aas! I'm opening negotiations. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U81	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen. I'm asking for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U82	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U83	The Social Democrats disagree with the positions of the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the publication of information on non-financial and diversity in the annual accounts of large companies. The reasons given by the government are chauvinistic demagoguery, to put it mildly. And what to expect of a government far from diversity. Of our 13 ministers, there is only one woman, there is no other mother tongue minister, there is talk of geographical or national differences, and half of the ministers are 34 to 39 years old. The Government of the Republic shall justify the non-supporting of the draft directive by stating that the obligation for companies to provide an overview of the firm's assets and liabilities, financial position and profit or loss is a sufficient measure to protect the lasting interests of capital companies. It is questionable whether the obligation to disclose non-financial information would further protect these interests. However, the explanatory memorandum to the directive answers this question. It confirms that in company boards with similar educational and professional backgrounds, geographical origin, age or gender, narrow group thinking may dominate. This may result in a lack of effective criticism of management decisions. The lack of differing views, values and competences can lead to a reduction in debate, ideas and objections on boards. Does it sound familiar when you think about what our government is doing? For me, yeah. I would like to use the words of Mari-Liis Lille right here on the speaker's desk. Looking at our government, I ask again: what is wrong with this picture? The fact that the government relies, among other things, on the opinion of the board of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Of the 15 members of that board, only one is a woman. To be honest, ladies and gentlemen, when I came to this Riigikogu two and a half years ago, I had no intention of dealing with the issue of equality. But I also had no idea that I was constantly in contact with chauvinism and positions from the last century. So, unfortunately, I just can't shut up. Gentlemen, laughter! However, the Ministry of Social Affairs supports the implementation of this directive, whose tasks include promoting gender balance and addressing the issue of yawning pay gap in Estonia. Of course, the government does not consider the opinion of specialists to be anything. Nor is it the government's view that the provision of this information could be regulated at national level and optional for companies. In particular, the European Commission's impact analysis points to the fact that on average only 6% of large companies disclose non-financial information each year, and this varies widely across Member States. The same applies to Estonian companies. Thus, it is not possible to achieve the equivalence and comparability of information through self-regulation. At the same time, the interest of stakeholders in non-financial transparency is growing year-on-year, together with the increase in people's awareness and the development of society. This is also the case in Estonia. It is not right that the collection and provision of additional information in the annual report would be a financial burden on companies and would hinder the day-to-day economic activity. The obligation to provide additional information would only arise for very large companies with more than 500 employees and a balance sheet total of more than 20 million euros. Businesses of this size have acquired proper economic software and there is also a proper financial service, whose workload in collecting these data would not increase to a particular extent if regulations were already in place. They wouldn't make a hole in their wallet, either. Nor is it a competent claim that this is an excessive interference with the sovereignty of companies that violates the principles of subsidiarity. Compliance with the Directive requires only the provision of data, which does not mean new rules on staff composition or compliance with environmental requirements. At the same time, the European Union's so-called positive intervention in the activities of companies has long been allowed by its compliance with climate policy. This would not be a precedent. The Social Democrats believe that, like the European Union's climate and energy policy, including the provision of energy-saving directives, environmental and labour-related issues must also be taken seriously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U84	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no more calls. No amendments to the draft decision were received. The commission's proposal is to adopt draft 445 as a decision. Let us move to preparing the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Committee on European Union Affairs, 'A reasoned opinion to the President of the European Parliament and the Commission and to the President of the Council of the European Union on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC as regards disclosure of non-financial and diversity information by large companies and groups of companies, non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity', draft 445. Please take a stand and vote. 54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 23 against and 2 abstentions. The draft decision has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U85	We will go to today's second item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and members of the Riigikogu, Rainer Vakra, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laanet and Deniss Borodichi. Ms Maret Maripuu, member of the Social Affairs Committee, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party Group and Rainer Vakra, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laaneti and Deniss Borodichi. a The first reading of the Act amending the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, which was initiated on 20 March, was completed on 14 May. No proposals were tabled by the deadline of 28 May at 5.15 p.m. After completion of the first reading of the draft, the Committee on Social Affairs met at two meetings to discuss the draft and prepare the second reading, on 6 June and 11 June. Reet Kodu, Legal Adviser at the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Kaili Didrichson, analyst at the Ministry's Welfare Department, also took part in the meetings. The Committee on Social Affairs has decided to make two amendments, let me introduce them. Amendment 1 amends the title of the draft. The initiators of the draft act wished to amend section 2 (6) of the Act amending the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, adopted on 14 December 2012, which supplements the Social Welfare Act. According to § 4 (2) of the Act, § 2 (6) entered into force on 1 June this year. As the second reading of the draft will take place on 18 June, it will no longer be possible to amend the law amending the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. It is correct to amend the Social Welfare Act. The second amendment amends the Social Welfare Act and gives it the date of entry into force. The amendment of § 225 (1) of the Social Welfare Act allows all families with children receiving income support to receive needs-based family support. This means that families with children whose income in the three months preceding the application for the allowance was higher than the income limit of the allowance are also entitled to need-based family allowance, but whose housing costs have been so high that the family received income support in the month preceding the application for the family allowance. Applying for needs-based family benefit is based on receiving income support in the previous month, not in the same month, as it may not yet be known whether the family receives income support for the same month when applying for and determining the need-based family benefit. The amendment to § 225 (3) of the Social Welfare Act specifies that the calculation of one month's average income relates to cases where the grant of need-based family benefit is based on the fact that the net family income in one month is on average below the income limit of the need-based family allowance. If the need-based family allowance is granted because the family received income support in the previous month, the calculation of the average monthly income on the basis of the three-month net incomes preceding the application shall not apply. The amendment to Paragraph 226 (5) of the Social Welfare Act specifies that when applying for a need-based family allowance, documents certifying the net income received and the amount of maintenance paid during the three months preceding the application must be submitted only if the need-based family allowance is applied for because the net income of the family is, on average, below the income limit of the need-based family allowance in one month. If the need-based application for family benefit is based on the fact that the family received income support in the previous month, it is not necessary to submit the net income received during the previous three months and documents certifying the amount of maintenance paid. Amendment 2 complements the draft with the new § 2, according to which amendments to the Social Welfare Act will enter into force on 1 January 2014. Changes in the right of all families with children receiving income support to receive needs-based family support mean that further IT development work is needed. The latter take time and therefore this amendment cannot enter into force before 1 January 2014. These amendments were also discussed with representatives of the Cities Association and the Association of Rural Governments who supported it. I would also like to thank the initiators for their pleasant cooperation. Finally, the Committee on Social Affairs decided to propose to the Bureau that the draft be sent to the plenary session by 18 June. a and stop second reading. The Committee also decided to propose that, when the second reading of the draft was completed, the third reading be carried out on 20 June and that the draft be adopted as a law. The Commission's decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U87	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U88	Good waitress! We can read from the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the bill that, when you were convened, representatives of the Ministry, the Cities Association and Emor met on 22 May, in addition to the members of the Commission. What were their views on this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U89	Support.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U90	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U91	Indeed, this procedure has excited many organisations, and they have expressed their opinions, just like other people who are looking forward to this law, such as those who support applications. My question is about changes to the S.T.A.R. program. The people who are waiting for applications to be filed are critical. For example, local government associations have also asked us why these changes to STAR have gone so slowly so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U92	This was not discussed in the Commission, but information technology is a complex field and the Ministry of Social Affairs has had sad experiences with IT developments. I'm sure they want to make sure there's no failure, which is why the date of entry into force is like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U93	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U94	Honourable waitress! In order to receive needs-based family support, the family needs to prove properly that it really needs this help. Have you calculated how much it will cost the family to prove it? How much time and money will it take?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U95	No such calculation has been made, but I dare say it doesn't take enough time to make it a problem. And it doesn't take any money at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U96	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U97	Dear waitress, I understand from the amendments that IT development has been carried out in order to implement needs-based family support and that more needs to be done in order for the law to enter into force. How much funding for IT development has the need-based family support led to?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U98	The need-based law on family support was adopted last year and the draft included the amount of money needed for the relevant IT developments. I don't have this paper on me and I don't have it in my head, so I can't tell you how much it cost. Nor can I say the exact amount that will be needed for further development.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U99	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U100	Dear waitress, The amendment of the Social Welfare Act allows all families with children receiving income support to receive needs-based family support. But I wondered why, during the reform of the need-based family support in the government coalition, it was decided at first to exclude these families from those in need, so it was only now the conviction that this was a mistake. Why wasn't it immediately supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U101	The initiators of the draft proposed to extend the range of need-based family benefits, and the Committee on Social Affairs supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U102	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U103	Honourable waitress! Will these expenses be kept secret? If not, where or in what way should people receive an exhaustive answer to their expenses in the event of a fully justified interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U104	I'm sure they won't be a secret. If I get out of this remote control, I'm gonna take a look at this number and let you know, so you don't have to live in ignorance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U105	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U106	Honourable waitress! I, too, want to pay tribute to the pleasant cooperation in the process of handling this draft and taking into account the proposals. However, it is also a good example in this sense that it leads to the idea that cooperation could have already been achieved in the adoption of the amendments to the National Family Benefits Act which the Coalition has proposed. These proposals could have been taken into account immediately. During the night sessions, it was also spoken from the remote. The reason we came up with this bill in the first place was because the least insured would have lost that money. I have no question, just as a comment, that cooperation was very pleasant.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U107	For my part, I can admit the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U108	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U109	Good waitress! This draft seeks to help one of the contingents, namely those families whose income is above the limit of relative poverty, but who are left with an amount below the limit of subsistence for the deduction of living expenses. Do you know how many people there are? What is the target group of the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U110	During the discussion at the Commission, according to the Ministry of Social Affairs, there were 20 families.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U111	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U112	Good waitress! Since you are one of the authors of the need-based idea of family support, I am very skeptical about this because the amount is very small, is it known if there has been any feedback from people? Are they still waiting for this law and satisfied with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U113	People are satisfied with this and applications are currently under way. These statements have already been received in almost all municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U114	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U115	Honourable waitress! Actually, there are costs. These applications are accompanied by a bus ride to the municipal administration. My question, however, is: what will become better as a result of your cooperation with the Socialists in the Committee on Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U116	As a result, one group of people who are entitled to need-based family benefits will be added.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U117	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U118	Good waitress! This is once again a law that is created for a rather small target group of 20 families. We have developed a situation where we often make laws that affect quite a small number of people. Is it not because officials have been deprived of their discretion? Is it not possible to resolve such issues without changing the law? There should be some discretion, however, but we are trying to make our legal space as over-regulated and complex as possible, so that there is a separate law for absolutely every individual case. Do you think it is, or is it different?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U119	I don't see it that bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U120	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U121	Dear waitress, When I look at the entry into force of this law, the date is January 1st, 2014. This year, these families will probably lose this family allowance. Representatives of local governments and the Ministry of Social Affairs were also involved in this draft procedure. Was it discussed in the committee that local governments could have some kind of right to grant certain additional support to these families so that they could receive some compensation for what was not done for them here in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U122	This was not discussed in the Commission, but local authorities have the right to allocate as many grants as they want to their residents.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U123	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U124	Honourable waitress! I have a question about need-based family support. It is known that fewer than 1,000 families have gone to apply for this support, and we also know that over 60,000 children live in poverty. If this is the kind of support that children have to go into poverty first, the whole family has to be in poverty first, and then you have to go, hat in hand, ask for money, don't you think it's embarrassing for these people to do it? In most cases, these applicants are women. It's a very humiliating job, you may get a minimum wage, you raise children alone, and then you have to go to the nine euros municipal government to ask for it, proving with all the documents that you are living below the limit of relative poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U125	At present, it is also necessary to go to the local government to receive income support and submit an application. And we both know that subsidies will double as of 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U126	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U127	Dear waitress, My second question is a follow-up to the first question. You said that if the local government wanted to do so, it could support all families, as the Council has confirmed in its regulations. I am still asking about the mistake that has arisen in this Chamber, which has left some families without additional support. Is the Ministry of Social Affairs prepared to support local authorities with additional financial resources so that they can provide support to families that were excluded from the list due to this failure?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U128	I wouldn't call it a failure, it's an extension of the need-based family benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U129	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U130	I have to admit that the figures that heljo Pikhof just mentioned were not exactly in my head, but in fact, I think this is a pretty bad sign. If there is some kind of support that helps to ease daily living, and so little is sought, do you not think that this is a sign that much help does not come from there and people will rather give up and do not go asking for nine euros?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U131	Applications were accepted on 1 June and can be submitted until the end of June. Today, on the basis of these few days, it is premature to draw conclusions; we have only received the first figures.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U132	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U133	Good waitress! In response to Mr Pikhof's question, you said that, as the law states, the need-based family allowance will double in 2015. Can you be sure and can you confirm from this remote control to us, colleagues and the public that your coalition government will not reverse or reverse this law before 2015, so that from 2015 the family allowance will really double?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U134	Yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U135	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U136	Good performer! That law was passed a long time ago. We are talking about need-based support. Didn't you first see the need to expand this circle? I wish I could have put this target group in right away. I have another question, too. Has there been any talk in the Commission to expand this circle yet further? The latest statistics on poverty were once again very sad.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U137	We did not discuss this in the Commission. We wait for the number of applications to be made for need-based family support. From 1 July, it will be paid out. After that, conclusions can be drawn.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U138	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U139	Good waitress! Amendment 2 complements the draft with the new § 2, according to which amendments to the Social Welfare Act will enter into force on 1 January 2014. The entry into force of the Bill as a law is postponed as the amendment of the Act entails the need for further development of information technology. You certainly discussed this thoroughly in the Commission. Can some children now lose their support because of IT developments? How do these IT developments affect the payment of child benefit?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U140	The payment of the need-based family allowance starts on 1 July and everyone who is entitled to it under the law also receives it. As the beneficiaries of the draft under discussion will be expanded, this IT development will only affect new applications.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U141	Thank you. Mailis Reps, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U142	Good waitress! The IT experience related to the social welfare system has been quite contradictory, some programmes have been successful and some have been slightly less successful. Is this a system that does not have to be completely redesigned when some of the changes that social workers need to make their work easier?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U143	I don't dare answer for IT people here at the Ministry of Social Affairs. I've had some sad experiences in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U144	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Maret Maripuu! I'm opening negotiations. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U145	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! With the Bill 399 the Social Democrats and Democrats of the Riigikogu wish to extend the circle of need-based family benefits to families whose income exceeds the limit of relative poverty, but who, after paying their housing expenses, will have an amount that is below the limit of subsistence. Therefore, our aim is to eliminate a situation where needs-based family support does not reach all families receiving income support. It is sad that the current universal child benefit is included in the family's income when it comes to the provision of income support and, of course, that the limit on relative poverty is so low. I would like to remind you that if we now have a limit on relative poverty of EUR 280 per person per month, for example, for two adults and two families with children under the age of 14, this will only amount to EUR 588. Our clever odds are based on the fact that the husband eats half the family head, the family's second adult coefficient in this formula is 0.5, and the children's mouth is more likely to have a wall crack of 0.3. For example, a woman working on a minimum wage and raising one or two children alone may lose needs-based family support. What makes it pretty bad, however, is that the current EUR 19 child allowance can be a weight language that makes the family living from party to mouth wipe their mouths out of income support. The amount of child benefit received from the state is also included in the income of the family when the income support is granted. If those in need were really wanted to be helped, we could have started by not adding child benefits to the family's income. It is this proposal that has been presented five times by the Social Democrats to the proceedings of the Riigikogu and that the government coalition has rejected it five times. True, new and needs-based child benefits have been excluded from this dual scheme. In other words, a child's so-called need-based tenement would be left to the family, while a universal EUR 19 allowance could deprive the family of both this and the income support at all. The Social Democrats believe that child benefits must remain universal. Otherwise, the state would label the children and show that some children are more welcome in our land of little birth than the other. This is child support, it is not poverty-related support, and having a child must not be a sign of poverty in Estonia. In the eyes of the state, all children must be equally wanted and expected. When paying different amounts of parental benefit, the state already declares that some children are worth more than others. Such an attitude is disastrous. Social Democrats have repeatedly proposed to triple child support. The lion's share of our children, roughly 250,000, is growing in single- and two-child families. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U146	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U147	In all development plans, the government expects the birth rate to be 1.71 by 2015. It is a sad fact that in 2010, a statistically 1.64 children were born per woman of childbearing potential, but the corresponding figure for 2012 is projected to be less than 1.5. Iive continues to decline despite the fact that we have about 200,000 women in the best birth age, and this figure is now at the top. In the next few decades, this figure will decrease by 70,000. The most burning concern in Estonia is that even the first children will not be born into the family, although the ideal is still two or three children. Studies show that having children is being postponed mainly because there is no confidence that children will be able to grow up decently, to provide them with modern education. Among economic migrants from Estonia too, the most numerous are the young people who are the best able to live. The reform of this so-called child support can be broadly summarised in this way. First we let the family with our children fall into poverty, then we force him, in his hand, to go to the municipality to prove his misery again and again, and then, from this summer, there is the hope that the first and second child of the family will be given ten euros per six extra national purses. So far, nine euros have been asking for a fraction of parents, namely 938 parents. Believe me, those who have to go to the municipality to prove their family poverty are mostly mothers, women. Pretty sure they live up to this humiliation, you raise children, you work, and you still have to ask for poverty support from the parish house to get the kids to wear their necks. In particular, the implementation of needs-based child support in southern Europe illustrates how to overcome the high birth rate in the short term. On the contrary, the Nordic countries, where all children receive support from the state. The principle of this payment is that all children are important to the state. The costs of raising each child are included, and the state must do everything in its power to prevent the family with children from falling into poverty and being forced to apply for income support by paying child benefit and providing children with a day-care place and free education of interest and school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U148	Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U149	Madam President, thank you very much. I'm not gonna talk for long, so I probably don't need three more minutes. You know, I wasn't planning on coming here, but every time we talk about child support here, I get sick. We have many children in the Riigikogu, and we know on our own that giving birth and raising children in Estonia is not "in." If you give birth to a lot of children, you're not very successful, not very smart, like you're smarter to do, you probably don't have electricity at home, and whatever. It is a laughing point, as Mr Palo would say, but it is. And unfortunately, the signals sent to society by the Riigikogu, setting up nine euros of child support, strongly support this derogatory attitude towards women who have the courage and backbone to give birth to children. We're talking about ah, support doubles. But why aren't we really talking about the sum? It is currently planned at EUR 9; next year it will be EUR 18. You know, I really don't know what to say. My grandfather once told me about his pension: "I'm gonna buy a cart, I'm gonna start hauling money. " Where could I invest 18 euros well? Who gives me advice? All of us women know what costs apples, grapes, rubbers, panties, whatever. There's nothing you can do with that money. With this money, you can't buy food for a family if it's a decent food, no, I don't know, oatmeal. Although oatmeal is also very expensive for fun, it costs almost two euros. I just want to say that when we talk about child benefits, we are extremely hypocritical. We have few children, we must support their birth, not label families who dare to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U150	Thank you. Any more calls? There's no more calls. Let us examine the amendments, there are two, and both have been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs. Amendment 1, the proposal of the commission is to take this fully into account. Amendment 2, the proposal of the lead committee is also to take full account of this. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 399. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U151	We are going to the third item on today's agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Employment Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act 427 initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. I would like to present a speech chair for a member of the Social Affairs Committee, Reet Roos.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U152	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the preparation for the second reading of the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Amending Act on Unemployment Insurance 427 on 11 June 2013. Mrs Marina Jefrosinina, the main specialist of the Social Security Department, participated in the debate at the Ministry of Social Affairs. The deadline for tabling amendments, which was s. a 10 June at 2 p.m., no amendments were received. However, corrections by the language editor have been introduced into the text of the second reading of the draft. The Commission approved the draft text and explanatory memorandum at second reading and decided to send draft law 427 to second reading in the plenary room today. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading and, once the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading on 20 June and adopt the draft as a law. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U153	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U154	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear waitress, On the second point on today's agenda, we found that the Commission, on its own initiative, was accompanied by partners other than the Ministry. I am thinking of the Association of Estonian Cities as well as the Association of Estonian Rural Governments. Were organisations from outside the Ministry or Parliament, such as trade unions, the Confederation of Employers, the unemployment fund, etc., involved in the procedure for this draft, be it at first reading or second reading? If we did not include it in the Explanatory Memorandum, for what reason did we not include it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U155	The Commission did not involve partners because this draft is urgent and the draft itself is quite clear and straightforward. That is why we did not consider it necessary to involve partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U156	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U157	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You said very nicely that the bill is clear and straight, but would you open it up a little bit? What will be better now for labour market services and support?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U158	Thank you. I opened the bill at first reading, but I am happy to repeat it. Indeed, nothing will change for the better, but the former situation will recover, which on 1 April, suddenly, can even be said to have changed because of a minor error.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U159	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U160	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You certainly discussed the issue of labour market measures and support for men in the Commission's Defence Forces service at large. Can this issue arise from another corner, in a situation where women step by step enter the military service? In today's papers, we can read how this is an important topic in Estonia in the long term. Did you discuss this in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U161	Thank you, good questioner! We did not discuss this in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U162	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Reet Roos! Is there a negotiation request? There's no call. No amendments to this draft have been tabled. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of draft 427. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U163	Let us go to today's fourth item, which is the second reading of the draft law on the protection of ambient air initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I would like to present a speech chair to Kaja Kreisman, member of the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of draft law 434 on the amendment of the law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws was completed in this Chamber on 22 May 2013 and the deadline for submitting amendments was fixed at ten working days. The amendment was received by the Social Democratic Party Group within the deadline set. During the period between the first and second reading of the draft, the Commission addressed the draft on one occasion, at its meeting on 10 June, where the position on the proposal of the Social Democrats was established and the proposals submitted by the Estonian Renewable Energy Chamber of the NGO were reviewed. Jörgen Talkop, Head of Climate and Radiation Department of the Ministry of the Environment, took part in the Commission meeting and gave explanations. One amendment proposed to amend Paragraph 1194 (8) of the Ambient Air Protection Act, as set out in § 1 (14) of the draft, so that 100% of the revenues from auctioning allowances would be used instead of at least 50% of those set out in the draft to finance greenhouse gas emission targets. In addition, it was proposed to remove from the draft a provision linking renewable energy development to a 25% share by 2020. The author of the amendment has considered it necessary that all EU emissions trading revenues be used exclusively to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and this objective is met only by an unlimited increase in the share of renewable energy in the energy portfolio. There was a lively debate in the Commission and various arguments for and against it were considered. The representative of the Ministry of the Environment explained that the original wording of the draft would give the State greater flexibility in the use of the revenue generated and pointed out that the wording would not prohibit the use of the revenue to achieve the environmental objectives of 100% either. Estonia is known to invest heavily in renewable energy and energy efficiency up to 2017. Thus, the annual process of drawing up the state budget is the one where the final decision is made on where to channel the money, and that makes sense. For example, this year's quota sales revenue goes through KredEx to heat homes. On the basis of the above, the Committee on the Environment rejected the amendment. The Commission also discussed three proposals made by the Estonian Renewable Energy Board. Two of these were in line with the above-mentioned proposals of the Social Democratic Party Group and were not supported. The third proposal concerned the need to pay attention to the channelling of financial resources to promote small-scale renewable energy solutions, small-scale solar panels and collectors, as the Government of the Republic has currently not planned to channel resources for this purpose in the energy sector during the 2014-20 budget period. This proposal was unanimously supported by the Commission and an amendment to this effect was also finalised. There have been technical and linguistic changes between the two readings, which in no case alter the substance of the draft. The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu decided to propose to the Riigikogu to refer the draft to second reading, to conclude it today, and, if the second reading is completed, to send the draft to third reading on 20 June and adopt the law. These decisions were taken by the Commission in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U165	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The proposal of the Environment Committee amends Paragraph 1 (14) of §1194 (8) (2) of the Environmental Protection Act, adding that the important objective is to promote small renewable energy solutions. What specific changes will the separate introduction of small solutions in the draft text bring to consumers in particular?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U167	This was not discussed by the Commission and, in fact, the original wording of this point did not prohibit the channelling of financial resources into small-scale solutions either. In the Commission, it was simply found that it would be fair to emphasise this in particular and to give certainty to the developers of small solutions. The financial issues were not addressed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U168	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U169	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned a social partner in this draft, the Estonian Renewable Energy Koda. Were there other social partners who expressed their opinion, or did you not ask for their opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U170	In general, there is no interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U171	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Kaja Kreisman! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Two amendments have been received. The first is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. The second is from the Committee on the Environment; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 434. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U172	We are going to the fifth item on today's agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the obligation to leave and ban on entry initiated by the Government of the Republic and the European Union citizen's law. To present the speech chair, Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U173	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has initiated a draft law amending the law on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry and the European Union citizen's law, which specifies the regulation of the obligation of departure of an illegally staying alien. The requirements and procedures for returning illegally staying foreigners in the Member States are the result of the so-called Return Directive, which was transposed into Estonian law on 25 December 2010. The European Commission has recommended that the existing regulation be supplemented, in particular, so that an alien can understand, on the basis of one law, the legal effect of staying in Estonia without a legal basis without any further difficulty. These changes have been negotiated with the European Commission in the framework of the consultation procedure, and the Estonian representation of the International Organisation for Migration and the Estonian Red Cross have also been involved. The amendments concern, in particular, the detention of an alien, the application of an exit ban and the granting of state legal aid. As a general principle, the draft stipulates that detention of an alien is permitted where the application of supervisory measures does not ensure the effectiveness of his/her expulsion. In particular, a foreigner may be detained if there is a risk that he or she may escape if the return documents necessary for his or her return are delayed from the host country or if the alien fails to comply with the obligation to assist. There will continue to be a fundamental regime under which the administrative body responsible for expulsion is obliged to apply for permission from the administrative court to apprehend an alien for more than 48 hours. Estonia has established a special detention centre for the detention of expelled persons, located in Harku rural municipality. Consequently, the European Commission has taken the view that detention of an alien in or outside detention centres for more than 48 hours is justified only in exceptional circumstances. As a result, the possibility of detention for up to 30 days in a police detention facility as an alternative to dispatch is also abolished. An important change concerns state legal aid. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union obliges the granting of state aid to all persons who themselves lack financial resources. The draft therefore provides that an alien may apply for state legal aid in the absence of funds in accordance with the procedures laid down in the State Legal Aid Act in order to challenge a decision on the application of a letter of departure, expulsion or refusal of entry. The law is scheduled to enter into force on 1 October next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U174	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U175	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. This law creates a rather favourable ground to exploit the system. Of course, it can be hoped that third-country nationals will voluntarily leave the country with a return decision. But where is this obligation written down, and how is it secured? How can it be ruled out that persons do not move from Estonia to other Schengen countries, i.e. do not use Estonia as an oak country?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U176	Thank you for your question. What you are asking for is guaranteed by Estonian law. As you know, we also adopted a legislative amendment last week, which Parliament was dealing with this spring. Its purpose is to specify the legal bases for illegally staying in Estonia in particular. In my opinion, this draft, which is in front of you today, does not contribute in any way to what you are saying, i.e. that Estonia could be abused. On the contrary, with recent changes, we have rather ensured that Estonia is not used as a transit country. If so, there will be every opportunity to detain these persons and to expel them. As I mentioned, the detention centre in Harku is precisely designed to allow foreigners who have arrived illegally in Estonia to be detained there. At the same time, Estonia is one of the leading Member States of the European Union, where everyone is subject to judicial supervision. The administrative court shall authorise the detention of a person for more than 48 hours. I therefore think that the rights of persons are sufficiently guaranteed here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U177	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U178	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The seventh part of the explanatory memorandum is entitled "Activities, expected costs and revenues of the State and local government involved in the implementation of the Law'. I further find in the text that the costs necessary for the implementation of the law are covered by the budget of the respective government agencies and the costs of developing information systems are covered by the budget of the Police and Border Guard Board. Will the budget of these government agencies also cover the possible costs of local governments, or will it happen again that, if any such costs arise, the local government should see for itself how it manages? It is not clear from the explanatory memorandum whether the costs of local governments are also covered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U179	I can't even imagine what local government expenses you mean. The explanatory memorandum specifically states with regard to costs that the additional costs that may be incurred will be borne by the State and, in particular, by the Police and Border Guard Board. As you can see, information technology development is also described here, particularly in relation to the information system of the Citizenship and Migration Board. So the institution in charge of one function or another will also cover the cost. It has been pointed out here that expenditure is included in the key of the state budget within the meaning of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U180	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U181	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, As we know, the Constitution allows every Estonian to live in Estonia. At the same time, we have a certain number of Estonians who are third-country nationals, such as the Estonians of Abkhazia, who have Russian citizenship. If we take them as third-country nationals, what will we do with them? Let's say that the ethnic Estonian who is a Russian citizen is in this country without a residence permit, what are we going to do with this person in the light of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U182	The purpose of this draft is, as I said, to clarify the obligation for an alien to leave, in particular as a result of the European Commission's precepts, which have been discussed in the context of consultations. This bill has no greater ambition.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U183	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U184	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The draft law states that all relevant facts and legitimate interests will be considered in each individual case when writing an exit letter. That's pretty vague. What are the important factors that are legitimate interests and what will this process even look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U185	You are asking such an vague question, Mr Stalnukhin, that I would recommend you simply read the law. The law states everything in detail and precisely. As I have explained, the Return Directive is the directive that we have taken into account in the draft recommendations and precepts. Point 6 of the draft provides for the publication of the legal basis in the recital in the letter of departure and sets out in seven paragraphs the circumstances in which the letter of departure was made, which considerations are taken into account, for example the risk of an alien fleeing, having provided false information in the procedure for obtaining a residence permit or international protection, poses a threat to public policy and national security, etc. Each particular case shall be considered separately, the different bases shall be considered and evaluated in the light of the specific measure to be taken. As I mentioned, the grounds for detention are also precisely laid down in the law. In addition, point 8 provides at least seven grounds for the immediate execution of the mandatory period for voluntary discharge of the obligation to leave and of the letter of departure. Here too, there are very different possibilities, including the possibility of sending a foreigner out immediately. So trying to rewrite the whole law by answering one question isn't the easiest thing to do. I think you can familiarize yourself with this law and you can certainly provide details during the procedure of the draft if there are any doubts referred to in your first question that this draft, or even Estonian laws, in any way facilitate the movement of persons who have arrived illegally in Estonia into the Schengen area. I can assure you that our efforts are exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U186	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U187	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In answering my first question, you asked a rhetorical question as to what local government costs I mean. I don't mean any costs, but you, as the initiator's representative, are on this board and the initiator has named 'Activities, expected costs and revenues of the state and local government involved in the implementation of the Law'. That is why I am asking what are the activities of the local government, which involve costs and where these costs are covered. So I'm asking the originator. I don't know what the cost is, the initiator has put it under the title.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U188	Thank you very much. The answer is that expenditure is covered by the budgets of the respective government agencies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U189	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U190	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. If there is a basis for expulsion provided for in this bill, the Police and Border Guard Board or the Defence Police Department will detain an alien and arrange for him to leave Estonia. I ask you to explain a little how the Police and Border Guard Board or the Defence Police Department will organise this departure from Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U191	Thank you for your question. The Department of Police and Border Guard has the competence to organise departures and the relevant structural units are available for this purpose. This person shall be transferred to the detention centre. As has been said, in the detention centre, a person can be detained for more than 48 hours with the permission of the administrative court. On this basis, various legal procedural steps begin in order to expel the person. There is also a separate addition to the fact that, after six months, detention is permitted if the return documents are delayed or the person fails to comply with the obligation to assist, but it is not possible to detain for more than 18 months from the date of detention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U192	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U193	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of the Interior! I have in my hands a draft explanatory statement which has implications for national security and external relations. It refers to the fact that non-compliance with the European Union's obligations may lead to sanctions in the long term. There is a strong impression that we are trying to please the European Union, but what about our own internal security after the adoption of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U194	Thank you for your question. I dare confirm that our own internal security trends are positive. This means that the more precise and clearer the legislation is, the more compliance with it will be ensured. As regards the sentence on which you are asking, failure to comply with the European Union's obligations can simply lead to infringement proceedings. There is a reference here to the prevention of infringement procedures when Parliament adopts this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U195	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U196	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I still didn't get an answer to my question, so I'm gonna try again. Purely practically, if we have a third-country national illegally staying in Estonia, who is an ethnic Estonian, will he then go under this law or will we follow the Constitution that allows every Estonian to live in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U197	That is quite, I dare say, a multi-layered question. If it is an Estonian citizen, there are certainly several provisions in the Estonian Constitution that make the treatment of our citizens, the protection of them very clearly a priority for the Estonian state, there is no question at all. This law concerns persons who have arrived illegally in Estonia and their treatment, the issuing of expulsion orders, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U198	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U199	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister, thank you very much. I ask about paragraph 31 of the draft law, according to which § 265 is supplemented by certain paragraphs. It states that if the person to be expelled is subject to compulsory schooling, he or she will be given access to education in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act. In our country, the primary school and upper secondary school law obliges local governments to provide this education. Thus, the burden falls specifically on local authorities. The explanatory memorandum does not explain what this process is, how the training takes place, in which language, how the need for the school education of this subject is identified, etc. Could you describe a little bit of this whole process?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U200	Thank you for your question. With regard to this provision, it can only be said that the obligation to ensure access to education, where appropriate, is again the result of the Return Directive. I dare not tell you at this time how many cases there have been that a minor who has arrived in Estonia illegally needs to have access to education, which means that he or she is staying in Estonia long enough. This is the responsibility of the local government and it must be treated as such. No additional burden-sharing or additional revenue is foreseen for this purpose. Therefore, no reference is made to this in the explanatory memorandum. Just as it is, European precepts, regulations lay down the obligation to ensure that a minor who is subject to school access to education, and this is certainly the responsibility of our country and, in this case, of the municipalities. I dare say that there are very few such cases, if any, and probably there will not be many in the future, at least not in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U201	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U202	This draft refers to the procedural rules on how the refusal of entry is implemented and removals are organised, what are the bases here, etc. Once again, this draft does not deal with detention conditions, how everything should be organised. But your comment is basically justified. It is possible that we should go on the ground to see what this restructuring system looks like, whether the rules or rules that we have approved and which should be in force are actually being followed. But so far we have not discussed it in the Commission; we did not discuss it in the process of supplementing this draft. Since this is only the first reading, it is possible that this issue will arise and we will come back to it sometime.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U203	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Rait Maruse! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 444. First reading is complete. The deadline for submitting amendments to the 444 draft is s. august 19th at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U204	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Article 7 (1) of the Directive requires the return decision to provide for an appropriate period of 7 to 30 days for voluntary departure. In which case is the deadline for voluntary departure set at 7 days and in which case 30 days, and on what depends? Who determines this, and what is the basis for this appointment?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U205	Thank you for your question. That depends on the particular case. There is also a more flexible option for setting the deadline, from the minimum time to the maximum time. I think it is well-founded that the law is flexible, because cases and cases may be different.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U206	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U207	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We are living in the times of directives, and more and more are coming every day. Do the other Member States of the European Union have the same rules that we are discussing here today, or do they have something different?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U208	Thank you for your question. All Member States comply with the same Return Directive. It is a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 and its official name is 'on common standards and procedures in the Member States for returning illegally staying third-country nationals'.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U209	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U210	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I'm asking you about the Yana Toom question and your answer, which I didn't understand or confused. I will still ask the same question again and put it this way: will an ethnic Estonian who is not Estonian citizenship and who has arrived here illegally be sent away from home under this law, or how will such a situation be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U211	I therefore ask in return: for what reason should the ethnic Estonian arrive in Estonia illegally?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U212	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U213	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'll take it from here. If the person to be expelled is subject to compulsory education and this person is taken to school, the local authorities concerned must make any changes to their school arrangements. This obviously concerns a small number of local authorities, namely those involved in the location of the expulsions. Have you spoken to the representatives of these local governments, local authorities at all, when drafting this bill? What do they think? What are their considerations, and what do they require to comply with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U214	Thank you, Mrs Luigas, for the question. We certainly have the opportunity to address this issue, which is, I dare say, a fairly theoretical one at the moment, as I said, which is again the result of the European Union directive, in the course of the procedure. As can be seen, the law will only enter into force on 1 October 2014. Why is it in front of Parliament today? Again, on the basis of consultations with the European Union. We wanted to show the active role of the Member State in taking into account the precepts agreed upon on the basis of the consultations. That is why the draft is before you today at first reading. At second reading, we can also address the issue you mentioned and listen to the opinion of the local authorities on what support is needed to fulfil this obligation. I repeat the idea that these cases are likely to be very rare, but it is well-founded to hear those concerned. Thank you for bringing this to my attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U215	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U216	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! In answering Peter Võsa's question, what happens when an ethnic Estonian comes to Estonia illegally, you said that you do not understand how an ethnic Estonian can illegally come to Estonia, what it is to come here illegally. You see, there are ethnic Estonians who could come here illegally, even in Abkhazia, a zillion, and not just there. There are various groups of once emigrated Estonians who are absolutely pure ethnic Estonians. So I repeat the question of Peter Võsa: what will happen if such an ethnic Estonian comes to Estonia illegally?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U217	I can simply say from Parliament's speaking board that I encourage you to act in such a way that no person arrives in the country of Estonia illegally.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U218	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U219	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is about the circle of people affected by this law. Do you have statistics on, for example, the past year or the past year, how many people have arrived in Estonia illegally, how many have to be expelled and how the trend is, is it a growing or declining circle of people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U220	Thank you for your constructive question. I'd be happy to share the statistics with you. The total number of persons placed in the expulsion centre in 2012 was 93, most of them, 41 of whom were of Vietnamese origin and the second was Georgian citizens with 21. As regards the trend towards exit regulations, which is discussed in this draft, the number of these is moving upwards: in 2011, there were 515 such precepts, 660 in 2012. Expulsion and placement in an expulsion centre here too can talk of an increase in the trend, but this increase is marginal in comparison with other EU Member States. When 40 persons were placed in the expulsion centre in 2010, there were 62 in 2011 and, as I said, 93 last year. It can be said that statistically, proportionally, the increase is remarkably high, double, but these figures are really very, very small compared to other countries. Expulsion statistics are as follows: 66 in 2010, 111 in 2011 and 155 in 2012.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U221	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U222	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I am still asking about the number of days involved in the return decision. I've read that the Vietnamese can't be sent back until the fall, because there are no planes going to Vietnam. How, then, will this 30-day deadline be met?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U223	Thank you for your question. If you so specifically refer to the Vietnamese and possible reasons or rumours about these causes, I will certainly take this opportunity to clarify and inform you whether this information is true that the transport obstacle does not allow them to be returned. I doubt it, but I'm sure I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U224	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U225	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Recently, a lot has been said and discussed in the media in newspapers, magazines, television, radio, that people arriving here illegally are treated very badly in Estonia, that their living conditions are poor. Not only has this been said in Estonia, but we have also received comments from outside. How do you really assess this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U226	Thank you for your question. I think we certainly have room for improvement in a number of areas. As for those who have arrived illegally in Estonia, it would be a sin to say that we are all right in this regard. We are working to ensure that laws are more legal and understandable, especially for those who want to know their rights, and that is precisely why we are here before you today with this draft. In addition, a draft has only recently been processed in this Parliament concerning the new detention centre that will be created, where the conditions are considerably better than they are today. This is once again an unambiguous step by the Estonian state to change the environment and accommodation conditions, to significantly improve detention conditions for those who have arrived here. And, as I have already pointed out, detention as such in general has been clearly under the supervision of the judicial system in Estonia. A detention of more than 48 hours is possible in Estonia only with the permission of the Administrative Court. In the case of a system where judicial supervision functions well, Estonia has been set as an example for some other Member States, and I think this is an extremely important observation from the point of view of the rule of law. So we specify the laws, we improve the conditions for staying in Estonia and the supervision of the judicial system is what we can already highlight positively.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U227	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U228	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, first of all, thank you very much for your very competent answers and for the explanations given during the procedure of this bill. Since you had very good statistics to provide, there are certainly statistics by age. My question is about the number of minors among these people, because minors are subject to all kinds of conditions, such as play opportunities, sandboxes, hobbies education, while they are here for a longer period, and training. Age statistics would probably give some insight.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U229	Thank you for a good question. I have to tell you that I owe you exact statistics right now, but I'd be happy to email you directly the latest data on the first half of this year, which is just over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U230	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U231	Thanks! Migration research in Europe and the migration network is carried out by the Centre for Migration Research at the Academy of Internal Defence, and I have always received very adequate answers if there is any interest. How much cooperation do you have with this institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U232	Thank you for your question. This relationship and communication are intense. They've only recently made a background paper on migration research, which, according to my memory, was introduced here a few weeks ago. Since this particular centre is located in the area of the Ministry of the Interior, there has, of course, been close cooperation with these experts in drafting drafts, and this will certainly be the case in the future. I think they are constructive partners and this cooperation should be continued.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U233	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U234	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! My question is based on the question of Marika Tuus-Laul. I imagine that there should be some existing standards in the European Union, precisely for the same bodies where those detained at the border are held, etc. What is our situation compared to neighbouring countries? I know that there have been articles in the Swedish press, for example, that tourists from some developing countries are deliberately speeding in a rental car taken for one day to get into Swedish prison for two days, because the conditions are just as good as they are in their home country. Nor should such a situation be allowed to arise in order for the institutions in which the prisoners are held at the border to become a convenient place of absence.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U235	I can only agree with the statement in your question. Surely this should not be the case. Our aim is, however, not to get to Estonia illegally, but to come legally. We have very clear demands for those who could come here legally. We are generally based on a conservative migration policy, and this means that we are still expecting people in Estonia who can add value to our society. As you know, Parliament has only recently adopted the relevant amendments to the Aliens Act. I think it is reasonable to make our laws more flexible. For those who decide to come to Estonia illegally, and probably not to Estonia, but to the European Union, trying to use our small country as a transit corridor, we must be fair, we must definitely be guided by human considerations. At the same time, we must try to find out what the real motivations for their arrival in Estonia are, whether, for example, the illegal arrival in Estonia has been the result of a real need and a very clearly justified need to apply for asylum from Estonia. Satisfying asylum applications in Estonia is about the same as on average in the European Union. In the European Union, around 30% of asylum applications are accepted, 70% are rejected. In the European Union, there are countries where this percentage is 95, even 99, and we are among the European Union's averages. I think that, as a small country, we should act in such a way that we are clearly understandable, giving clear signals. This signal, which you mentioned in your question, is certainly not what the Estonian state should give.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U236	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U237	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I have a question about the asylum seekers' centre and the detention centre. One is under the Ministry of Social Affairs and the other is under the Ministry of the Interior, although in principle there are people both here and there who are staying in Estonia without a legal basis. Just on the basis of some criteria, some are considered to be dangerous and others to be less dangerous. Why are these two institutions under different authority, two different ministries? Couldn't they be under one ministry? Then it would be easier to manage these people there, guide them, help them and do whatever they want.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U238	Thank you for your question. Such a decision, a 'historical decision' towards our country, has been made some time ago. One is a centre with no manned guards, the other is a guarded facility. We have renamed one as a accommodation centre in Illukaa, and the other is a detention centre where there are those who have arrived illegally and who have been subject to detention. I think that this is a justified approach which could continue as such.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U239	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U240	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the draft law 444, the law on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry and the law on the citizens of the European Union was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 3 June. (a) and in the Commission, it was discussed ten days later, on 13 June. Members of the Commission and Minister Vaher for the Interior and Mrs Ruth Annus from the Ministry were present at the Commission's debate. The purpose of the draft is to amend and supplement the legal provisions and procedures relating to the return, expulsion, detention and application of the refusal of entry of third-country nationals staying illegally in Estonia. I would like to point out that the content and basic rules of the bill, the norms are not Estonia's invention or desire. The request for a draft act is to establish common and clearly understandable, harmonised rules on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry within the European Union. This draft does not regulate the conditions of detention or any other such rules, but the rules of procedure on how to comply with the obligation to refuse entry and removal. At the meeting of the Commission, the representatives of the initiators of the draft replied to questions put by the members of the Commission. One question concerned, for example, the fact that if the law was to enter into force on 1 October 2014, for which reason it was already necessary to put the draft to the procedure. We have received an exhaustive explanation of this: in order to avoid infringement proceedings, the preparatory work should start in good time and the longer time will also allow for a better draft. Then there was the question of why the text of the draft law differs somewhat from what is stated in the explanatory memorandum and also in the directive. While the directive speaks more in a flexible language, i.e. decisions should be justified or based on reasonable doubt, the text of the draft law is sometimes very categorical, only the word'suspect' is used. The question was whether the word'suspect' should not be specified by adding a'reasoned' to it. Another similar example is the fashion word 'danger', but in fact there should be either a 'immunity hazard' or a 'alternity threat'. In short, the absence of such a qualifying identifier may give the decision-maker too much discretion. A number of linguistic clarifications were also brought to the attention of the Commission, which were also accepted by the drafters. Following this debate, the following consensual decisions were taken by the Commission: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 18 June. a, propose the completion of the first reading, set the deadline for the amendments to be fixed at 19 August. a and a waitress in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U241	Thank you very much. Please, Imre Sooäär, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U242	Thank you. Good waitress! I would like to continue with the question I have started, to which the Minister has already answered quite thoroughly. I now have a question for the Commission. Some of the members of the political parties represented in the Riigikogu have also made statements in the press that we still do not do enough for those people who are waiting for their decision or assigned to be expelled, whether or not this plane is found. For example, has the Commission, which sometimes also carries out field visits, visited places like this in Estonia? What are the conditions and what is the Commission's opinion? When the press showed pictures of a mass murderer in a prison cell in Breivik, which looked like a good two- or three-star hotel room with its own TV, etc., there was quite a controversy in the Nordic countries over those people on the border who would rather spend time in such a luxurious prison cell. While, for example, some Estonians have been found in a sewer somewhere in Europe. This is actually a philosophical question about how far we want to go. Does the Commission have a position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U243	We are going to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Supervision Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U244	Good chairman of the sitting! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a draft aimed in particular at ensuring the effective operation of the Environmental Inspectorate 24/7 and the availability of the data necessary for monitoring. The main change is that, according to the draft, inspection staff will have the right to remain on duty for up to 250 hours each month. This means that the inspection will be able to carry out its tasks outside normal working hours, both at night and on holidays and at public holidays, which will in turn ensure the ability to react quickly, if necessary, in the event of an environmental accident or non-compliance, where any slight delay could have significantly worse consequences for nature and human health. In addition, the draft gives the Environmental Inspectorate the right to maintain databases of site inspections and offences. These collections are already already fully available; it is simply necessary to clarify their legal basis in a specific law. The database of offences shall contain data on injunctions, criminal cases, charges for pollution, misdemeanours and removal of fishing gear placed on illegal fishing. No new data will be added to this specific database after 2013, and it will continue to operate as an archive. However, the data necessary for the organisation of the work of the Environmental Inspectorate includes a site inspection database, such as complaints sent to the inspection, or also reports of arrivals in the port of the fishing vessels. This database is the basis for the analysis and planning of the inspection work. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to ask you to support the draft that has been submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U245	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Environment. You're late, Marika Tuus-lauul, did you wish to ask a question? Then let me ask you this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U246	Madam Secretary! Are you also aware of the attitude of the employees of the Environmental Inspectorate to these changes? How does the staff feel about whether they are positive, negative, or not accountable?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U247	Thank you. The attitude is well known. There is a very positive view, as, among other things, on-call time also means that the pay for the work done at that time is one-tenth higher than the normal salary. So all inspection staff understand why on-call time is necessary and look forward to this change.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U248	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U249	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! This bill also talks about databases and I'm asking about them. How do you assess the ability to get the database to work quickly and smoothly? We remember that there have been cases in Estonia in the past where the tasks are not fulfilled when switching to the new database, such as the payment of disability benefits. Can you confirm that there are no major failures in the implementation of this database and that everything is going smoothly?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U250	Thank you. As I mentioned, this data is still being collected, so there will be no significant technical change. However, the legal basis will be more precise with the amendment. On the technical side, there is complete readiness and capability, and I have no doubt that the database will work smoothly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U251	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U252	Please tell me whether the costs of implementing this law remain within the scope of the Environmental Inspectorate's budget, whether there is a need for additional money or whether additional funding is needed. In short, how will it be financed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U253	Thank you. Funding will be provided by the existing budget. We have calculated that these costs need to be covered, so the money is available for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U254	Now there's no more questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Environment. We're going to the next waitress named Valeri Korb, member of the Environment Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U255	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed the draft on Monday 10 June 2013. Deputy Chancellor Andres Talijärv of the Ministry of the Environment and Head of the Legal Department of the Environmental Inspectorate Väino Väidla were invited to the meeting of the committee. The draft was initiated by s. a 3th June, the Government of the Republic. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu appointed the Committee on the Environment as the lead committee and the Act enters into force in general terms. I am not going to give an overview of what Mr Väino Vaikla spoke about, because the Minister talked about it quite thoroughly. In short, four of the questions raised at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment. Mr Randver asked whether the deadlines for the archives were sufficient in the eyes of the Environmental Inspectorate. In response, we found that these deadlines were time limits for the preservation of procedural documents. Therefore, access to them remains active for ten years and will be maintained for another five years after that. Our committee chairman, Erki Nool, asked about 250 hours how it was meant to be and what happens if representatives of the Environmental Inspectorate are to be guarded for 300 hours. Väino Vaikla replied that during the year there have been only seven times over 250 hours, so this does not happen often. My colleague, Mr Kõiv, asked what the inspectors thought and whether it would be feasible to apply the principle of the work of assistant police officers in this system. In response, we found that by adopting this law, the situation would undoubtedly change, on the one hand, the 250-hour compensation, and it is also more difficult to find partners for inspectors. As I understood from the answer, we can look at this in the future. Mr Rein Randver also asked whether, in the future, the inspector could identify all the permits needed for the work, using the ID-card number, or whether the person would have to carry more than one piece of paper. We've received a reply that the ID-card will help completely. Väino Vaikla spoke about this and Andres Talijärv replied. This concludes the questions and the Commission adopted consensual decisions to appoint Valeri Korb, member of the Environment Committee, as rapporteur for the 443 commission, to propose to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu that the draft 443 be first read on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary session on 18 June 2013, to propose that the Riigikogu plenary session finish the first reading of the draft 443 and to propose to the Riigikogu board that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 16 a.m. on 3 July 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U256	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U257	Thank you, Mr President. The rapporteur from the Commission. The explanatory memorandum states quite a long time that the second point is intended to ensure that, after the end of working hours, holidays and public holidays, they are prepared to respond to crisis situations and to perform other unforeseen tasks in an operational manner. As you have already said, you spoke quite thoroughly in the Commission about additional hours and more. Did you also talk about the crisis situation and how this legislative change will affect this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U258	The explanatory memorandum is quite comprehensively written about the fact that we have 15 county offices and the number of people in these offices is four to seven. I understand that when a person goes in and starts doing his job, these classes often do not provide an opportunity to close the proceedings within this short time. What should I do? In this context, it is proposed to extend the period during which the inspector may work on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U259	No further questions. Thank you very much, Valeri Korb. Is there a desire to open negotiations? There is no wish to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 443. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 443 amendments. 3 July 2010 at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U260	We are going to the seventh item on today's agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I would like to present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U261	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I would like to introduce to you, on behalf of the initiators, the draft law amending the Law on State Family Allowances, i.e. draft 435. What is the purpose of this bill? More specifically, the amendment to this law may be called the introduction of school allowance into the State Family Benefits Act. The purpose of the State Family Benefits Act is to ensure that families with children receive partial reimbursement of the costs of caring for, raising and studying their children. All children have the right to equal treatment. The universal family benefit system gives future parents the message that each child is valuable. The school allowance provided for by the State Family Benefits Act in 2001 was entitled to every student starting the academic year. The school allowance was terminated by a decision of the Crocodile Commission, which was adopted at the end of 2008 by the Act amending the Victim Assistance Act and other laws, known to be the language of the people. The state budget crisis was mentioned as an excuse for losing school support, and it seems that school support was one of the easiest grants to be cut. The cessation of the payment of the state school allowance put families in need of assistance in a rather hopeless situation, and as a result, many municipalities have taken on support only for those in need or, more generally, to cover the school allowance. Today, continued price increases have affected all of us, but it is families with children who are hit hard by constant price increases. The study 'Estonian birth factors 2008' shows that the birth rate is supported primarily by the state's tangible support and the knowledge that the lost or single parent can raise their children, provide them with a full childhood and good education. Good education is not only a school education, but children and parents also understand the education of interest, the opportunity to exercise, cultural, artistic and musical knowledge very clearly. As a result, it is increasingly important to provide children with a school allowance at the beginning of the academic year, which would help them to cover the costs of teaching equipment and other things. Why every year? For it is clear that a child grows out of his first year's sweatpants, sports shoes and change shoes quite quickly, and the talk of helping only the first-class students' support is not worth the criticism. Moreover, in older classes the needs of students are often much greater. The purpose of the draft is to restore public school support, which guarantees at least part of the costs related to the beginning of the school year, including school supplies, sports goods, school clothes and footwear already mentioned. According to Statistics Estonia, 11% of all children under the age of 18 lived in relative poverty and almost 9.5% in absolute poverty in Estonia in 2011. When these figures are put together, it is sad to note that nearly 60,000 children are currently living in poverty in Estonia. After all, this makes the restoration of school support even more important. In addition to so-called 'need-based' discussions, it is quite clear that putting parents of children going to school in an economically difficult situation is not justified in any way to apply for social workers or for the order of those in need. When we look at the campaigns of recent years, for example, in August last year, early September, almost everyone noticed a major support campaign, where the non-profit sector, in cooperation with the social workers of several municipalities, collected data on families who would need support for the child's so-called 'panishing', i.e. for school start-ups. As strange as it may seem for many who are fighting for need-based child support here, there were quite a few children on this list who are not really receiving income support and whose parents seem to live quite well. However, the problems are diverse, as has been pointed out by a number of specialists, social workers and organisations that are constantly dealing with those in need. Family crisis situations may result from job losses, temporary difficulties, but may simply be the result, for example, of wage losses resulting from the economic downturn or post-crisis pay constraints. Quite a few employers downgraded their wages. At the same time, commitments made during the boom, such as leases, loans, long-term and short-term commitments, may exceed the current possibilities and therefore are often saved where possible from children's school supplies, sports clothes and other necessary items. The draft consists of two paragraphs, the first of which contains six points. Paragraph 1 (1) of the draft law amends the heading of Chapter 3 of the State Family Benefits Act by adding other family benefits to lump sums. This change was due to the fact that the current law only provides for monthly and one-off family allowances. Point 1 extends the family allowances to include school allowance in Chapter 3. Paragraph 2 supplements Chapter 3 with § 121 by adding to the family allowances the school allowance which a child who fulfils the conditions laid down in subsections 5 (1) or 5 (2) of this Act is entitled to receive for the commencement of the academic year. Point 2 states that the school allowance is paid at three times the amount of child benefit. Point 3 states that the school allowance is calculated on the basis of the child benefit rate in force in the month preceding the beginning of the school year. Paragraph 4 (2) of the State Family Benefits Act provides that the rate of child benefit is to be established by the state budget for each financial year. Point 4 of the draft law sets a deadline for the granting of family allowances. Paragraph 21 of the State Family Benefits Act is supplemented by paragraph 8 which states that the school allowance is granted to a child aged 16 years and older if the allowance has been applied for within six months from the beginning of the academic year. Paragraph 1 (5) complements § 24 (9) and (10) of the State Family Benefits Act, which provide for the payment of school allowance. According to the draft, the school allowance is paid to a child aged 7 years by 1 October of the current year until he or she reaches the age of 16. Due to the fact that the school allowance is intended to cover part of the costs of starting the school year, the allowance is paid in August together with other family allowances. If the child starts studying earlier than 7 years of age or is 16 years of age or older, the school allowance is paid after receiving the data from the Estonian Education Information System or upon submission of the educational institution's notification or student ticket. If the child does not start studying after the age of 7, the parent is obliged to notify the pension institution. Paragraph 1 (6) is supplemented by school allowance for a child who is away from a care establishment because of his or her education. § 2 of the Bill sets the deadline for the entry into force of the Act as 1 January 2014, which is naturally in line with the logic of our state budget procedure. According to the Estonian Education Information System, one study in Estonia is carried out. 111335 students. At upper secondary school, 23640 students receive education. There are 421 vocational students without basic education and 966 vocational students based on basic education. Assuming that the number of students will not change significantly in the following year, the school grant beneficiaries would be around 136362 in the following academic year. The payment of school allowance at a three-fold child benefit rate of 28 euros and 77 cents would increase the state budget expenditure for the following year by 3.92 million euros. The impact of the legislative amendment on the state budget can be taken into account in the planning of the 2014 state budget, as the law would be in force on 1 January 2014. To sum up, the Crocodile Commission and the cuts during the crisis have lived up to their time in many ways. Our aim is to restore the types of support in place and the pre-s cut-off situations that are absolutely appropriate and necessary for Estonia. After all, students who go to school are told a long series of things that need to be stocked up for school each year. Of course, a variety of school supplies are needed. Charitable collections are quite common at the end of August and in the beginning of September. However, it would be appropriate for the non-profit sector to be sidelined or sometimes replaced by the state and to support the schooling of its students. Moreover, the amount that we are proposing here with our draft is at the pre-crisis level, once in force, of school support. The very first proposal is to restore this level and then step by step to increase support, because the annual analyses show that the cost of filling a student's school bag is clearly higher than the 28 euros and 77 cents we have offered. These 28 euros and 77 cents are in addition to the opportunities that the family has itself, or what the local government and, as I have already mentioned, a number of charitable actions propose. What are the broadest effects of the law, however, can be understood by the analyses I have already mentioned in the introduction. We have a very large number of children living in poverty, and it is certainly the task of the state to deal with the fight against poverty in a comprehensive way and to alleviate the situation. Direct support for a child going to school is clearly a very important measure here. Finally, I would like to say that we certainly have reason to come back to the issues of the time of death on several points. It is appropriate to recall here that verbatim reports containing these discussions are still available. When the cut-up bill came out of the Riigikogu hall, it was always stressed that it was a temporary measure and the state intends to restore the status quo as soon as possible. The expectation of returning school support is clearly present for parents and discussions on these issues are welcome. The rapporteur from the Social Committee will certainly talk more about this. Unfortunately, at the moment, the decision is that the Government of the Republic does not support the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act. The justification is very simple: there are no budgetary resources for this. However, let me remind you that the new budget is currently being put together only on the basis of the forecasts of May, it will be completed on the basis of the forecasts of August and the Riigikogu will only start to process the 2014 budget during the autumn season. So to explain that the budget does not provide for such funds is quite arbitrary. Moreover, given the very rapid rise in food prices, the rather difficult economic situation, especially the constant increase in electricity prices from today's pages, can be seen as saddening again from the record-breaking electricity price leap to the ceiling, and then to say that the state does not have the means to support students' schooling, but parents must find these resources, it is certainly not appropriate for the Republic of Estonia. I therefore ask the honourable members of the Riigikogu, however, unlike the committee, to discuss this draft in substance. If necessary, we can also move the draft to second and third readings in the autumn, but the proposal is still to finish the first reading. Understandably, there is no need to hold extraordinary sessions for this draft either, because, in the case of entry into force, the logic of the financial year has been taken into account, although in the meantime, there will be one September, where several parents will only be able to fill their child's coast thanks to charitable collections and the support of good people and entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U262	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U263	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, The school grant was terminated at the end of 2008 and was done in the usual way, by the Act on the Victim Assistance Act and the Law on the amendment of other laws. Although the Prime Minister said at the time that there was no crisis, and if it was a crisis, he wanted to live in such a crisis, it was said that the cause was the economic crisis, there was a need for savings, etc. It's like there's no more of this crisis right now, but there's no sympathy. Do you think it was really the crisis or the desire of a coalition ambassador or a group of them to refuse any help to those in need? We have this kind of liberalism right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U264	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, as far as the crisis in 2008 is concerned, yes, your recollections are indeed correct. Not only the Prime Minister, but also some other members of the government tried to say for quite a while that this crisis was overrated and the opposition parties were overblown in order to create panic. As far as cuts are concerned, one of the things I have already mentioned in the introduction was the claim that they are temporary. It was said that cuts will be returned as soon as the economy has a slightly more stable moment, and that the situation before cuts will be restored. Let this be, for example, the restoration of the income base of local governments, which has unfortunately not been done so far, although our group, as well as the Cities Union and the Association of Rural Governments, have repeatedly paid attention to this. Even though local authorities were allegedly deprived of the obligation to stand up for the activities of children and young people in terms of interest and sport, which, to say the least, is rather sad, has not returned to the flies. In the first years, it was clear that local authorities would not be cut, and in reality their income base simply decreased. By now, however, many circumstances have led to restrictions on the activity of interest and have pushed it on the parent's wallet. Does the abolition of subsidies show any greater political stance? Of course. If we look at the very painful debate on child benefits over the last few years, how the issue of child benefits began, then the abolition of child benefits started, and the pressure from the general public finally came to see that children's benefits do remain, but only for certain target groups increase, despite the fact that the increase is only nine euros. So a clear stance has been taken with the abolition and cuts of these subsidies, and that is that the state will save on every possible step and often on those people who should not actually be saved on. As I said, the statistics are quite sad: we have more than 60,000 children living in poverty. And it is very, very difficult for families with these children, especially large families, to go to school.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-18_U265	Thank you very much. It is now full of the time limit for our sitting, it is 1 p.m. Let us not go into this area, and we will continue tomorrow. The question is registered with Heljo Pikhofil, Helmen Kütil, Enn Eesmaal, Kadri Simson, Yana Toom, Kalev Kallo and the second question on Mikhail Stalnukhin. We'll pick it up tomorrow. Tonight, I wish everyone a beautiful day. Closure of the sitting at 13.02 a.m.
