ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the 14th working week Tuesday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. It is not recommended to hand over any drafts or requests for information. Let's go to the messages. On Wednesday 15 May, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Education and Research Jaak Aavikkogu. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 18 are missing. Let's go to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U2	The first item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu of the President of the Republic of Toomas Hendrik Ilves on the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court of Priit Pikamäe. I will introduce you to the procedure for handling the draft appointment of the official. The presentation of the representative of the commission shall not exceed 20 minutes, the presentation of the candidate for official support shall not exceed five minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask both rapporteurs an oral question. Then there are negotiations where the representatives of the political groups can speak, and then we will go to the final vote. The final vote shall be secret. I would now like to present the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rait Maruste.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U3	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 9 April this year, the President of the Republic, Toomas Hendrik Ilves, proposed that the Riigikogu appoint a new President of the Supreme Court in accordance with subsections 65 (7) and 150 (1) of our Constitution. His proposal is to appoint Priit Pikamäe, a member of the Supreme Court, as chairman of the Supreme Court. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this proposal at its meeting on 6 May 2013. Priit Pikamäe, a candidate for the President of the Supreme Court, was also present, who answered our questions. The questions concerned court administration, the renewal of criminal proceedings, the speed of proceedings, the problems of filling judges' seats and a number of other issues. Priit Pikamäe gave constructive and satisfactory answers to the questions, giving the Commission a good impression. The Commission is therefore ready to support Priit Pikamägi's candidacy. Priit Pikamäe has been a judge for a long time and has also completed a career in public service in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thus, he has experience and has moved within the system to the Supreme Court. Right now, he's the chairman of a criminal college. He has also been active in academic activities. So he's fit for the job I hope he's facing. The Commission, with one voice, proposed to support the draft decision, to put the matter on the agenda by 14 May, or today, to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur, or the speaker. We also decided to propose that the candidate be present at the plenary session with a presentation of up to five minutes. In addition, the question of the oath of the judge was also discussed in the Commission. Priit Pikamäe is currently a member of the Supreme Court and has taken an oath to judge. There is no separate oath by the President of the Supreme Court and therefore there is no need to take a judicial oath before the Riigikogu for a second time. Therefore, today we have a new, unprecedented situation in which a person who has come from inside the Supreme Court is applying for the chairmanship of the Supreme Court. All previous presidents came from outside the Riigikogu and had to take an oath before the Riigikogu. Finally, I call on you to support the candidate, ask him questions and give your opinion through the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U4	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I would like to present a speech chair to Priit Pikamäe, the candidate for the President of the Supreme Court!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for the opportunity to present a small presentation before the Riigikogu, and I would also like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to present yourself and your views in the political groups as well as in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in advance. It was extremely meaningful discussions, which confirmed my conviction that our Parliament is familiar with developments and bottlenecks in the judicial system and procedural laws, and also provided me with much-needed information on which problems you consider primarily important to resolve. According to the Constitution, the Supreme Court is also the Constitutional Court. Thus, the Supreme Court must resolve all constitutional disputes brought before it. The current case law on constitutional review confirms that most of the disputes in this area have been the subject of a law adopted by Parliament. This is also self-evident, because as a parliamentary state, the most important issues of Estonian society must be resolved by the Riigikogu. On the other hand, it also means that for the Supreme Court, the most important parties in constitutional disputes are the parties to the procedure, that is, as is now customary to say, the cooperation partners of the Riigikogu. When assessing the cooperation so far in the area of constitutional supervision as a whole, I believe that it has proved to be very well-functioning and respectful of mutual competences. This means, among other things, that the Supreme Court has, in its practice so far, refrained from making excessively detailed precepts to the legislator and the Riigikogu has taken the decisions of the Supreme Court to comply. The role of the central cooperation partner of the Riigikogu also means that the opinions of the Riigikogu, the minutes of the parliamentary debate and the explanatory notes of the relevant draft laws are one of the most important procedural documents from the point of view of resolving each dispute. I think that the Riigikogu's views in constitutional review proceedings would, however, be even better appreciated if the Riigikogu, primarily through committees, required that the substantive quality of the explanatory notes to the drafts brought before Parliament be better. For the Supreme Court, the content of the draft explanatory memorandum is particularly relevant in disputes concerning the limitation of fundamental rights, which could ideally be based on the arguments already put forward in the explanatory memorandum of the draft in sufficient detail to decide on the necessity of limiting the fundamental right involved. These are considerations which cannot be understood to be seen from the text of the legal provision, but which are essential to understand the reasons why the legislator opted for the solution chosen in a particular case. In such a case, the Supreme Court would be better informed of the aims of the parliament when carrying out the constitutional review when establishing a single provision. Finally, the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court as a constitutional court places special, heightened demands on the quality of decisions made on behalf of the Supreme Court. I think that, as in the judicial system as a whole, the Supreme Court in particular needs to be better founded on the decisions of the courts. In a situation where litigation is becoming increasingly sector-specific, it is also essential to involve professionals from non-judicial areas in the justice process to ensure this. Globalisation has also not left justice intact, one of which is certainly the merger of national supreme courts and constitutional courts into various international networks and the practice of translating the most important decisions of the Supreme Court into more common foreign languages for their supranational access. I am convinced that our higher court must also have weight internationally, so it is necessary to strive for the Supreme Court's decisions to become a model for others, at least for the higher courts of the countries of our neighbourhood, in terms of their foundation, expertise and thoughtfulness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U6	Thank you very much. There are some questions for the rapporteur. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U7	Dear Mr. Pikamäe! As the likely future President of the Supreme Court, you will certainly have a clear view of the content and future of all three of our courts. How do you assess the current quality of the Court of First Instance and the proposal that, in the event of a certain degree of infringement, proceedings be initiated at the second instance?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U8	I fully support this proposal. I have also expressed the opinion myself that our judicial system, where things move "linearly" all things start from the Court of First Instance and can be appealed to the District Court and then to the Supreme Court, is seemingly simple, but at the same time it is relatively resource-intensive and time-intensive. When we look at other European countries, we rarely see such a system. In general, I believe that the question of jurisdiction in Estonia could be considered from the point of view of whether some more complicated, more difficult matters could not be resolved as a first instance court in a district court.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U9	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U10	Honorable candidate for the President of the Supreme Court! In the Riigikogu, the need to reorganize the judicial system so that courts of first and second instance are governed by the Supreme Court and not by the Ministry of Justice. What is your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U11	I will stick to what I have already said on this issue. I think that this model of judicial administration, which was introduced by adopting the law currently in force in 2002, is basically correct. The approach to the administration of courts of first and second instance through the court administration advisory board could remain in force, but this model can be supplemented and refined. In my opinion, the composition, competence and jurisdiction of the Court's administration are fundamental issues if this model is to continue. However, I do not think that the granting of courts to administer the Supreme Court is justified. This is because there might be a problem with too much concentration of power. When we look at the issues that the Supreme Court already has to resolve, we see that there are not few of them. And when it comes to judgment, it must also be borne in mind that justice must be independent not only of other branches of state power, but also of the administration of justice at levels of justice must be independent of each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U12	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Grief Dam!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U13	Ladies and gentlemen, if you are going to live, can you also talk about political interference, perhaps your name has been identified on the list of political parties? And I also ask you, if you read the names of the Estonian parties, will your blood pressure rise and your pulse get faster, both in good and bad terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U14	As far as I know, my name hasn't figured out a list of any political parties. And as far as the names of the parties are concerned, I can assure you that my blood pressure doesn't change in any way when I read them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U15	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U16	Honourable Mr. Pikamäe! That's the question. Unfortunately, our legal reality includes legendary processes that last five, six, seven, eight years. The role of the court is that back end, and I do not want to raise any problems right now, especially today, on the efficiency of the work of the courts. But what do you think about the fact that in criminal cases, the supervision of pre-trial procedures by the law is not very strong? On the other hand, possible violations of the law, I repeat: possible violations of the law may last for years. Is everything okay in pre-trial investigations with procedural deadlines?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U17	It is, of course, extremely regrettable if the time limits for legal proceedings or pre-trial proceedings are delayed. The general understanding is that both pre-trial and court proceedings should be brought together within a reasonable period of time. The latter is, of course, an undefined legal term that depends in many respects on the circumstances of the particular case, its size, its complexity, the number of persons involved. This is where this reasonable period of procedure is to be taken into account. As far as possible delays in the pre-trial procedure are concerned, I think the main issue is still the lack of resources. When we look at pre-trial and also court proceedings, the time when the judge arrives at a decision on a particular case depends essentially on two criteria. One is the number of cases and the other is the number of persons assigned to them. If these criteria remain the same, it is clear that temporary overloads may occur and some things may fall into those that are not priority. This also applies to legal proceedings. We see this every day, how precisely the number of cases and the number of judges of these two matters are correlated and the time of the proceedings depends on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U18	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U19	Honorable candidate for the President of the Supreme Court! I'm gonna back off this high theory and come up with some real pros. The Tartuns are certainly proud that the Supreme Court is in Tartu. That beautiful house in the Devil's Bridge neighborhood is nice and proud to watch. At the same time, the President of the Supreme Court, who is still in office, has said that the Supreme Court is narrow and should move to Tallinn, I hope that the Supreme Court should find a new home. Where do you think the Supreme Court's home is?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U20	I am convinced that the seat of the Supreme Court in Tartu is a very good solution. If we look at how it is outside Estonia, there is a relatively common tradition that a higher court is not located in the capital of the country, and I think that this could continue to be the case. As regards the House of the Supreme Court, I think that the current President of the Supreme Court primarily meant that this building has been relatively depreciated over the years. There are problems with the ventilation, the basement, the heating of the deficiencies would go a long way here. It is a fact that this building needs a thorough renovation, and in this context the current Chairman of the Supreme Court has raised the question whether it is worth the effort. Perhaps it would be better to find a new place for the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U21	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U22	Good candidate for the Chairman of the Supreme Court! According to our Constitution, the Supreme Court has two roles: the review of judicial decisions in the order of cassation, as well as the monitoring of constitutionality. This is not the case in many European countries, but we have both politicians and legal scientists who think that Estonia needs a separate constitutional court. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U23	I have already expressed an opinion on this in the past, and I also said in this report today that our constitutional oversight system as a whole is working and is working well. There should be very good reasons for radicalising this functioning system. If we look at it more broadly, the analogous system, where the State's supreme court is both the Supreme General Court and the Constitutional Court, is also common in our neighbourhood in the Nordic countries. There is nothing wrong with this model itself. Of course, there are different approaches to building constitutional oversight. Very different solutions exist in different countries. However, it seems to me that this solution, which we have chosen, is a good solution for Estonia. Once again, there should be exceptionally strong arguments to change it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U24	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U25	Honorable candidate for the President of the Supreme Court! Last week, a debate on the future of Europe was held between attorney-at-law Jüri Raidla and our President, Toomas Hendrik Ilves. Jüri Raidla argued that the European Union is moving towards a federal state by increasing the volume of directly applicable legislation, and at one point we have crossed a line where there is more direct application. Do you see any role of the Supreme Court in apprehending this border, noticing it, and, if you see, what role could the Supreme Court play?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U26	The Supreme Court cannot in any way influence the law-making of the institutions of the European Union in the sense that they can issue directly applicable legislation there. However, the Supreme Court has a role to play in asking the Court of Justice for preliminary rulings if necessary and also in implementing EU legislation. When we look at the practice of colleges of the Supreme Court, the approach to European Union legislation is increasingly frequent. That is, unfortunately, the role of the Supreme Court in the administration of justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U27	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U28	Honourable answer! What you would do in certain cases with more complex court cases in our linear justice system is now known to us: you would often dismiss the dispute at first instance at all. But I'll ask you about some of the simpler ones, let's take, for example, the disputes about housing companies. Do you think it would make sense to deal with them and also to resolve them before the courts, for example, in the House Association Dispute Committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U29	As far as judicial proceedings, jurisdiction are concerned, it is in Parliament's hands to decide all these matters. If we look at the current organisation of court proceedings, there are already disputes that are first pending, we will take labour disputes as an example. In itself, it is not excluded that the legislator extends it to other types of dispute, and why not include these same disputes concerning housing associations. But this requires a change in the law currently in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U30	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U31	Dear waitress, I express my opinion on your words that the Supreme Court does not have much to do about the right of the European Union. I think that according to the Constitution, the Supreme Court has more to do in the application of European Union law than you may think. But here's my question. § 142 of the Constitution states that if the Chancellor of Justice considers that the legislative act of a legislative or executive power or of a local authority is contrary to the Constitution or the law, he shall propose to the body which adopted the act that it be brought into conformity with the Constitution or the law within 20 days. If the act has not been brought into conformity with the Constitution or the law within 20 days, the Chancellor of Justice shall propose to the Court that it be repealed. Do you think that 20 days is reasonable and justified because, in reality, this 20 days cannot be adhered to?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U32	I understand that this is a matter of the Constitutional Review Courts Act. We could certainly consider extending this deadline. It has to be admitted that we see it every day in the Supreme Court, that courtrooms in the area of constitutionality have become more and more complicated. They have become increasingly specific, and sometimes I fully understand that it is also difficult for Parliament to formulate a position on a matter and it may take more time. Therefore, an extension of this deadline could be considered. However, as I have already said, it is in Parliament's hands to amend the laws on legal proceedings, in accordance with the current constitution. So if Parliament considers that this deadline is short, then, of course, it may consider extending it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U33	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U34	Dear Priit Pikamäe! I have a simple question. President Toomas Hendrik Ilves stresses, among other good assumptions, your suitable personal qualities for this new profession. How do you assess your personal belongings? What do you consider to be your most powerful aspect of this office of President of the Supreme Court? What do you need most in there?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U35	It's not easy for me to do self-praising as an Estonian, but maybe the courage of decision-making. At the same time, I do not think that a person who does not dare to make decisions can work as a judge. And so far, my experience has shown that I have the courage to make a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U36	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U37	Honourable waitress! I come to my question on the subject of Igor Gräzin, i.e. the time limits for legal proceedings. Indeed, if judicial proceedings continue for months and even years, it will have a fatal effect on people's nervous system, their reputation, their wallets, and it should be dealt with seriously. Where do you think the necessary additional resources should come from? Do we need a lot more judges? Your predecessor also discussed cutting the judges' leave from 56 days to shorter. What are these practical solutions so that we do not just talk about this year after year, but in fact the problems remain and even deepen?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U38	I dare deny that the problems are getting worse. If we look at recent cases statistics, this shows that since 2010, the number of cases in county courts has decreased year after year, and the time for examining cases has been shortened. Here, too, much depends on the number of appeals to the courts in a given period. That's one. Secondly, when we are talking about criminal proceedings, I understand that you have just referred to criminal proceedings, highlighting its impact on the image of the courts, since 2011, we have been subject to such changes in the Code of Criminal Procedure as will enable a person who thinks that his or her right to processing the case has been violated within a reasonable time to submit an application to the defendant. You can also appeal to the President of the Court and request that the case be examined more quickly and, if this is not possible, that the proceedings be terminated. I would say that in recent times, in line with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, the legislator has taken radical steps to better guarantee the right of the courts to discuss the matter within a reasonable period of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U39	Thank you. Please, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U40	Ladies and gentlemen, My question concerns the supervision of the Constitution, one specific procedure and how the various institutions participate in this procedure. If the Chancellor of Justice has contested a specific case concerning restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies and their compliance with the Constitution, and the Supreme Court deals with it, how do you see the Supreme Court addressing the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu in the same case that the Chancellor of Justice has initiated and asking for the suspension of a particular procedure? How do you comment on this based on the principle of separation of powers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U41	Unfortunately, the ethic of the judge also says, among other things, that the judge must not comment on pending cases. So in this regard, I am, unfortunately, indebted to you for an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U42	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U43	Honourable candidate! The reputation of the Estonian judicial system as a whole has suffered quite well in the last decade because of the illegal acts of some judges, which the media have also reflected very vividly. If the Riigikogu appoints you today, do you intend to take any concrete steps to increase the credibility of the Estonian judicial system? Do you have a vision for the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U44	Thank you for that question. Undoubtedly, the credibility of the judiciary is a very important asset. If we look at recent studies that have dealt with the credibility of the judiciary in the eyes of the population, they have shown that this credibility, however, is more than 60%. In view of the unfortunate cases you have in mind, this is not a bad result at all. But what am I going to do? I am sticking here to the position that I have expressed earlier: the screening for the election of new judges and their appointment must be much tighter. The panel of judges and those candidates who are brought before the General Assembly of the Supreme Court should also be strengthened.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U45	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U46	Mr Pikamäe, Estonia has been a Member State of the European Union for nine years. In order to become a Member State of the European Union, three Copenhagen criteria need to be met: there must be a market economy in the country, there must be democracy and there must be a full rule of law. My question is: can you claim anno Domini 2013 that Estonia is a hundred percent rule of law? And if he's 99%, what do you do to make him a full rule of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U47	That is a very intriguing question. I say that I believe Estonia is the rule of law. That is what our case law shows. There are undoubtedly certain shortcomings in the application of the law, in the application of the law, but also in those cases, the breaches of the fundamental rights of individuals can be protected when they go to court. This shows that our appeal procedure is not illusionary, but real, real. And I think that the situation has been getting better year after year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U48	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U49	Honourable candidate! A few weeks or months ago, perhaps a month and a half ago, news came that four people who had suffered during the Bronze Night had won the Estonian state at the European Court of Human Rights. A very strange discussion broke out in society, including some of my colleagues, claiming that the honour of the Estonian state is to challenge this decision. What is your position as a judge when such a painful reaction is adequate? And is it practically appropriate to launch such a debate in one country, not in relation to bronze nights at all? How can one country still react to the loss of one country in the European Court of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U50	I would like to answer that question in this way. Of course, it is always appropriate to discuss whether or not to appeal a judgment. There's nothing strange about it in itself. As far as this particular case is concerned, foreign communication is organised by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and, above all, it is up to it to decide what to do next, whether or not to challenge this particular decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U51	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U52	Dear Priit Pikamäe! First of all, I want to wish you the strength of this new job, because it is a very difficult and responsible job. But my question concerns the answer you gave to Mr Imre Sooääre. You said that, in order to increase quality and strengthen image, it is precisely in the selection of new judges that the sieve must be tightened. My understanding is that the problem is not that the sieve is somehow poor today, but that this sieve has a lot of new judges, new wanters, which in turn affects the length of the proceedings. Already, some seats have not been filled and very many judges are about to retire, which in turn leads to an even greater shortage of judges. How do you think the issue of the lack of judges could be resolved without reducing the density of the sieve?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U53	I said at the meetings in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the political groups that I believe that the judicial system itself should actively take steps towards promoting the judiciary more strongly, including among the fresh university graduates who are just entering the labour market. It must be acknowledged that the judicial system is well in competition with other analogous institutions, such as the Bar Association and the Prosecutor's Office, and, of course, the judicial system is interested in having the strongest lawyers in our ranks, not in mediocrities, if that is the case. So, yes, the judicial system should take more active steps towards raising awareness of the value of the judiciary among young lawyers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U54	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U55	Good candidate! I've known you since the time of the law commission when you were a very good expert on our draft laws. But now I ask whether Estonia needs a new law on courts or jurisdiction, given your potential future profession. If so, who should initiate it, is it the Riigikogu, the judiciary or the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U56	I do not dare to answer this question so widely that we need a new law. I would rather approach the problem on a 'case-by-case basis' basis, i.e. wondering whether there are any shortcomings in the current law or in the laws relating to the courts, the elimination of which is not possible unless only by amending the law. If there are such shortcomings, then, of course, consideration should be given to amending the relevant law. Which procedure should be chosen whether the draft law should be initiated by the Government of the Republic, or whether a Riigikogu commission should do so, all of this depends on the specific nature of the case, including the urgency of the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U57	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U58	Honorable candidate for the President of the Supreme Court! I ask you this question: how to proceed if the Supreme Court has made some kind of decision and the state does not comply with it? So far, the Supreme Court's ruling that there are contradictions in the financing of local governments is still outstanding. The government still hasn't solved it. Another contradiction with the Constitution is that the payment for the landowner of the facilities is too low. This, too, has not been put to an end. How do you think this could work out?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U59	However, as I pointed out in my presentation, I dare to say that in general, this is also demonstrated by the analysis of the Supreme Court. They are also carried out by other constitutional institutions. When we are talking about the 2000s, for example, our analysis showed that, in the case of only three Supreme Court decisions, there was doubt that they had been fully implemented. In general, I think that it is not possible to impose any coercive mechanism when it comes to the Supreme Court's decisions as the Supreme Court, including, above all, those made in the area of constitutional supervision. Just the authority of the Supreme Court itself must ensure that the decisions are enforced. Unfortunately, I do not imagine any other measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U60	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U61	Dear Priit Pikamäe! I liked the answer you gave to Mr Urve Tiid's speech that you dare to decide and that the judge must certainly be such a man or a woman. If you look back on these long years of hard work, these serious decisions, is there anything that it's painful to think about? I'm not thinking about any particular decisions, but have we had to make decisions that make the soul even scribble afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U62	I'm sure it is! What you can deny is that justice is not as passionate a process as it seems outside. The secret of the conference room, of course, applies, but the judges are also human, and the judges also have their emotions. At other times, these emotions are difficult to keep quiet, and disputes become very hot and sharp. I am sure that there have also been some things that you might think about afterwards, whether the decision was correct or whether it could have been decided differently. Unfortunately, these are things that remain alive because, when the judgment has entered into force, it is usually not possible to withdraw them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U63	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U64	Mr. Tall Mountain! In public as well as here in the Riigikogu, a discussion about the institution of public judges arose a few months ago. The chairwoman of the Harju County Court has been critical of this institution and has heard the opinions of others that it has become obsolete. I would like to ask you here for your position on the future of the people's judiciary as an institution. Are they needed, and if so, what role could they play?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U65	I am generally of the opinion that the institution of national judges should remain. If we look at justice in criminal matters in particular, then, of course, the models used in the world are very different. There are two particular extremes. One is that the law is understood only by a professional formation of the court, and the other is that the law is administered by a jury on important matters. Our system, which combines a professional judge and co-workers, takes place somewhere in the middle of this scheme, and I think this approach is the right one. However, in the case of more difficult matters, justice needs to maintain its link with society, with the people who are subject to justice. And when we look at international recommendations in this area, they are rather in the direction that the participation of society in justice should be enhanced. I think that we would lose a great deal in this regard by eliminating the institution of the judge of the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U66	Thank you very much, Priit Pikamäe. Any more questions for the waitress? No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us move to preparing the final vote on this draft. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote a draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Appointing the President of the Supreme Court of Priit Pikamäe' presented by the President of the Republic, Toomas Hendrik Ilves. I would remind you that, as a result of § 79 (2) (3) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, voting at the Riigikogu session is secret when the President of the Supreme Court is appointed. Ladies and gentlemen, please take a stand and vote. Results of the vote 89 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with 2 abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision. Congratulations! Priit Pikamäe has been appointed chairman of the Supreme Court! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U67	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Social Democratic Party Group and members of the Riigikogu Rainer Vakra, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laanet and Deniss Borodichi Act amending the Act amending the Law on Family Benefits, Social Welfare and Employment Services and Benefits. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! Thank you for the opportunity to present draft Socialists and Democrats 399, in other words, the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. Draft 399 was created by the 'need-based' aim of ensuring that needs-based family support can reach the children of the poorest families. It wasn't very long ago when we discussed the Social Welfare Act and the related Amendment Act 357 in this Chamber. This draft would have solved two pressing problems at the same time: both child support and needs-based family support would have reached the children of the poorest families. Indeed, with the draft on 19 March, we wanted to put an end to the situation where one category of people is essentially deprived of child benefit, and precisely those who would need it most, namely the recipients of the income support. After all, child benefit is taken into account as an income in need, which means that the person receives income support less. Unfortunately, the proposal to separate child benefit and income support was not supported in this Chamber. With the 399 bill, we want to extend the number of need-based family benefits to families whose income exceeds the limit of relative poverty, but who, after paying their housing costs, will be left with an amount below the subsistence threshold. Our aim is to alleviate the growing inequality and conflicting appreciation that further divides society. It is sad that the current universal child benefit is included in the family's income when it comes to the provision of income support and, of course, that the limit on relative poverty is so low. For one person, it is currently EUR 280 per month, while for a child under 14 years of age the coefficient in this formula is 0.3. For example, a mother who is working on a rather low salary and is raising one or two children alone may lose needs-based child support. The creation of needs-based family support was intended, according to the draft explanatory memorandum, to provide more support to those who actually need help and who have more children. Unfortunately, the law adopted does not guarantee that needs-based family support can be reached by families living in the highest poverty. And this change is highly baptized for "child support reform"! Take, for example, a mother working on a minimum wage who raises two children under 14 years of age who receives a net salary of just under 300 euros, plus a child allowance of 38,36 euros for two children and 150 euros for a living. The monthly income is approximately 500 euros per month and, after deduction of the permanent costs of housing, the family receives less than 190 euros each month, thus receiving income support during the winter months. As such a family has a poverty threshold of EUR 448, they lose needs-based family support. Such examples could be more and more. Maybe I'll also tell you that our income support limit has gotten in the way of time. It is far too low to cope in an emergency and does not meet the requirements of the Social Charter. According to the most recent data from Statistics Estonia (from 2011 onwards), the minimum subsistence rate for a single-member household, i.e. the limit of absolute poverty, is 186.26 euros, of which 85.10 euros is spent on food alone. The first member of the family receiving income support must cope with EUR 76.70, each subsequent family member EUR 61.65 per month, which must be available to meet the immediate needs of clothing, food, footwear and other goods and services. The draft extends the range of need-based family benefits to families receiving subsistence support, where children receiving child benefit are raised. Honourable ambassadors! Now, in a few words, too, the small costs that come when our bill enters into force as a law, as well as the expected revenue. In the Committee on Social Affairs, according to the Ministry of Social Affairs, in January and February 2013 there were a total of 40 families with children receiving income support, including a total of 48% of families with one child, who would not be entitled to need-based family benefit according to the amendment to the Act coming into force on 1 July. We did a little math here. The need-based family allowance for children in households receiving income support increases the cost of the need-based family allowance during the heating period by an average of EUR 335 per month. Such households outside the heating period would generally not qualify as recipients of income support. Thus, if the draft law came into force in 2013, an additional EUR 1350 would be needed to pay for the need-based family allowance. Moreover, the implementation of the law reduces social inequalities by ending a situation where need-based family support does not reach all families receiving income support. The Social Democrats and Democrats believe that the law should enter into force in general terms, in other words, within 10 days of the publication in the State's Official Journal. Please support our draft, all the more so as the Government, in its opinion, has also said that this hole in the law needs to be patched up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U69	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U70	Good waitress! I think this bill is a good bill, but a few questions have arisen. The municipality or municipality shall decide on the need-based family allowance within 10 working days of submission of all documents. Often, during summer periods, municipalities have municipal or municipal meetings every two weeks so that they simply do not arrive within 10 days. Couldn't this deadline be a little longer?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U71	This deadline may be considered, but there is currently a similar procedure for determining income support.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U72	Please, Aivar Chef, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U73	The second question is payment. Does it make sense that local governments have cashiers? Doesn't everyone today have a bank account to pay the money to or send it by mail?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U74	I think the money's still on the bank account.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U75	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. I would like to ask for a co-report from Maret Maripuu, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act at its meeting on 7 May. On behalf of the initiators, Heljo Pikhof presented the draft; the position of the Government of the Republic had been presented to the Commission by the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. The Minister said that the Government of the Republic decided at its meeting on 18 April to support the draft principle of providing needs-based family support to all families with children receiving income support, but not to support the draft as proposed. The draft requires some clarification. In general, families with children receiving income support are also entitled to need-based family benefit, as the income limit for need-based family benefits is much higher than the subsistence limit. Statistics show that situations in which families with children receive income support but are not justified by the need for family benefits are relatively rare. In 2012, there were 58 such families, 40 in the first two months of 2013. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that, in these cases too, they are recipients of income support and that these families could also be further supported by the state. Thus, the government sees the need to amend the Social Welfare Act in a way that also provides additional income for families with children receiving income support who do not receive needs-based family benefits. In commenting on the draft, the Minister noted the following shortcomings: According to the draft, a family whose members include at least one child receiving child benefit under the State Family Benefits Act is entitled to the need-based family allowance if the family members receive income support. The draft and the explanatory memorandum do not specify the month in which the provision of income support should be based on the need-based family allowance. According to the draft, the municipality or city government will determine the need-based family allowance for the month following the month in which the application for income support is submitted. The draft law and the explanatory memorandum do not justify why it is desirable to grant a need-based family allowance for a period of only one month if, in other cases, it is set at three months. The draft is planned to enter into force in general, on the 10th day following publication in the Official Journal of the State. The government points out that such a period of enforcement is not realistic. On 12 December 2012, the Riigikogu adopted the Act amending the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, according to which amendments relating to the need-based family benefits procedure will enter into force as from 1 June 2013. According to this deadline, development work in the Social Services and Support Data Register is also planned. An amendment to the right to need-based family support for all beneficiaries of income support entails the need for new development work that is neither planned in time nor planned financially. It is therefore not possible to carry out further development work in the Social Services and Support Data Register so quickly as to enable the draft to be enforced in a general manner. The volume of development can be estimated after the basis for granting the aid has been clarified. The Minister in the Commission also said that his aim was to raise the income support limit from next year. There was a constructive debate in the Commission, and the representative of the initiators agreed on any technical changes that the law would need to make, as well as that the date of entry into force should be postponed in order to ensure that the corresponding IT solutions are also completed. On the basis of the foregoing, the Commission took the following consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 14 May, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 28 May. The last decision was to appoint Maret Maripuu as rapporteur for the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U77	Honourable waitress! The position of the Government of the Republic includes this sentence: 'The introduction of specialties /... / may significantly increase the cost of development work, the cost of development work may prove disproportionate in view of the small number of families receiving support and the amount of aid to be paid. " What do you think, can any child be left without support because development can be too expensive?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U78	Honourable waitress! When the Commission was dealing with a bill that wanted to clarify the Social Welfare Act, the Family Benefits Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, was it said that such a gap could arise in the calculation of income support and needs-based support?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U79	I don't dare tell by memory what was being discussed at the time. I did not think that such a problem was raised. But I don't dare confirm it by heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U80	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U81	This must be discussed by the Commission during the procedure. The current draft does not allow for ex post compensation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U82	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U83	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U84	Good Heljo! You were present at the same committee meeting and heard that the minister also said that this problem needed to be resolved and that optimal solutions needed to be found for every child entitled to receive support to receive it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U85	Dear waitress, You said that the Government of the Republic is of the opinion that this bill needs to be slightly amended; it is not suitable for adoption in its current form. You also noted that the Minister said that neither in time nor financially can this be done quickly. Are there 58 families that you mentioned in 2012 and 40 this year in any way on hold? What will happen to these families if the law is amended and our proposal is adopted? Will they be compensated afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U86	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you, Maret Maripuu! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 399. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. May 28th, 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U87	We are going to the third item on today's agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, 401. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu Neeme Suur!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U88	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a pleasure to present to you a draft law 401 of the Social Democratic Party on the amendment of the Local Government Organisation Act. I will begin by explaining what is the main objective of this draft. The most important objective is to support the voluntary accession of municipalities. We know that the biggest problems in the functioning of local governments are the lack of commitment and funding, but we are not talking about this issue within the framework of this bill. We are talking about structures and structural structures. The Social Democrats believe that form and content must be consistent, today we are talking a little bit more about form. We know that parliamentary parties have very different views on both self-governing administrative organisation and administrative reform. Rather, the Reform Party thinks that there is no need for specific changes, that everything is there, that everything works, and that municipalities just need to work together more to make things better. The Centre Party considers it particularly important to increase the financial opportunities of the municipalities, the IRL emphasises structural changes and does not talk much about monetary matters, and the Social Democrats deal with both structural changes and financing. So the views are somewhat different. However, there is one thing in which all four parliamentary parties, at least as far as I know, agree on this voluntary merger of municipalities. Voluntary accession is considered to be positive and to be supported. The best expression of this position is the recent draft law on the administrative division of the Estonian territory, on the facilitation of the merger of local government units and on the amendment of the Public Transport Act, which was adopted very unanimously on 27 February. 62 members of the Riigikogu were in favour, 1 was against, 2 were impartial. So the consensus was pretty big. This one vote against and two abstentions in voting on this particular law to facilitate accession were due to the fact that the draft was exchanged for the functional integrity of territorial integrity. If you remember, it was the islands. It is likely that this was also due to the vote against. The 401 bill can be considered as a logical continuation of the Act to facilitate the merger of local government units. As I said at the beginning, its main objective is to support voluntary accession. Structural changes are also important in this respect. The Social Democrats do not think that it is enough simply to give local governments an accession bonus or to set up a little bit of public transport. Fundamental changes to the structure are also important; the structure must enable and facilitate voluntary accession. Speaking of the motivation behind this draft, it was completely practical. As you know, this year too, several municipalities have entered the voluntary path of accession. Specifically in Läänemaa, eight municipalities started accession negotiations, of which finally, let's say, four went to the finals and three reached the finish line. The four who went to the finals were the municipalities of Nõva, Taebla, Valu and Risti, during the final process Nõva decided not to join. A survey was conducted on the territory of these four municipalities, public meetings were held, and the issue of municipalities arose at each meeting. Voluntary membership is not limited to attraction centres. When we think about Läänemaa, the attraction centre of Läänemaa is Haapsalu, and if we go further with this idea, then the attraction centre of Läänemaa is Tallinn. Municipalities join voluntarily within logical boundaries and these logical boundaries are often not concentrated around a single centre, but sometimes they are equivalent centres located in scattered territory, similar to those that decide to go deep into cooperation. In such cases, the topic of the municipalities arises every time officials or residents discuss the merger of the municipalities. It's not just a problem or an idea in Läänemaa. Take the Peipsivere region, for example, it is Tartu- or Jõgevamaa, we can take the edge areas of Pärnumaa, we can take the edge areas of Järva- and Põlvamaa anywhere where there are scattered settlements and small centres that are next to each other, the question of the position of the community or local government in the new municipality always arises when discussing the merger. The question in the air is whether we are talking about dominance in the merger process of local governments, about some kind of center dominating some other, smaller centre, or whether we are directing the municipalities towards co-operation between equivalent centres. The topic of the municipalities is primarily about cooperation. It is also a question of why so little is used. After all, KOKS still offers the opportunity to create divisions. There are currently only three municipalities that use the possibility of creating private municipalities or districts in Tallinn, Vinni and Väike-Maarja. I hear Little Maarja's about to give it up. Now the question is, why is that? The question is also why the municipalities of Läänemaa discussed the issue of the municipalities, but did not reach the point of forming them. It always comes down to what the status of a public authority gives. In the current KOKS, the concept of "participative" is rather weakly described and, as it is today, it does not give the community the confidence that could be given in the process of inter-community accession negotiations. I guess that's why people often give up skills. That's what started the idea of developing today's bill. According to the draft, the municipality or district has an administrative body. Also today, all these three municipalities have their own collegiate decision-making or representative body in their respective municipalities, which, according to the draft, would become the rule. This rule would give the community confidence that, when a division is created, an administrative body will certainly be set up with the government of that municipality. Right now, the law doesn't give that kind of certainty. According to the draft, the administrative body would also have its own specific functions. As far as the independence of local governments is concerned, this draft does not go too far into the functions of these administrative bodies and does not give them extensive legal powers. In most cases, the decision-making power remains with the municipality. However, there is one important aspect to the draft: if the parent of a municipality or district is appointed, the municipality or municipality government should take into account the position of the administrative body in doing so. This is the same aspect that gives the community, who hesitates to join or not, who does not know clearly what the position of the community will be in the new, joined municipality, the confidence that the opinion of the local population will be taken into account. According to the draft, the district or municipality administration also has the right to propose the dismissal of the district or municipality parent, but only the proposed decision is still adopted by the municipality. The parent of a municipality or district would also be obliged to report to the administrative body. The reporting obligation in itself does not create a direct relationship of subordination, but it provides the local agency with the opportunity to participate directly in the management process of the territorial sub-unit and make its proposals to the parent, city government or mayor or mayor of the municipality of the municipality of the district or municipality of the municipality. The Government of the Republic has said that the management process will get so messed up if there is a management body. We may call it a representative or collegial body in different ways, but according to the draft, the precise limits of the activities of this administrative body will be determined by the municipality itself. So that the sovereignty of the municipality doesn't change in any way. The Government of the Republic has made a negative assessment of this draft. Unfortunately, if you read these points, it is not very well understood why a negative assessment should be made when there is an excellent opportunity to supplement the draft between the first and second reading. For example, the first point of the opinion of the Government of the Republic states that the draft explanatory memorandum does not analyse the extent to which the vision of the mandatory administrative body violates the decision-making power of the municipality. Ladies and gentlemen, the law defines the whole self-governing governance structure: the council, its committees, the mandatory existence of the audit committee, the composition of the audit committee. The law also determines the management structure of a municipality-managed institution, such as a school, saying that the school must have an administrative body. And we're not protesting, claiming that we're somehow restricting or narrowing the authority's power. Nor does it want to narrow down the power of the municipality of the bill. The second issue raised by the Government of the Republic is the inclusion of a governing body. Who really will the parent of the municipality or the district be subject to when he or she is obliged to report to the administrative body? The reporting obligation itself is not a management instrument. The reporting obligation is an obligation to inform and gives the administration the opportunity to be informed and, on this basis, to develop its proposals. The third point in the view of the Government of the Republic is quite interesting: the government claims that if the administrative body, district or division were to become stronger, the municipalities might opt out of their formation. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that at present only three local governments are the largest among them, Tallinn, but only three local governments who use the state or district institution and fear that this change will reduce them even further. Then it's gotta be pretty bad. Rather, if the community is told in the course of voluntary accession that if you join, you will not lose your position, but that your municipality or district will certainly have an administrative body that will be able to contribute to the appointment of a district or municipality parent, make your proposals, including, for example, to recall a municipality parent, it will certainly increase your confidence. The bill thus serves its purpose, i.e. promotes voluntary accession. Of course, there may be a question here as to whether an institution of a municipality should be permanent, or permanent, in one of the associated municipalities, or whether it could be some sort of transition phase after the merger to grow together, to practice it would also be one way of doing so, or whether a new administrative model, innovative, community-based and participatory democracy, would emerge from the system. This might be the subject of a discussion of the future, but this discussion could be held and continued, first and foremost, if this draft were to remain in the process. I would like to ask all my fellow Members to support the draft. The questions we have upstairs can be solved between two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U89	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U90	Thank you for the waitress's explanation. But there were some things that got a little crazy. Like this one. I understand from the first paragraph of § 571 that it is such a binding presumption of the appointment of a municipality or district parent that the administrative body gives its consent. However, you said that in the case of the release of a municipality or a district parent, this is only a proposal from the administrative body, there is nothing binding on it. I think it's a little disproportionate. Don't you see the danger of an eternal stalemate? That, for one reason or another, the Administrative Council does not gather votes to elect one, another or a third parent candidate, and that person is not appointed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U91	The emergence of a state of sin is a very interesting opportunity in politics at all. If I have been asked what size this decision-making body should be, I have always said that there should be an even number of these people so that there can be a stalemate. Because if there is a stalemate, the parties must go to in-depth negotiations and an even-number decision-making body always comes up with a decision with more legitimacy than an odd number. With odd numbers, it's definitely easier. But it was just an example. As for the disagreements between the administration of the municipality and the administration of the municipality, that is what I am talking about. When a local community, i.e. one municipality, switches to the accession process, it begins to discuss its position in the new major field. Does anyone dominate, does anyone get suppressed, is it equal to a partner, isn't it equal to a partner? If it is known that the newly elected city or rural municipality government must take into account the opinion of the administrative body when a municipality or district parent is appointed, this is certainly a very clear message to the local community that their opinion is important and must be taken into account. It is true, as the questioner mentioned, that the dismissal would be merely a proposal from the administrative body, because we do not create a direct relationship of subordination between the administrative body and the parent of the municipality or municipality. The relationship of jurisdiction does not really arise, but the dismissal would require the existence of such a relationship.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U92	Thank you. Please, Meelis Mälberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U93	Good colleague! You have planned the entry into force of the draft in general terms, so certainly before the municipal elections in autumn. How would the draft, if it were to enter into force and become a law, affect the work of the administrative bodies that are already in operation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U94	Currently, there are three municipalities: Tallinn City, Vinni Municipality and Väike-Maarja Municipality, who have the status of a district or municipality. The relevant regulation exists in Tallinn. I don't know what's gonna happen to Little Maarja, because I hear she's giving up her patronage. The municipality of Vinni is likely to make certain changes, but there would probably be no major restructuring in Tallinn. When I prepared this bill, I followed very closely how things are regulated in Tallinn. So there will probably be no very big changes in the capital, except for certain aspects of the statutes of the urban districts. These relate specifically to competence, such as the granting of parental consent and the making of proposals for the district.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U95	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U96	Good waitress! Here's the question. Unfortunately, you were not able to report this draft yourself in the committee, but your groupmates called it the draft for mitigating the fears of accession. Why don't you specify what kind of fear these are? You just gave the Läänemaa example, is that the only one? What is this particular fear that we can take down with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U97	Thank you, good question! The merger of municipalities is a very emotional issue. Because the municipality is not just a service office but, above all, a model of community functioning. It is for this reason that accession creates various fears among community representatives. If the municipality had a firm position already, perhaps the creation of the municipalities in Läänemaa would have been an option and we would have had Nõva behind the table. Today, he is alone with his 300-400 inhabitants, and it is very difficult to predict how he will cope. I don't know what's going to happen. What is the basic fear? The main fear is that people fear that their community's position in large government will become weaker. If there is a small municipality, it still has its own possibilities, but it has its own. If there is a large local government, there are greater opportunities, but they are no longer so, they are always in trouble with someone, and in that case they fear a deterioration in position. This bill will certainly reduce this fear by giving the opportunity to form a domain. A division is also a unit which enables the position of the community to be protected. Why are they giving up skills now? It's just because you don't think a division will allow you to defend the positions of the community as it should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U98	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U99	Good waitress! I'm also a fiery supporter of municipalities and districts. But there are a few questions. The creation of a municipality is also possible according to the current KOKS, but if this is the case, there should be a very specific knowledge of the activities that the division will organise in the region. I'm sure it would make the community feel like they're left with something. Here's what I'm gonna ask you. Is it true that the municipality or district manager is appointed by the city or municipality government on the proposal of the mayor or the mayor? Maybe it should be for the council to decide. Just as the council decides on the mayor and the mayor, it may be necessary for him to appoint the chairman of the municipality or district. This would give that leader a different mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U100	This is a very constructive proposal. This would be another step towards deepening the institutional legitimacy of the municipality or district. The bill we have on the table right now is rather cautious. We did not move the municipality out of the field of executive power as a whole. This falls within the sphere of executive power, i.e. the mayor or the mayor of the municipality proposes to the city or rural municipality administration and, according to the draft, they appoint a municipality or district parent with the consent of the administrative body. But your proposal is certainly constructive and we could discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U101	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U102	Surely it is a very respectable principle that community affairs are decided as close to the population as possible. But what about now? It is written in the draft and you have also repeatedly stressed this aspect that the authority and nature of the administrative body is established by the municipal or city council. Thus, as the possibility remains that a municipal or city council may define the competence of an administrative body as such that it could actually be a decision-making or management body, but at the same time the administrative body may become some vague representative body, which is primarily governed by paragraphs 6 and 7 of the relevant section and which is generally only open to hearing. How can you imagine how many administrative bodies, whose competence is really determined so that we can talk about the quantity of local decision-making, could occur in reality?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U103	Everything depends, in particular, on the statutes of a municipality or part of a city, to be laid down by the council. It is possible for this basic regulation to provide the administrative body with the functions that the municipality considers necessary. But in this sense, you have the right point of view that at one point, when the council decides to significantly expand the functions of the administrative body, the question posed by Mr Koka may arise whether it should not be the council itself who puts the administrative body and also the municipality or district parent in place. This is such an administrative debate nuanced about the whole thing. According to the draft, the council may determine matters which are not to be decided without the opinion of the administrative board. Once again, this bill is more cautious. We do not want to take this slippery path, to which the position of the Government of the Republic refers, 'is it not contrary to Article 6 (1) of the European Charter on Local Government, which says that we must not intervene very deeply in the management of the local government?' This bill leaves the municipality with a very large margin of discretion. He would broadly define two principles. One principle is that there is an administrative body, and the other principle is that when a parent is appointed for a district or municipality, the position of the administrative body is taken into account. In addition, the parent is also obliged to report to the administrative body. Three of these principles. The rest is already to be organised by the municipality itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U104	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U105	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been in the middle of it myself. I've taken out three of my skills. Unfortunately, these divisions created rivalry and misuse of money. A school was built that wasn't really needed there, but since the two municipalities had a school, the third had to have a school. However, I ask about the administrative body: what mandate does the administrative body have? In fact, the people who have received a mandate from the people should decide whether to be elected to the council or to the council. But what mandate does the administrative body have? Who chooses these people? The people have not chosen them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U106	There are still different practices in the formation of administrative bodies. Tallinn's practice is that administrative collections are made up of people who participated in the election of the municipality and who have some sort of catch of votes. According to the draft, this regulation is left to the discretion of the municipality, which determines who the administrative body is to form. The bill says that these people must not belong to an administrative apparatus, either to the municipal administration or to the administration of a municipality or municipality. That's no way to get around. Thus, the formation of the administrative body is in principle left to the decision of the municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U107	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U108	We have talked a lot about administrative reform, and I understand that this draft, as you have said yourself, is also motivated by it. Perhaps there would be an additional opportunity to create a large estate if the current parish elders were to become the leaders of the municipalities? They would then have a place and pay insurance for four years, just as in Finland wages for five years for former parish parents and mayors will be secured.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U109	That, too, is an interesting idea. We have had a very long-term process of administrative reform and, as I said at the beginning, parliamentary parties have different positions here: one way and the other. The adoption of this draft would certainly encourage voluntary mergers of municipalities and create a more positive background for deeper cooperation between municipalities at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U110	Thank you. Please, Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U111	Good waitress! One of the main objectives of the draft, as you have repeatedly said, is to avoid the fear of a smaller community that their position after accession will be weakened. In practice, these issues have so far been resolved by the parties' accession agreement. Can you explain why your draft law works better than the merger agreement between the parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U112	For the simple reason that the Accession Treaty is a debt-law relationship, this draft law creates a legislative framework. The debt-law relationship is always weaker than the legal form of action. We know that the Accession Treaty is valid for only one period, and just as with all contracts, so the Accession Treaty is either fulfilled or not fulfilled. It may happen that, after the elections, the accession agreement will immediately be ignored, and then there will be a pretty exciting moment. It is very interesting who will defend the rights of the community if the accession agreement is ignored and the rights of the community are violated. Then one of the community's representatives must take up the defence of the community. If, in the same situation, it were a municipality or a district formed according to the bill, then there would certainly be an opportunity to protect the interests of the community.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U113	Thank you. Please, Aare Heinvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U114	Dear waitress, My question is about identity. Who or what do you think is the bearer of community identity? Is this a settlement, like a village? After all, a few years ago, social infrastructure thematic plans were approved in the counties, and then very clear sets came up, which were called 'ports'. How can we ensure that these identity bearers are represented in participatory democracy, or council?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U115	That's a very good question again! All I can say is that a stronger implementation of the divisions, a wider use of the authority of the divisions in the self-governing administration will certainly contribute to the preservation of identity communities. In this way, the same draft supports the preservation of identity communities. There are, of course, many opportunities today, in terms of voluntary cooperation, cooperation between residents, and settling societies. However, when we talk about representation, we can also talk about the formation of electoral circles in the post-accession period, so perhaps a certain number of delegates from one municipality will be elected. But in this case, we are still talking about the joining municipality and the electoral community in its territory, not so much about community-based functioning. The smaller the municipality, the more similar the borders of the municipality and the community. When the municipality gets bigger, communities can be left alone. Today's draft talks about holding and strengthening the positions of the municipalities, as well as the former local governments, after accession. This will help to alleviate the fear of less representativeness of communities, in the face of no longer being heard. In this sense, it is a draft that directly supports voluntary accession.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U116	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U117	Good waitress, I'll ask you this. A person who received only three to five votes in a municipal election may also enter the administrative body. Is it right that a person with such a catch of votes is going to veto a district parent's election? What mandate does he have to veto like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U118	Finally, this is not a two-tier municipality. If we wanted to create a two-tier government, we would form a public authority and give it full authority to the administrative body. What mandate does the Administrative Council have? The board receives its mandate through the elected city or rural municipality government and council, who has received their mandate from the people. There are two nuances about this. One is that the same elected city or rural municipality government and council must set up an administrative body on the spot if they have agreed to have a municipality or district. And the second nuance is that this administrative body has the right to participate in the choice of its parent.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U119	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U120	Good waitress! Reading this bill and listening to the debate in this Chamber, the impression remains and deepens that it is a very constructive draft and necessary law. Unfortunately, the Commission proposes not to discuss this draft any further. What do you think is the reason? Is there no desire to deal with the issue of administrative reform, or is it simply a question of the wrong side of the proposal? This is a draft tabled by the opposition and therefore perhaps the Commission has proposed to vote it out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U121	Why the Commission did not support the draft can ask the Commission's waitress who will come to the remote immediately after me. What do I think? I think that it is true that it is always difficult, in some way, to introduce structural changes in order to improve self-governing administration. It's easy to say, be good and join, we'll give you a little extra membership bonus, make sure things don't get messy with public transport. It is a good and simple approach, everyone is voting in favour, everyone is happy, but it does not really produce the effect that we want. If we want the municipalities to join voluntarily, then there must be fundamental formal structures and frameworks. This bill penetrates the world of the functioning of the municipalities with caution, not like a wolf, but with the idea that the municipalities would join more boldly if the status of a municipality or a district was higher than today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U122	Thank you. Please, Aare Heinvee, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U123	Good waitress! I will continue with the extension of the previous question. The aim of the draft is very good; I certainly support it. At the same time, seeing the merger of the two municipalities very closely and analysing other analogs, I came to an interesting conclusion. When, before joining, villages were like in the comfort zone, they were under someone's very protective cover, then after joining, they felt they had to work on themselves so as not to get out of the picture. It produced amazingly positive results. They came to the picture, they had a very clear distinction, identity, and in the end they were all very pleased. What is your view of such a process?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U124	This process, which you described, that is, the activation of civil society after the local government has distanced itself, is one of the positive effects of joining the local governments. But why doesn't it offer complete solutions? Because it is relatively easy to ignore the same civil society at both central and local levels. That is why we are trying to make the formal structure a little more concrete so that the citizens' initiative can be expressed through the local representative body. A good example is the same accession process in Läänemaa. One municipality proposed to set up a village elders' assembly in the new merged municipality, but unfortunately the other negotiators did not agree to this at the table and this item did not enter the accession agreement. The functioning of civil society is absolutely necessary and, if civil society is very strong, it is also very effective. The provision of official, law-based support will particularly contribute to the representation of distributed areas and 'edge areas'.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U125	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U126	Good waitress! My question concerns the formation of an administrative body and its impact. There are two options. One is that an administrative body is formed on the basis of the results of the election. Being elected in the city of Tallinn, I know that people who have received 5, 7 or 20 votes will also sit in the current administrative collections. To say that it is like a mandate from the people, quite right as it is not. The second form of formation is that the council appoints the members of the administrative body. In this case, do you not think that there is a risk that the administration will be extended by the municipal or municipal government in power? Even then, this body is not a representative of the people. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U127	Yes, both threats are real, they exist. In the first case, we may ask that the person applied, he did not receive the votes he then represents in the administration. In smaller municipalities, it is sometimes the case that if the composition of the local government council has to change, for example, if they are unable to choose the municipality's parent or approve the budget, they will change completely and the people will be represented in the local government by the so-called second or third round, whose number of votes may be relatively small. But in any case, these people have been nominated for municipal elections and have shown willingness to participate in the work of the municipality. The second question was whether it was an extension of the hand. In the current situation, it is in any case the feeling that the administrative body of a municipality or district, and especially the parent, is an extension of the rural municipality or city administration, or an extension of the mayor's or the mayor's parent's hand directly. Today's draft does not go too far into the principles of establishing an administrative body, but leaves it up to the municipality. At the same time, it gives the administrative body a little more functions that specifically concern the appointment of a parent. This will certainly strengthen the position of the administrative body. If the position of the administrative body is strengthened, more attention will certainly be paid to it. And if more attention is paid, it will be the subject of a political debate on the ground. I think this draft rather supports the position of the administrative body.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U128	Thank you. Please, Tiina Lock-Tramberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U129	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Have you also thought about the drafting of this bill that there are certain limits to formation in the municipalities? What should be the number of inhabitants who would be entitled to form a mastermind? Some of the municipalities are very small. It's not even that big.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U130	There is no limit. Cute is pretty small. The border island was offered to join the Kallas, they didn't want to. They're even smaller. There's no way you can determine not to do that by the number of people. However, this regulation allows for a flexible approach to the function of public administration. After all, every municipality has its own statute and it allows more tasks to be assigned to a larger municipality, a smaller one, just as local capacity allows. So this draft will also provide flexibility in the operation of municipalities or districts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U131	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Neeme the Great! I ask for a co-report from Priit Sibula, member of the rural committee in the chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed this draft a week ago on Tuesday, 7 May. I must say that the debate was more or less the same as it was today. The questions that were put to Mr Neeme the Great today were all the same in the Commission. So I'm not gonna stop for a very long time. A few words on the subject of identity. We argued whether it was based on population or administrative units, different people had a slightly different understanding. The idea of the draft was generally clear to all the members of the Commission and seemed noble, but I did not think that all the members of the Commission were convinced that the objectives set out in the explanatory memorandum could materialise if this draft was adopted. The second question that came up next to identity was leadership. Many felt that the governance structure was becoming even more complex. If the administrative body should be set up on a compulsory basis and it should start to accept or recall the parents of a district or municipality, who is the parent of the district or municipality responsible for the council, city administration or administrative body? The third important issue was what my colleague, Deniss Borodich, asked about here. In particular, since the draft does not stipulate how the administrative body will be set up, in the case of small merged municipalities, a person who is not known or accepted by the local authorities will suddenly be put in the position of parenthood. The draft does not specify how the administrative body will be set up. As has been said, one way is for the members of the administrative body to be appointed. Then, however, no one can be convinced that it will be either local residents or people who support the parent of the municipality. In this sense, we cannot be convinced that the draft will certainly serve its purpose and that it will make sense in this form at all. Those were the questions we asked. But, of course, the topic is wide, from the Cross municipality to the city of Tallinn. The local governments are very different, and the Commission's members also have different personal experiences. Finally, the Commission took decisions: firstly, to appoint me rapporteur by the Commission, secondly, to propose that the draft be on the agenda of the plenary session today and be rejected. 4 members of the Commission voted in favour, 2 against and 1 abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U133	Thank you very much. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U134	Honourable waitress! In the case of democracy, there are two golden rules: power must not move away from the people and decision-making must be at the lowest possible level. When municipalities unite, people in remote areas are just afraid that power and decision-making will move away from them. Our bill mitigates these fears and thus encourages the voluntary association of rural municipalities. This approach is not appropriate for the coalition. Do you have a solution of your own and better, or do you really think that paying compensation to the municipal parents who lose their job will smooth all the problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U135	Firstly, you are talking about the positions of the coalition and opposition. I don't know if they're that uniform. I have also spoken with members of the opposition, and in some cases I have not noticed much enthusiasm for supporting this draft. So it may not be the case at all that the coalition has one purpose and another understanding of the opposition. Of course, we also like it when decisions are made as close to the people as possible. When we talk about small rural governments, the village movement, the village institution, should certainly be strengthened. Perhaps one day we will have to discuss in this Chamber whether the institutionalisation of villages or the life of the village itself will play some moves in our hands, that people will become more active and participate more in the work of local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U136	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U137	Good waitress! Several times it has been said that one of the shortcomings of the draft is that the draft does not determine the procedure for determining the administrative body. Did the Commission make concrete proposals on how to complement the draft in such a way as to clarify the procedure for setting up an administrative body?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U138	No, this issue was not discussed in the Commission. There are probably two ways to do this: either to base the election results or to determine it. There are plus and minuses in both versions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U139	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U140	Dear waitress, Many have said here today that this document is called a bill to mitigate the fears of a merger. I totally agree with that, and I'd say this bill hits the nail on the head. The state has reduced its functions in villages, village centres, municipalities, peripheral areas are on the outskirts of the country, and the door of local government is the only place where they can enter with their own concerns. Now that there is an administrative reform, it is clear that the people of small municipalities are afraid of what will happen next, who will remain to represent their community. In my opinion, this draft softens this whole administrative reform. Has the regional minister read this bill, and if so, what does he think about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U141	I assume the regional minister has read it. He also visited the Commission, along with Officer Ave Viks, to present this draft and explain the positions of the government. Neeme the Great gave an overview of the government's positions, and these were the answers prepared by the Minister for Regional Affairs. In a way, I can't agree with you. I live in Sangaste County, and there's a parish elder from the same party where this bill comes from. I don't know if he represents me or doesn't represent me, but we're getting along pretty well and all our stuff done. In general, however, I have so far not had much to do in this area. The door has really been open, but I've gone in because my parish elder and I know each other, not because I need to solve a few things there. So let's not confuse the community movement and the fact that people have no one else to communicate with, and then they go and talk to the parish elder. I don't think that's exactly what we need a local government manager for.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U142	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U143	Good waitress! The draft we are discussing also concerns Tallinn as a municipality. Members of Parliament have, of course, formed a support group for the city of Tallinn. When this draft was discussed in the committee, was the representative of the Tallinn Support Group invited and, if so, what is the position of the Tallinn Support Group on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U144	No member of the committee said that he was a member of the Tallinn Support Group of the Riigikogu and expressed the views of this support group. So it did not arise as a separate topic that Tallinn's support group discussed something in one way or the other on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U145	Please, Reet Roos!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U146	Good waitress! Did it become clearer in the Commission where the parent of a municipality or district is liable to the council, the mayor or the administrative body? Is that what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U147	No, I couldn't figure it out. This was one of the problems that was being discussed in the Commission and which remained. This draft does not specifically address this issue. At the same time, I think Neeme the Great previously explained what the draft requires in this regard. However, there was no consensus that this change could improve the structure and simplify it in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U148	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U149	Good waitress! I have a relatively practical question. You said that the idea in itself is very good, I mean improving the functions of the administration body. I remember from the time I was working at the Tallinn City Government, that the Reform Party and the IRL have always stood for the administration to have more powers and powers, especially when choosing the parents of the district. However, you have confirmed that there are a great many issues that need to be resolved. Why did the Commission decide to reject the draft? Perhaps it would have been more constructive to think instead of how to better implement a good idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U150	Honourable waitress! Having lived in a small municipality and talked to many people, I know that in fact many people think that such an administrative body, or representation, could really have joined a larger local government. You are also the chairman of the Setumaa supporting group here in the Riigikogu, and Setumaa has many times heard the idea of creating one of the great rural municipalities of Setumaa. Many people believe that if the centre came to Värska, it would be very logical for there to be divisions that would remain within the boundaries of the present parishes, and life would go on. Have you asked these local government leaders what the attitude of people in the rural municipalities of Setumaa is about this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U151	I didn't ask, but on Friday, I was driving around Meremägi with people in Värska and Mikitamägi, and no man brought it up.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U152	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U153	Good waitress! If this bill were to be adopted miraculously, would you consider that management of the municipality would be worse, better or nothing would change from the perspective of the residents?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U154	I look forward to this miracle.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U155	Thank you very much. No more questions for the performer. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal was to reject draft 401 at first reading and we must vote on this proposal. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 401 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 65 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 23 against and no abstentions. The proposal of the lead committee has been adopted, the draft falls outside the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the end of today's sitting. Have a good day and see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 12.14 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U156	I have never worked in Tallinn City Government, but one of the topics that was discussed with Tallinn was that if the council has previously taken into account the views of the administrative councils on the issue of planning, it has not been so much lately. I can't tell you how effectively one or the other party has ever wanted to have a say in determining the parents of a part of the city. That didn't come up in the committee. But, as I told you, the Commission's decision was not entirely unanimous. The initiators of the draft act, of course, were of the opinion that this should go on. Most of you thought so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U157	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U158	Dear waitress, It is known that the regional minister's team is going around the county, appears in front of the municipalities, introduces an administrative model based on attraction centres and encourages municipalities to move towards it. I hear the reception isn't very warm. Municipalities tend to take a cautious or even repulsive view and talk about the need for fundamental changes. Do you think that the draft we are discussing here today could support the regional minister's undertaking? And how far does the Minister expect to get through this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U159	Thank you. It would be more appropriate to ask the Minister this question. Administrative reform has been attempted in Estonia for more than ten years. When I think of my party fellow ministers, I think Minister Tarmo Loodus started it as early as the early 2000s. Unfortunately, as you said here, Neeme, different parties have different positions. The notion that something needs to be done is also present in the municipalities. Unfortunately, as a team, we cannot agree which way we're going. In ten years, we have come to realize that some changes are needed. Perhaps we should be happy about this too, and maybe the next few years will also bring a longing for common understanding of where we need to move.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U160	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U161	I was inspired to ask my question by your answer to Priit Tobal's question, which actually hung salt on my painful wounds. Indeed, although the sots usually talk a lot about good lawmaking practice and inclusion, the Tallinn Support Group was not contacted at all on this draft. Now here's my question. The second issue that the social partners are happy to promote is the issue of gender equality. Has there also been an analysis of the impact of this draft on gender equality?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U162	This analysis has not been carried out and no one has asked us to examine the issue of gender equality in this area either.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U163	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U164	I've been wondering what could possibly be against this bill. I imagine that since we now have the prevailing 'winner takes all' mentality, for example, in Tallinn, whoever is in power could not put any kind of cup in charge of any part of the city, just have to take into account the local community. Is that the main reason why this draft, which serves the purpose of the rural municipality's accession, remains unread at the Commission's decision? Tallinn versus other Estonia is that the main reason? Do we still think that if someone has won the election, he will appoint the parents of his districts or the elders of the municipalities and do what he wants? Why don't we go some other way now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U165	Unfortunately, I do not see, as I have already said, that this bill somehow reverses the process. Since there is no record of how the administrative bodies are called together, the reality of the situation that you said that the parents of the districts or municipalities are those who are wanted to remain. In my opinion, the draft does not provide a sensible solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U166	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U167	Good waitress! It was about cups. You see, there are people in the administration who didn't go to the council. So they are definitely representatives of the community, but not the best because of this election principle, but the worst from the list. So if they choose their kind of parent, I'm not going to repeat that word now, I doubt this option would be the best one.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U168	That must be one of the few statements that I agree with you on.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U169	Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U170	Mr Co-Rapporteur of the Commission. As the Reform Party and the Centre Party agree on this draft, I am not surprised. That you agree, that's right. What's the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U171	I've been talking about this for a while. The question is, am I against this bill? I would rather say that I do not support this bill because I do not see it as a way of resolving the problems that you have raised with your own questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-14_U172	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
