ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the 15th working week Tuesday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U2	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of the bankruptcy proceedings of Autorollo, the issue of the appointment of persons to boards of state-owned companies has also arisen. For this reason, several members of the Central Party Group have an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Juhan Parts. The Minister of Economic Affairs appoints the members of the Board of Enterprise Development Foundation, and he also controls the state company Eesti Energia. We have raised questions about companies belonging to board members. The manning of the management and control bodies of the Enterprise Development Foundation and the Environmental Investment Centre of the Foundation with suitable persons for the IRL and Reform Party has created an unmistakable system in which the persons eligible for the power coalition receive the euro grants. If the activities of private companies belonging to the board of directors of several state companies are to be deepened, there are several interesting links between the board members and their private businesses, which leave little room for randomity. Hence a number of questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs. Perhaps the most important of these is the fact that the appointment of members to the boards of state companies is still taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U3	Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to discuss with my colleagues the question of the Centre Party Group to the Minister for the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimitus. The inquiry concerns the processing of the draft Package Act. According to the National Audit Office, in 2009 approximately 64 million euros of taxes were not received by the state due to the lack of transparency and incontrol of the system. The practice has shown that both the charging of recovery fees, their collection on an equal basis and the subsequent use of fees are very unclear and uncontrolled. The National Audit Office presented several proposals to amend the Packaging Act in the packaging audit report, which has resulted in a draft. The Ministry of the Environment has accepted most of the proposals in the audit discussions, but the draft has not yet reached the Riigikogu proceedings. Collection and recovery of packaging is an area curated by the Minister of the Environment and where earning income depends on the rules created by the Ministry of Environment and the Committee of the Environment of the Riigikogu. The production and logistics manager of the non-profit association Anti Tammeoksa, who was one of the main actors of waste law as a member of the Riigikogu in the Committee on the Environment, together with Rain Rosimupus, is considered to be the lead figure of the Estonian Packaging Circular. In total, we are going to ask the Minister seven questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries. If they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressees without delay. Now the messages. Wednesday, s. On 22 May, the following members of the government will participate in Question Time: Minister for Defence Urmas Reinsalu, Minister for Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Minister for Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently, 88 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, missing 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U6	We are going to address today's agenda items. The second reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Advertising Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the Chair's member of the Legal Affairs Committee, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U7	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The 347 bill could briefly describe the beauty that has been made for a long time. I do not know how beautiful she has now, but we have discussed this bill after the first reading that took place in this Chamber, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, at a total of five sessions: 25 March, 15 April, 22 April, 6 May and 13 May. Following discussions, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to make two substantive amendments to the draft, one supplementing the Law of Obligations Act and the other supplementing the Law of Advertising. In addition, we have amended the provisions on the entry into force of the draft. The draft law should enter into force on 1 July 2013. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. You will certainly remember from the debate at first reading that the aim of the draft is to implement the principle of responsible lending more effectively than before. When we speak rural languages, we are trying a little bit to curb the provision of fast-track loans and to change these practices so that good practices are better followed. The substantive changes we made between the first reading and the second reading were as follows: We have completed point 4 of the draft, which reverses the burden of proof in the event of disputes arising from consumer credit agreements. If the normal principle of civil law disputes is that both parties are required to prove their claims, the amendment requires the creditor to prove that he assessed the creditor's ability in terms of both good faith and all the criteria that are relevant for lending. In doing so, we do not explicitly oblige the lender to document this process. However, it should be borne in mind that, if there is a dispute, it may have to prove its activities later in the course of the trial and that the lender should be prepared to do so, that he should have evidence of his assessment of the borrower's creditworthiness in order to enable it to be reproduced. This point received as follows: 'The fulfilment of the obligations necessary to comply with the principle of prudent lending shall be demonstrated by the creditor in the event of a dispute. ' We made a second amendment to the advertising law. This reads as follows: "A financial service provider may only display a trade mark which complies with the provisions of subsections 2 to 4 of subsection 2 and 6 of subsection 2 of this § 6. ' You could say that this is all that has happened between the first reading and the second reading of this bill. As has been said, we discussed the draft at five meetings of the Commission. Very many people were involved, including the Estonian Banking Association, the Estonian Association of Liising Associations, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice. We worked hard, and we came up with the result before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U8	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U9	Thank you. Good performer! I'm asking people in this room to clarify this problem. We follow the principle of'responsible lending'. Will this legislative amendment, for example, eliminate the mass telepromotions for high-speed loans that are gonna hurt our eyes? Is there any way that this bill restricts the possibility that people can borrow themselves, which is actually our main problem with this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U10	Thank you. Good question. The aim is certainly to achieve both. We do not want to lose advertising, but to make it responsible and tidy. Above all, we want to avoid the existence and proliferation of adverts that paint people's picture of borrowing as a lasting improvement in quality of life without the need to repay the loan. We want no misleading advertising or exploitation of children, Christmas, or anyone or anything. We want advertising to be appropriate and meager, to promote only a particular product or service, not to embellish it or promote it as a way of life. On the other hand, are we avoiding a bill of loan? Reducing lending is also our request, of course. We concluded in the Commission that we cannot quite prohibit lending, credit granting as an activity. That is not the goal. However, we should not in any way encourage the granting of loans to people who may already be unable to serve the loan on the basis of known facts at the time of taking the loan. We put a clearer and stricter burden on the lender on this control.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U11	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U12	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I read in the paper that Monetti offers a quick loan with a credit cost of 460%. How do you rate that? Could there not have been something inside this bill that would limit the credit cost rates that we now see on the market?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U13	Thank you. That's a very good question again. Since you yourself participated in the Legal Affairs Committee, you know we discussed this issue back and forth. Specifically, about the ad you read out, you could use the word'sickness' in the Riigikogu, which is not often used in the Riigikogu. In fact, the current laws are also being circumvented here, where the credit cost rate is preferably set at three times the average interest rate on consumer credit, calculated by Eesti Pank, which publishes it on its website. At present, it could be about 100%, or 98% to 102%, depending on the month. But the fact that fast-lending companies, however, boldly declare that their credit cost is 460% is incomprehensible to me. That is also one reason that led us to tighten the law. You asked if we didn't have a discussion to put a very strict ceiling on the credit cost rate. This discussion also went back and forth. We looked first and foremost at Finland, where since s. a From 1 July, the maximum annual credit cost is set and it has been decided that it should be 50% plus something moving (it was EURIBOR or something like that). At the moment, it's 51%. Some people have said very optimisticly that fast-track loans will stop in Finland. At the same time, it is a risk that, if such a ceiling is established, any other charges that the legislator has not been able to foresee will arise. We also had an amendment at issue that would have made this three-fold rate, which is currently recommended for good practice, a strictly limited rate. However, during the discussion, the parties discovered that the credit cost rate in Estonia would also be lower, for example, if the insurance was taken from the same leasing company. This may lead to a credit cost rate much higher than 100%, although this is not really relevant. We should then redefine quite a few terms. We also decided in the Commission that this is a clear warning for fast-lending companies that if these companies do not clean up and clean up, we will come back to this issue. We will see what happens in Finland after 1 July. We will give the new system about six months to operate there and see what the practical result is. If there is a very positive result and the situation still needs to be cleaned up, then why not, we will work on this Finnish example.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U14	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U15	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Does the lender in the future have an obligation to control the borrower's potential incompetence in addition to other obligations? It's a perfectly vital situation. How does this work with the protection of sensitive personal data?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U16	Thank you. Good question. This was not directly discussed by the Commission. I can't imagine how to evaluate it in practice. But if the lender is doing his job thoroughly, hopefully he will discover that a person who does not have the ability to earn credit will not understand his actions at all and will not understand their consequences. It could be a warning sign.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U17	Thank you. Please, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U18	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The Commission was talking about charging credit costs. What is your position, is this ceiling needed and how high could it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U19	I myself raised this issue, and I was completely convinced that it could be tried. I know that during the previous Riigikogu there was also talk about this. The extent to which the legislator should intervene in economic activity is in itself a sensitive issue. But I'd be willing to try it and put it on the ceiling if I were sure there wouldn't be any extra charges that would cancel out the legislator's good cause anyway. That is why we decided to take some time off on this issue and see what will happen in Finland. There, the real annual interest rate on fast-track loans has been above 900% in the middle. Now they put the ceiling on 50%. Let's see if it works.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U20	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U21	Thank you. To continue with this subject, I will ask you about the same rate of credit cost. If the rate of cost is really unreasonably high, would it not be possible to provide any support to the borrower by making the lender think a little more and take responsibility? The recommended rate of good practice is now three times the rate, but if it is already 10 or 100 times the rate, it still differs so much from that recommended rate. Can we not give some kind of setback to a lender who actually just wants to take usury?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U22	Thank you. Good question. In fact, people already have one chance. If they feel that they have been roped for usury and the credit cost rate is significantly higher than this recommended, good practice-based rate, they can go to court. These things have been in court and there have also been positive solutions for the borrower. In principle, the problem is often that the borrower is not always a very equal partner to the lender in this situation. We are therefore also prepared to regulate somewhat more strictly to protect borrowers. But we are not ready in advance to condemn all people and shut down the entire credit granting sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U23	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. It is understood that the ceiling was waived. Before six months, let's see how it's going to happen in Finland. But why did the Commission still not accept our proposal to set a lower limit? It's like a balance between a lender and a borrower, and it's like a limit of living. You also know that when larger banks lend, they count on it. If they make a repayment schedule, they'll take that into account. Why, then, do fast-lending companies ignore this good practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U25	Thank you. This amendment was a long discussion. We looked at it one way and the other way and found it pointless to put it in this bill. All the more so since a person is already in difficulty, the limit of living is the limit that the collecting bodies must not exceed. Man is so, or so, protected by the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U26	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U27	Thank you. Dear waitress, You previously explained the complexity of setting the credit cost rate by, for example, including insurance in the case of leasing. But why don't you just take that insurance out of that count? Then there would be a clear difference between the premiums. Anyone would realize that if the insurance premium was too high, they wouldn't take insurance from that company, they'd take insurance from somewhere else. Then there would be a reference moment and it would be possible to clearly fix the credit cost rate without the insurance being able to interfere with this picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U28	Thank you. Good question. We discussed that, too. This issue of insurance was just one example. For example, in Finland, these companies have a large source of income (not yet used in Estonia, as far as I know) that a person has to send them some SMS messages that he or she wants a loan and that he or she confirms something. Every text like that costs a lot. This is also part of the credit cost that Finns have tried to exclude now, just as you suggest we exclude insurance. Another risk there is that there are European Union directives to take account of the cost of credit, and I am not entirely sure that we will not go against them if we start completely establishing our own standard. But, as I said, this subject has not been finally closed. We want to come back to this once we have seen whether the system in Finland is working or whether it is going to be bypassed. One pretty bad option, which is still being used today, is that the loan will be formalised as a private loan, and in that case it will go completely out of the scope of this regulation. So the world is a wonderful place. There are many holes that can be used to circumvent laws. But we will definitely come back to this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U29	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U30	Thank you. Well, in life, smart learns from the mistakes of others, stupid self. But I'll come back to Finland for a second. The credit market does not very much recognise the sea border between our countries, and this activity is likely to take place in a very similar environment in both countries. Is it more an emotional decision that we wait six months to see how Finland is doing, or is there some very rational argument why we cannot do the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U31	I can't tell if it's an emotional or rational decision. Rather, it is a rational decision. This was due, in particular, to the fact that, ultimately, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, a situation arose where all the parties involved, including those who, at first, very loudly called for a strict ceiling on the credit cost rate, began to argue against it. At some point, I had the feeling that if anyone no longer likes one amendment, it would be either a very good or a completely wrong amendment. That's why I wanted to take some time off and see what happens in Finland. It's not that long, six months. Looking at how this market has worked so far and at how long this area has been dealt with, six months is not that long. You could really measure it a few times and then cut it. There is no need to start cutting now, so that then in the autumn, it is stated that it went completely wrong. We are not quite sure that the Finnish regulation, which will apply from 1 July, will also work.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U32	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I didn't fully understand your answer to Eldar Efendiev's question. In fact, you said that within the limits of living, human money is protected by law. It's true. For example, a bailiff cannot claim that money. But the content of the proposal was that, in addition to this amount, there would still be what had to be returned to the bank. You guys were talking about each other. Why was this proposal not supported? The argument that this money is protected anyway does not apply in this case, because we are talking not only about the income limit but also about the repayment of the loan?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U34	Thank you. Good question. But why isn't this argument valid? If the debt is to be recovered, the person will be required to keep the amount needed for his or her livelihood. Whatever it takes, including the money needed to serve this debt, will be taken away, but if it doesn't enough, then no more will be taken. That was one argument. The problem was, however, that bringing this provision into the draft means, firstly, that we are regulating it twice and, secondly, that we should start looking at how it affects other provisions. This is not entirely in line with the logic of the General Law of Obligations Act. That's why the Justice Department found it shouldn't be brought in.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U35	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U36	Thank you. Good waitress! You said the world was written. I totally agree with you. Tolerance to usury varies greatly from country to country. In some countries, these laws are tougher, for example in the Netherlands. But I want to know why you took Finland as a reference. There are other countries on which to measure. Was Finland better off with the Commission for some reason? Have you made a comparison with other countries? The biggest problem I see here is that people who are in debt because of these companies will later become a burden on the state and the state will have to find more social assistance to help them. At the moment, it would still be possible to find a sensible solution based on the experience of other countries, not just Finland.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U37	Thank you. Good question. In fact, it was not just Finland that caught our eye. Finland is in my eyes and ears, both for me and for you, rather now than performing on this remote control. We also looked at other countries, such as Latvia. In Latvia, it is regulated in such a way that fast-borrowing companies are obliged to register and obtain a license. They have to pay a pretty high fee for this licence, which is also a restriction. If they seriously violate the lending rules, they may lose their license. In Latvia, however, it has also been observed that if there is an emergency, the loan will be made through a private individual. We also looked at Sweden. In Sweden, another interesting thing that we also considered stood out. The question was whether to bring fast-borrowing companies under the control of the Financial Supervision Authority. Sweden is currently in the middle of this process. In Estonia, it is not the Financial Supervision Authority, but the Consumer Protection Board that supervises fast-lending companies. We discussed this, and we even had a special meeting with representatives of the Ministry of Finance, whose administration the Financial Inspectorate belongs to. There was also the objection that the Financial Supervision Authority is currently transposing the European directive on pan-European banking supervision, which is why they are undergoing very big changes and very much work. If this area is brought under the supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority, it is a very substantial job, but of course it is one option. In the Commission it remained that, if we finally find that all these sanctions do not work in the form of fines, warnings and injunctions, it is likely that the most effective leverage is the loss of the company's licence. Perhaps in the future, this is the way out that companies involved in such activities should be licensed. We looked at other countries, too. Like I said, a long-made beauty.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U38	Thank you. Please, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U39	Good waitress! Looks like the beauty of a long time isn't so pretty. If we continue to work, perhaps there will be some beauty in the subject of supervision that you have spoken about. But my question is about setting a limit on credit costs. You have said here several times that we did not make it compulsory yet, because we want to see what will happen in Finland first. Otherwise something's gonna go wrong. Please describe what could get worse for people if, for example, we set this credit cost limit today. What's the bad thing that could happen? I think that the situation is bad enough and that quite radical steps should be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U40	Thank you, good questioner! I don't know how to paint a huge ghost for you. I mentioned a few things. One option that has already been used and which has also been done in Latvia is that these loans will be taken through private individuals. In fact, there's a quick-borrowing company back there with its own money, but he formalises these loans as a private loan, and in that case, this deal is out of the law's control. Another bad option is to start inventing all kinds of contract fees, contract conversion fees, contract award fees, termination fees, whatever things. I also mentioned the example of Finland, where it is mandatory to send some SMS when concluding an agreement, which is not cheap at all. That kind of thing. Just so that we did not need to come back here in six months and say that we did something wrong, but that we could say that we are going to take the next step, because the current steps do not regulate or cool the market enough, we decided to look at what is happening in Finland. Look also at how long we dealt with this draft in committee: a total of five or six meetings. Look at the number of parties involved. None of us began to deal with this bill with the assumption that we are doing as little as possible now and are somehow trying to keep these good lenders under our control. That wasn't the attitude. However, we cannot go too far by trying to regulate and thereby actually creating an unregulated environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U41	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U42	Thank you. Good performer! Indeed, we discussed this issue in a number of Commission meetings and many interested parties were invited to attend. But in my opinion, the result now is that we didn't change anything at all. These were the cosmetic changes we made. Control of advertising is now purely self-deception, even though we imagine that things will get better. You said that the banks were kind of counting on the limit of coping so that people weren't quite left empty. In fact, banks do not have to take this into account; only the court can draw any conclusions later there. We proposed an amendment to this, which was, of course, voted down. But I specifically ask how the current amendment will still force people to assess their creditworthiness better.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U43	Firstly, the draft explicitly states that the lender must provide himself with all the necessary information. But the most important part is that the obligation to prove what has been done before lending is clearly placed on the lender. This may seem like a little change to you, Marika, but as a lawyer, I think it's a pretty big change. We're actually going away from this general principle, which I mentioned earlier, that the arguing parties have to prove their arguments. At present, we are placing the burden of proof entirely on the lender, which in the long term means in fact that the lender must be much more careful when granting the loan and ready to prove in a documented manner that he has researched all the data necessary to assess creditworthiness. I think this is an important change. I think you also know in your heart that this is important, especially when you look at how the Estonian Banking Association and the Estonian Association of Liising Associations felt about it. They were not very happy about this, for they saw their workload increasing enormously.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U44	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U45	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! As to why not adopt our proposal, your argument was that this proposal does not correspond to the logic of the law. But my colleague gave an example of where this logic has led. Indeed, the credit cost rate may be above 4,000 percent and this is normal. The Commission's debate also included a figure of 27,000, which is normal, no problem. It works because the Consumer Protection Board cannot control it. You know that in Austria, the kind of thing we have proposed is introduced, because there must still be protection for the consumer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U46	Thank you. There's no way I can share your very pessimistic opinion that it's okay, we know it, and we'll accept it. You know about the times that you've been involved in the Commission's work, it's very well that we don't think it's okay to have a credit cost rate like this, plus a public exposure. No one in the Commission found it. Taking into account the limits of your livelihood, I will say it once again, is more characteristic of the enforcement procedure than of the Law of Obligations Act, it goes against the logic that exists in this law. But I will say once again that this will be taken into account in enforcement proceedings. Basically, you still get to the point that a person can't take on a larger loan than the limit of living allows.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U47	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U48	Thank you. I'm sure you analyzed who the people who are directly affected by this bill are working on this bill. Can you tell me how many of these people are and what is the typical SMS consumer? If this bill becomes a law, how many people, and in what form could it help?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U49	Thank you. I'm afraid I don't remember those numbers by heart. At first reading, I called them here, and I had them completely. I don't remember that number of borrowers. I can say one of the arguments that seemed to me and the Committee on Legal Affairs when we were dealing with this issue is compelling. According to the banks, in all cases where people have been deprived of their homes and have not been able to serve a home loan, the drop that has caused the cup to flow over has been that person has taken a fast loan in addition to a home loan. This is certainly a social problem that could not exist. If a person takes a home loan from a bank, the bank has dealt with this credit relationship more responsibly so far. The fast-borrowing companies have, unfortunately, sinned here. In many ways, they have built up their business model to have such a high cost of credit that even if a very large proportion of borrowers are unable to repay the loan, the remaining borrowers will also be able to cover these costs with a margin and live on a large amount. There is no way of saying this, as Mr Eldar said, that we think it is okay. We don't think it's okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U50	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, We got to the right place. In fact, this is a social problem. Again, I turn to the reference work and read here: "The use of profit is to demand unreasonable or high interest rates for the use of money when granting a loan. Overuse is punishable as a misdemeanour in a number of countries; in Germany, usury is punishable by criminal fines or deprivation of liberty. ' We're talking about the credit cost rate. As Mr Gräzin said, we are dealing directly with usury. We have an opportunity to resent or condemn us for usury as such. Why don't we use it now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U52	Thank you. Good question in itself. I think you're right. In a very long time, it has been known that in many countries usury has not been a favoured activity. There is currently no such concept as usury in the Estonian legal space. If we were to start creating it now, I think we should think a little bit more about it, not enough of these five Commission meetings. But this subject ran through the meetings of the Commission several times. We cannot do this simply on the basis that Igor says we are putting the concept of usury in the law, and that is what is done. I don't know if everyone remembers this, but the penalty for a loan shark may be death, not only a financial penalty. In Astrid Lindgren's book on Master Detective Kalle Blomkvist, the story was that a usurper with green gabardine pants was killed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U53	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U54	Thank you. When you answered Mr Saare's question, you said that too high a credit cost is one of the main problems, but we do not want to regulate this by law. We recognise this serious problem, but with the solution we tend to stay in the middle of it. If this law amending the law is passed, how much could we reduce in terms of granting fast-track loans and taking them as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U55	Thank you. I cannot appreciate the final part of the question of how much it could decrease or increase. If I knew that, I would not have to wait for things to develop in Finland or for them to develop in us, but for me to do something and take account of certain results. This must be demonstrated by the future and practice. But to argue that we know that excessive credit costs are a problem and do nothing is not quite right. It is regulated by an indicative credit cost rate above which you can apply to the courts and seek protection from the courts. Maybe someday we'll get to the point where we'll put some kind of automatic border, the same way the Finns have done, who say that in that case, the credit agreement will be invalid. But we're not ready to do that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U56	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U57	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, There have been a lot of questions and answers here that may give the listener the impression that there are only one side of the problem, who gives the loan, in terms of the conditions under which he gives the loan, how he gives and what he gives, i.e. what kind of fees and interest he charges in return for it. I therefore have the question of how much these changes will make the life of the borrower easier. Will he have more room for consideration when deciding whether to borrow, whether he will receive more information and can actually make a well-considered decision whether to borrow or not? How much will this make the borrower's situation easier?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U58	Thank you. Good question. The aim here was in no way to paint a picture of bad lenders and good borrowers. That wasn't the goal. There has certainly been a great deal of recklessness among borrowers and overestimation of their abilities. You drew attention to the very right thing. One of the objectives of this bill is that the borrower should be fully informed of what happens when he takes out the loan and what that means in the context of his general obligations that he had previously. I cannot appreciate how much this makes something easier or harder in terms of percentage or figures, but it should certainly help to clean up this market, so that we still have a situation where responsible lenders and borrowers who value their abilities adequately.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U59	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In many ways people get into a loan trap by accident, they don't know what they need the money for, if they're able to pay back the money, etc. People lack financial awareness and financial education. There has been a great deal of talk about this in Estonia. Do you know how much financial education of this kind is given in upper secondary school economics studies? The more educated the people, the more educated our next generation will be on this subject, the less those who fall into this trap.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U61	Thank you. I very much agree with your question and the conclusion that this is, in many ways, a question of education and education. I don't know how much time in the upper secondary school program is currently devoted to basic or in-depth financial knowledge. I can say so much that the Financial Supervision Authority, as one of its areas of activity, has set itself the goal of educating people in financial services. They have their own website www.minuha.ee, where you can get quite a lot of good material. The Financial Inspectorate has contributed quite a lot to this, but they cannot change the world on their own. I can give you a grotesque example. In Latvia, people were given the opportunity to write a petition with their heads sober that they could not be granted a quick loan for a period of three years. That's a signature they can't take back. It's also an option, but I think it sounds too extreme.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U62	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, A very brief question about advertising. When this law enters into force, rapid credit offices can no longer sell dreams; they can't just tell people that they exist. Who makes sure that the advertising of instant credit offices doesn't become an emotional leverage?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U64	Thank you. The Consumer Protection Board supervises the activities of instant credit offices. If the banks are controlled by the Financial Supervision Authority, the Financial Supervision Authority will do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U65	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Valdo Randpere. We're opening negotiations, and I'm asking for Eldar Efendiev! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U66	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Centre Party Group has tabled two substantive amendments to the draft under discussion, as we found that the amendments to the law drafted by the Ministry of Justice do not solve the growing problem of people borrowing beyond their abilities. From a macro-economic point of view, lending to society is very important, thus boosting the economy as a whole. For example, when a person buys a hire car, people working in a car factory and a leasing company and others get a job. The European Council has also recommended to Member States that, in 2013, one of the five priorities should focus on restoring normal lending to the economy. However, due to too light-handed lending, we are faced with the concerns of Estonian society. These are people who have borrowed themselves or whose debt burden is several times greater than their income. The draft prepared by the Ministry of Justice sets out the circumstances to be taken into account by the creditor when assessing the credit facilities of the consumer. These are the financial situation and the regularity of income. However, no attention has been paid to what the estimated result of creditworthiness should be, which must be kept in the hands of the person, in order for the lender to act as a responsible borrower. The first amendment by the Centre Party Group concerns the creditor's obligation. It's not in the law right now. When assessing creditworthiness, it must be ensured that when concluding a contract, the consumer is in a position to be able to fulfil his obligations under a consumer credit agreement in full without compromising his or her livelihood. The same principle is found in the Austrian legal system. This, in our opinion, should also be included in the principles of responsible lending. The income limit is defined as the amount that is minimally necessary to survive for one month. The income limit depends on the number of people in the family and is calculated on the basis of the Social Welfare Act. The Commission was left with the view that the limit of living, which is currently EUR 76.7, is too low. We agree. However, it must be borne in mind that this border is established by regulation of the Minister for Social Affairs. If it is too low, the question arises as to why it has not been transformed into reality. In the current law, lenders are not obliged to take account of the limits of living, but the court will take this into account when the dispute has reached that point. However, we recall that, in most cases, the debtor is presented with a collection and, without judicial protection, the debt is demanded with any secondary claims, without anyone assessing whether the lender has complied with his obligations under the law. We are of the opinion that the more we redefine the law, the more both lenders and borrowers understand the rights and obligations of everyone. The second amendment by the Centre Party Group includes a ban on advertising loans with exceptions. We followed both the ban on advertising casinos and the various consumer credit directives in the European Union. The content of the amendment is to ban advertising on consumer credit services, the location of the consumer credit provider and the consumer credit provider, unless this is done either at the location of the consumer credit provider, at the location of the consumer credit intermediary, on the website of the consumer credit provider or on the website of the consumer credit intermediary. The aim of advertising as a form of communication is to convince potential buyers to prefer the products, services or behaviour to be advertised. The current advertising law entered into force in 2008 and since 2008 there has also been a restriction on advertising for financial services with a view to limiting the consumption of these services. The explanatory memorandum to the draft under discussion states that according to the Tallinn Social Work Centre, an average of 70 people who have taken fast loans will turn to their institution for debt counselling every month. It can therefore be argued that within four years the restriction on advertising for financial services has not sufficiently served its purpose and that other options need to be considered. The faction of the Centre Party has found that mass telepromotion for high-interest loans must be abolished, which encourages people to take on high-interest loans. Since irresponsible borrowers pose a threat not only to themselves but also to their family members and other relatives, more stringent measures must be considered. For example, it is unwise for 18 - year - olds to get into debt and conscientious parents to pay off their loans. Also, it is not acceptable to advertise the mass broadcast on television during Christmas: "Make a gift for your family and start paying after three months! " Later, of course, the family will receive this gift! The amendment proposed by the Centre Party prohibits outdoor and television advertising for financial services, but allows the display of a consumer credit provider's brand that does not express consumer credit, the location of the consumer credit provider or the possibility of social success in the picture. I would ask you to support our amendments. With them, we protect the Estonian people who are in a difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U67	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a speech chair at Neeme the Great! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U68	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that the 347 bill is a good bill of law in its principles and nature, and it can be said that it is absolutely necessary. The rapid loan, taking it and giving it, and advertising such a service, have become a general public problem in Estonia and the topic is acutely under the attention of society. Poverty and loan slavery go hand in hand. Punishments like "It's a loan time" and "The Little Beep and the Money Is Coming" have become infamous. People who are struggling with economic difficulties step in and out of traps that are kindly set up for them. The amendments to the draft law impose on the creditor the burden of proof that the principles of responsible lending have been respected. Thus we read in the text of the draft: 'The fulfilment of the obligations necessary to comply with the principle of prudent lending shall be demonstrated by the creditor in the event of a dispute. ' This is certainly an important change. It is also essential to amend the advertising law. Slogans such as 'Bite-beep and money comes', 'Not an hour without money', 'E-loan with easy credit' and 'A few clicks and money is in hand' must disappear from our information field. Unfortunately, there is also a major concern about this good bill. This bill is going to stop at an important spot, it's going to be halfway there. In the case of fast-track loans, creditworthiness assessment and misleading advertising are not the only concerns. One of the main problems is the predatory charges applied to the provision of the service, namely the credit cost rate. An extremely high fee for issuing a loan will allow companies to calmly write bad loans in the chimneys and make a profit on conscientious citizens who are trapped in a loan trap. We are not talking about 10% or 30%, and several hundred per cent of the initial loan amount is quite common as the total cost of borrowing. The highest credit cost that has been found to be inappropriate in advertising has been 460%. As Mr Gräzin rightly said in the Commission, this is a classic usury in the worst sense of the word. This is a social phenomenon. We would now have the opportunity to put a stop to the proliferation of usury in Estonia if we wanted to. Limiting the cost of credit was under discussion in the Committee on Legal Affairs. There was a limit to the predatory percentages as an amendment by the Commission itself. The Ministry of Justice informed the Commission that the Commission could propose such an amendment and also developed the text of the amendment. The proposal was on the Commission's desk for several months, until the end of the process, but then the Commission itself voted down the proposal and it did not. This was not a confrontation between the opposition and the coalition. Representatives of the coalition also spoke about setting a limit on the credit cost rate. This situation, which has been created by the rampant high-speed credit market for people in Estonia, is understood in the same way by everyone. However, the Social Democrats do not understand why a good and urgent initiative had to be abandoned. We spent hours arguing about who and how to prove that the circumstances of the loan had been explained to the client. We learned this, it went well, but then we gave up the opportunity to limit usury in Estonia. By the way, Finns are doing it right now, protecting their people. However, we have chosen a partial solution, and we have excluded the most important part of the possible measures. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not too late! We have the opportunity to interrupt the second reading of the bill, write down the credit cost limit in the bill and come back to the hall again. We already have the text of the amendment; the Ministry of Justice has developed it. So, ladies and gentlemen, the Social Democrats are proposing to interrupt the second reading of the draft 347. We would still be able to make this necessary change before the summer, and the pace of processing the entire bill would not be hindered. We very much hope that you will support the Socialist proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U69	Thank you. In the materials at the back of the hall, the second and fourth amendments are written as amendments by the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U70	Dear Riigikogu, we will continue to examine the amendments. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the proposal of the commission is that it should be disregarded. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U71	Thank you. Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. We will now examine the amendments. Amendment 1 Amendment 2: Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U72	Thank you. I would like to vote on the second amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U73	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put the second amendment to the vote. I interrupt the vote. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U74	I would like to ask for the third amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U75	The confusion was with the pages. The amendments were included on page 1 in the list of amendments. The confusion arose because the text of the explanatory memorandum was reviewed. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 3 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that this proposal should be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. 35 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 4 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Amendment 5 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Amendment 6 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs. We have examined all the amendments. The Bureau has received a proposal from the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the second reading of draft 347. We must vote on this proposal. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group 347 to interrupt the second reading. Please take a stand and vote. 35 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 47 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U76	Let us put the third amendment to the vote. Can I go to the vote? Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U77	Thank you. You took a two-minute break before the vote, but you have not informed the Chamber how the problem of this intermission was solved. There was a mess. What solution did it find?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U78	I'll take a two-minute break from the manager, and we'll specify that. Please bring your materials here!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U79	Let's go to the next item. The second reading of the draft law amending § 131 of the Waste Act initiated by the Environmental Commission begins. I would like a presentation by Tõnis Kõiv, Member of the Environment Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending § 131 of the Waste Act is known to have been submitted by the Committee on the Environment. The first reading of the draft was in this Chamber on 24 April 2013 and the deadline for tabling amendments was set in s. 9 May at 5.15 p.m. Although apparently there are many problems in the waste sector that need to be resolved or at least a debate, no amendments to the draft were received, and no proposals for proposals were received. At its meeting on 14 May, the Environment Committee reviewed the draft law amending § 131 of the Waste Act. One linguistic amendment has been made to the draft. While the first-reading text stated that the landfill, which will be closed for disposal by 16 July 2009, would have to be organised in accordance with the requirements by 31 December 2015, the language editor's recommendation has now been replaced by the word 'properly'. By its protocol of 16 May 2013, the Government of the Republic has decided to support draft 421. On this basis, the Committee on the Environment took the following decisions: First, it was decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the second reading of draft 421 be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 22 May 2013. This date has been changed, and the new date is May 21. Secondly, it was decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the second reading of Bill 421 be stopped. Thirdly, it was decided that when the second reading was completed, the Riigikogu Board would be invited to place the third reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 5 June 2013. Fourthly, it was decided to then propose to the Riigikogu plenary to put draft 421 to the final vote and adopt it as a law. All these decisions were taken by the Committee on the Environment in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U81	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Tõnis Kõiv! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments to the draft have been received. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U82	We are going to the third item on today's agenda. The first reading of the draft law amending the Land Tax Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group begins. I would like to present a speech chair to Kalev Kotkas, a member of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Two years ago, the Riigikogu amended the Land Tax Act and released the land tax on the land under home. The lower rate of tax due on land tax granted by the State is compensated by an increase in the share of income tax allocated to municipalities. The country's behaviour is correct. Many years earlier, on the basis of § 4 of the Land Tax Act, the State also exempted certain categories of land under nature conservation, land under embassies, cemeteries and churches, etc. These exemptions have not yet been compensated for by the municipalities. According to the Land Administration, this affects about 13800 cadastral units across Estonia and the annual land tax exemption for these cadastral units is 1.75 million euros. The calculation is made at a maximum rate of 2,5%, i.e. the resulting amount is theoretically the maximum cost for the state budget in case of compensation. The proposal to compensate the municipalities for the reduced tax exemption provided for in § 4 of the Land Tax Act was submitted by the Social Democrats a year ago. Unfortunately, this bill was rejected by the coalition. Today's draft 406 focuses only on compensating municipalities for the exemption of land from the land tax on the conservation reserves and the land and permanent habitats of the target conservation zone of protected areas provided for in § 4 (1) (11) of the Land Tax Act. It is quite appropriate to correct the small inaccuracies that have slipped into the draft. In the first line of the paragraph to be added, it is correct to read: '§ 4 (1) (11) '. According to the Ministry of Finance, in 2011 the total amount of the exemption for nature reserves was EUR 1.16 million. Compared to 2005, this figure has almost tripled. Of course, the land tax exemption for land under nature conservation affects municipalities in different ways. Eight municipalities are not affected at all. This has little impact on 50 municipalities, assuming that if the loss of income is less than a thousand euros, we call it a small impact. The rest have a loss of tax revenue of between EUR 1000 and EUR 351000 per year. Many are compensated for income deficit through the Support Fund, but 35 municipalities have zero allocation of the Support Fund. Some more marked examples of practical life in 2013. The amount of land lost in Vihula's parish this year is EUR 164876, the grant fund allocation is 0. The land cost for Kuusalu parish is EUR 151356, part of the grant fund is 0. The land tax forgone in the parish of Kõrissaare is EUR 36263, the share of the grant fund is 0. The income tax forgone by the municipality of Noarootsi is EUR 26258, the fund's allocation is 0. The land tax forgone by Käina is EUR 25119, the share of the Fund is 0. For years, national self-government associations have requested that the State compensates for the exemptions from the state budget under § 4 (1) (11) and (2) of the Land Tax Act. This was also the case in the negotiations on this year's budget, and similar proposals have been made by the municipal associations in the proposals for the negotiations on the 2014 budget. This issue has been discussed several times in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. The previous composition of the Riigikogu did so on the initiative of the Greens of Estonia. Finally. The Social Democrats hope that the Riigikogu shares our understanding that the bill would improve the current unfair situation where the state grants the landowner an exemption, but the reduction in income resulting from the exemption is left to the local government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U84	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Kalev Eagle! I would like to ask Mr Remo Holsmer, Member of the Monetary Commission, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U85	President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 14 May. The bill introduced Kalev Eagle who just left this remote control. The purpose of the draft is to compensate the municipalities for land tax on land under nature conservation when the state takes these land under protection. Let me briefly describe the debate in the Commission and also the government's opinion on the draft. I would first point out that the land referred to in point 4 (1) (11) of the Land Tax Act has not been subject to tax since 1993. The government also relied on the fact that, in fact, the municipalities did not have a reasonable expectation of compensation when assessing this draft. We also talked in the Commission about 'partly compensated countries'. Paragraph 2 of the Land Tax Act describes the countries whose tax relief is compensated for in half. This draft did not concern this, but this was the subject of the Commission's discussion. At the meeting of the Commission, the representative of the Ministry of Finance Sulev Liivik was also present. According to him, the natural resources are in place and should not be added. This problem, which Mr Eagle referred to when talking about compensation, has been more in the past. In the future, the number of land protected by nature should not increase. This was a brief summary of the Commission's debate. I'm coming to the government's opinion now. As I said at the beginning, the government indicated that the land mentioned in this section is not a tax object. Mr Eagle also pointed out in his speech that the reference to the bill was somewhat inaccurate. This has also been referred to by the government, but it is rather a technical problem. It is not clear from the explanatory memorandum why the State could foresee such compensation. The state already has an obligation to provide the municipalities with an adequate income base. Similarly, the draft does not explain how and according to what formula this money could be compensated for by local governments. There is a lack of calculation and analysis of the so-called budgetary impact of EUR 1.75 million, which the initiator has pointed out in the explanatory memorandum. These were, in short, the reasons why the government did not support this draft. Similarly, according to the Government, there were no sources of compensation in the explanatory memorandum. Against this background, the Commission decided to send the draft to today's sitting and reject it at first reading. There were 6 Commission members in favour of this proposal, 4 against and no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U86	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U87	Thank you. Let's just forget about finance for a second and look at it the other way around. Does this time, which we have, not lead to the situation that, although it would be reasonable in the general interest of all of us to take some land into conservation, the local authorities will fight to prevent it from going into nature for God's sake, for very practical reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U88	I think that taking up nature conservation should not be a punishment for the local government in any way, rather it should be an opportunity to attract more visitors, tourists, so that it can be proud that this local government has such natural value. I think it should be more like this in principle. I also made it clear between the meeting of the Commission and today's meeting at the Ministry of the Environment that the government is planning to contribute EUR 100 million to nature conservation through the Ministry of the Environment over the next seven years, precisely in order to value already protected areas. The Ministry's position was also that there would be no new protected lands. Now the focus is on making land already protected more attractive, more people going there, the local government making money and being proud that it is their country that has such natural value.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U89	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Kalev Kotkas gave a nice presentation to the local authorities, who will not receive any money and who will not receive anything from the Equalisation Fund. You reported the government's positions. I dare say that these were very sought-after reasons, such as the talk of legitimate expectations or the fact that the problem existed in the past, but today and tomorrow it is not. In fact, the question is that this EUR 1.75 million, which is what we are talking about, would mean justice for local authorities and perhaps the redemption of past sins. Did the Commission mention this in order to solve this problem in any way? You want to reject the bill today, but how do you solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U91	Thank you. As far as compensation is concerned, this is the case for the countries with the 50% land tax exemption that I referred to at the beginning. Their compensation is covered by Section 4 (2) of the Land Tax Act. Compensation shall be made through the Equalisation Fund to those municipalities which receive funds from the Equalisation Fund. Those who don't get money out of it will not be compensated. It's true. You asked what the solution would be. As I said at the beginning, the Commission decided not to support this draft. The Ministry of Finance described the government's position that this issue could be resolved in its entirety in the context of all subsidies. Reference was also made to various grants from the PRIA. Whether any specific draft is coming to the Riigikogu, the committee was not discussed and the representative of the government did not say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U92	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U93	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Indeed, the Government's position states that the tax-free land provided for in Paragraph 4 (1) (11) of the Land Tax Act is not subject to tax and has not been subject to land tax since 1993 when the Land Tax Act entered into force. Do you really share the understanding that after 1993, there has been no increase in natural resources in Estonia that has benefited from tax exemptions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U94	Thank you. Of course, after 1993 there have been more lands that have been taken into nature conservation. I certainly have not contested that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-21_U95	Any more questions for the waitress? No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Remo Holsmer! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The Commission's proposal was that draft 406 should be rejected at first reading. We must vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 406 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 45 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 25 against, no abstentions. The draft has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted. I wish everyone a beautiful day! See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 11.33 a.m.
