ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start the briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 40 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, 61 missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Culture Rein Lang and Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U2	Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Simson, a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U3	Thank you. Prime Minister! There are a number of state companies in Estonia that perform the public tasks assigned to them or quietly earn dividend income. But Eesti Energia is not included in the list of such state companies. This is a company that should be an example in terms of open and polite communication style for everyone, but the management of Eesti Energia has already reached the point that, through the communication team, three members of the Riigikogu have been called either a liar or a false argument during the last year. This is certainly not appropriate for a state company and its style of communication. How do you feel about the statements and strategy of Eesti Energia that the best defence is to attack anyone whose opinion does not match the business strategy of the management of Eesti Energia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U4	Thank you. I agree with you on the style of communication. This type of communication, where critics are attacked, is certainly not appropriate for any of the leaders, nor is it appropriate for the directors of a state-owned company. But I'm worried about leaking secrets. Photographs of technological nodes may also constitute a business secret in the case of a business enterprise. Leakage must be deplorable. In this respect, the criticisms of the company's directors are fully justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! I understand that the complaint about the leakage of business information is intended for members of the Estonian Energy Council, to whom the data was made available, which was subsequently published in the newspaper. However, as a member of the Riigikogu, I consider it normal that if a member of the Riigikogu or a committee of the Riigikogu, in this case the Committee on Economic Affairs, asks the leaders of Eesti Energia for information, it will be given. How do you feel about the fact that when the Committee on Economic Affairs met with the leaders of Eesti Energia on 29 January, the Commission was allowed to provide additional information on issues that were not answered at the committee meeting, but took more than two months before any response was made to this request? Do you think that this is normal, and should the Committee on Economic Affairs take the view that its members should be kept out of the information?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U7	Thank you. Not respecting promises is certainly neither normal nor acceptable. It is not even a question of whether it is a member of the Riigikogu who has much more rights than ordinary citizens to receive information from a state-owned company, but it is universally understandable that when promises are made, they must be respected. If, within two months, the information which was permitted to be provided immediately cannot be provided or bothered to be provided, it is certainly not acceptable. Once again, if the questioner is a member of the Riigikogu, this request will have a much greater weight than the inquiry of the ordinary citizen. The promise should have been fulfilled immediately.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! I do not really wish to make you the target of the communication team of Eesti Energia, but I ask your opinion. How do you feel about Eesti Energia financing its risk investments by holding back investments related to core liabilities, such as investments in distribution networks? Do you see a problem here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U10	Thank you. This argument was speculative. I cannot in any way confirm the claim that risk investments are financed by means of instruments that could, for example, make investments in distribution networks. As far as I know, the investments that you probably call risk investments, i.e. external projects, have been financed by income from selling oil or electricity outside Estonia. In the case of the Jordan project, you can now even ask who is funded. As far as I am aware, Eesti Energia's share of its stake in the Jordan Joint Undertaking has been divested and the proceeds of the disposal are significantly above the investments made in the project. I may be a little wrong with the amounts, the communication team of Eesti Energia will probably specify then, but in my opinion the amount of investments made in Jordan was seven million euros and the sale of the stake was 16 million euros. So, the Jordan project could be a plus at this point, at least on the basis of the data I know. In this case, it cannot be said that it is financed, for example, by distribution networks.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U11	Now you can ask the questions registered on the spot. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U12	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister! You said last or last time in Question Time that Eesti Energia will certainly not go to the stock market during your reign. Last week, however, your party partner, the chairman of the Economic Affairs Committee, thought that Eesti Energia could be cut up, it could be discussed. What do you think of this as head of government or party? Has it been discussed in the government or in the political party that this issue is appropriate at the moment? I mean chopping up Eesti Energia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U13	Thank you. Discussions are certainly appropriate. But my opinion probably matches your opinion that now is not the best time to go to the stock market. Take, for example, the oil industry and the uncertainty involved. The oil industry using Enefit 140 technology reached full capacity in a few decades, more like thirty years. The technology has been constantly improved and it can only now be said that the plant is operating at maximum capacity. The first plant using Enefit 280 technology has not now started to produce. Some oil has been recovered, but there are certain technological nodes that need to be redesigned, where new equipment needs to be acquired. These are not very important and complex nodes, we are talking about snail transporters, for example, where temperature differences are very high and therefore tensions arise. The pressure was probably not exactly foreseeable in the design. These technological problems are certainly manageable and once, of course, this plant will produce. Going to the stock market when it is not known how much profit or loss the plant produces is obviously not reasonable. The resulting price would probably involve very high risks, so it would be low. As a result, it is not a good time to go to the stock market now or in a year or two.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U14	Now the last two questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U15	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Recently, we could read about another failed investment of Eesti Energia. I'm talking about a cogeneration plant built in Painküla, where heat, electricity and cold were to be produced. It has now become apparent that this station is not suitable, although 43 million euros have been spent. How do you comment on such an investment by Eesti Energia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U16	There are always many wise people in retrospect, but there are probably plenty of those who were wise and did not see any justification for making this investment. In my view, this investment was not justified even when this investment decision was made, and simply because the decision concerned one of the members of the Estonian Energy Council. In this situation, Eesti Energia should not have considered such a risky investment at all. But as far as we all know, an investment of over EUR 4 million has been made, useless, the new owner of Werol does not need this investment. With what negative value Eesti Energia will eventually emerge from this project, we will find out later. In my opinion, there is no justification for paying Werol, in spite of all this, for this old shed, EUR 9 million or whatever the amount was, but I am not a member of the company's board of directors or head of the company. In my opinion, money providers could also start to question investment very seriously on the basis of who is behind these investments. But it seems to me that we're just getting some momentum here. We'll take the EAS, one of the people who previously ran the bank and gave Rein Kilg 100 million kroons of credit, which will now be recovered by court when threatened with bankruptcy. Yes, before investment decisions are made, people's background should be looked at.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U17	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U18	Thank you. The share capital of Eesti Energia was expanded by 150 million euros last year, with another 200 million in this year's budget. At the same time, the state's budget strategy does not foresee any more booking of money for the expansion of the share capital. A member of the Management Board of Eesti Energia has said that in the event of a failure of the stock exchange plans, the government has promised Eesti Energia 400.500 million euros. What exactly has the government promised, and where has it developed a mandate to make this promise if, for example, the country's budgetary strategy does not foresee these amounts?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U19	Thank you. Last year's investment in share capital was necessary to build a new fluid layer block in Auvere. This expansion of the share capital was fully justified. This year the state budget provided 200 million euros for the expansion of the share capital of Eesti Energia, but since some investment needs have fallen, this year such share capital expansion is not needed. Which is why these investment needs have fallen away, it is probably known to the honourable members of the Riigikogu. Firstly, there is no point in talking about another oil plant until the first one is operational. If it takes more time than planned to start the first than it is now, the start-up has already been completed for six months and achieving full capacity may take much longer than planned, then it would not be wise to start the construction of another plant immediately, especially if we do not know how this technology fits our oil shale. Secondly, we obviously do not have the need to invest in nuclear energy, because the Lithuanian people have not told the Visaginas project, so these investment needs will also fall away. So this year the state's additional investments in the expansion of the share capital of Eesti Energia are not foreseen in my opinion. The second block of Auvere, too, is yet to be decided. Consequently, these investments cannot be decided at present either.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U20	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U21	The next question is from Mr Valeri Korb to Mr Rein Lang, Minister of Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U22	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. This year, the second National Programme for Integration, which started in 2008. We remember that before that, in 2007, the first programme had ended. Why am I talking about this? This means that until 2013, these programmes existed, behind them was a lot of work and a lot of money. How do you comment on the results of these programmes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U23	Thank you. The implementation of this second programme can be assessed once the programme has been completed, i.e. after the end of this year. There are certainly certain parts of this programme that have not been completed. It is important to analyse why things have gone so far that targets have not been achieved in all areas. Perhaps these goals were too blue-eyed in their time or unwarranted at all. In order to prevent such errors from happening again, we will try to make the next development plan as comprehensively as possible. The second phase of the development plan is currently underway. We also have our own website www.integration.ee, which is viewed by an average of 50 people a day. That's a pretty good result. In addition to organisations in the third sector, local authorities are also involved in the preparation of this development plan. As I have said many times from this speech chair in the Riigikogu, we are, of course, particularly interested in the involvement of the municipalities of Ida-Viru County, which we have also tried to do. As far as I know, the leadership team is going to Ida-Virumaa this week to meet the organisations there. We hope that this development plan, which is quite wide-ranging and also foresees large costs for the Estonian state, will be more useful and the objectives set will be targeted, clear and feasible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U24	Please, Mr Valeri Korb, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U25	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Your Ministry offered the government a new programme of national integration, i.e. consolidation, until 2020, with a specific chapter relating to the development of Ida-Virumaa. The Ministry is to be commended for that. But is there a passive role in the future programme for Ida-Virumaa, where there are major linguistic and cultural differences compared to other Estonia, or can we talk about equal partnership?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U26	Thank you. The development plan is drawn up by a working group on Ida-Virumaa topics. This working group was formed in February and its first results are also available on the website. This group is led by Rivo Noorkõiv, who is actively involved in integration activities. I hope these results are quite good. If you ask whether people in Ida-Virumaa are taken as partners, the answer is certainly in the affirmative.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U27	Please, Mr Valeri Korb, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U28	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Again from this future integration programme. Of course, it is a national programme, I understand it, but what role do other organisations, such as non-profit organisations and self-government associations, have in fulfilling it? You were only talking about local governments. Non-profit organisations have proposed the creation of an Ida-Virumaa Integration Fund, which could be used by non-profit organisations, local authorities or county government.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U29	Thank you. This is the time to make these proposals. The second phase of the development plan is ongoing. I look at the important paper that in January the activities related to the preparation of the new development plan were introduced to the political groups of the Riigikogu and on 23 April the steering group plans to meet the political groups of the Riigikogu again. So if any proposals have been disregarded or not fully taken into account, it makes sense to put them back on the table. I don't know what else to say about this question. We will do all of this in as transparent a manner as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U30	Now you can ask the questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U31	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, We really met this working group, and it was a very interesting meeting. But there was no answer to the question of how integration progress can be measured and when these integration plans could be completed. Maybe you can answer. How do we measure whether this activity was successful or not? When I asked the people of the Ministry of Culture, I received the answer that this activity is endless and that no measurement is possible here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U32	Thank you. It now smells like a big philosophical debate about what the word 'integration' means and when this activity is no longer needed in Estonia. I think that the representatives of the Ministry of Culture were right in this sense, that neither the Estonian population will remain completely homogeneous, that there will still be representatives of other nations, either permanently or temporarily, and that they will face integration difficulties here in any case. It is the sacred duty of the state to deal with the concerns and problems of these people. That's what these integration plans are for. Of course, Estonia is in a bit of an exceptional situation, as there has been a certain era in our history, which brought a large number of economic refugees together with families whose problems are quite large. Also, to the question of when will their problems finally be solved, I am now indebted to the answer. In any case, they have not been fully resolved by today. Cultural and linguistic integration will continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U33	Please, colleague Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U34	Thank you. You already had some time to answer my question, but not entirely. My experience in the preparation and implementation of integration programmes has been that most of the substantive and financial capacity of these programmes has gone to helping Soviet immigrants and their descendants two or three generations integrate into Estonian society. At the same time, we can talk about increasing new immigration to Estonia, but the emphasis on integration programmes has so far been very strongly in favour of the flow of previous immigrants. The adaptation of new immigrants may be less than needed. Does the new program to be prepared make these proportions more appropriate for tomorrow?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U35	Thank you for a very good question. The development plan is also currently being made to include people who mainly use English as an example when living in Estonia. The website is also available in English. I said that a day, this website is viewed by 50 people, which makes 1500-2000 views a month. The English version of the website is viewed by 8%, i.e. just under a tenth of all viewers. This shows once again that the spike is only going to turn away from Russian-speaking people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U36	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U37	The next question is for Mr Seder, my colleague Ester, from Tuiksole to Helir-Valdor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Agriculture! Four years ago, you decided to merge plant production inspection, regional land improvement offices and land improvement building supervision and expertise office into a joint farm office. You ordered all kinds of research before you joined. However, last year's survey of Fontes shows that according to a salary survey of employees of all public enterprises, the salaries of the employees of the Agricultural Board were third-lower, i.e. some. Before you start merging the following institutions, will you analyse how the merger of the Agricultural Office has actually been, whether the sector's satisfaction has increased as a result of this merger, how much has the state won from this merger and how much has the wage increased?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U39	Thank you for your question. The brief answer is certainly that the merger that we have carried out and which has resulted in the creation of the Agricultural Office has justified itself in every way, both in the opinion of the people who have run this institution and in the opinion of the majority of its employees. The most important thing is the assessment of the agricultural sector itself, and the sector certainly felt that this addition was the right one. The merger of independent, fragmented institutions into the Agricultural Agency and a unified structure has justified itself. I am thinking in particular of the land improvement agencies of their own time, which also had legal problems with their status. They needed to be reorganized. As far as pay is concerned, pay is a problem, I think, in the whole public sector. The Ministry of Agriculture also has a number of other institutions, where pay could and should be higher, but this depends on the country's overall possibilities. Indeed, among the agencies in our area of government, the lowest average wage in the Agricultural Office is the lowest. That, of course, is what we are dealing with. Right now, I don't dare give you a head-to-head salary comparison. Four or five years ago, during the austerity budgets, the payroll of all the employees of our agencies was cut, which also affected the Agricultural Office. Last year, we were able to start rehabilitating wages, and now they have been somewhat restored. I may not be able to give you a comparison for years, but you'll get it afterwards, we'll send it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U40	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, The idea may be good in itself, but in essence, there are still plenty of problems, for example, with the improvement of the land. You always stress the size of investments, but the reality is quite different. The state has a duty to maintain 5437 kilometres of shared flow, but last year only 6% of this was maintained and this year cared for. The financial allocations are extremely small. The preparation of the 2014 budget is ahead. How many percent have you planned to increase the amounts earmarked for the remediation of land improvement sites? Of course, the second question is how much you think the remuneration of the people in this profession could rise.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U42	Thank you. First of all, the land improvement. Yes, this is an area that has certainly been underfunded. Land is an important resource, the most important resource in agricultural production at all. At the moment, we are maintaining public finances at the forefront of the country, and the private sector can also use European Union funds through an investment measure. During this period, unfortunately, it is not possible to finance the maintenance of national upstream flows from European Union funds. We have a new rural development plan in place for the years 2014 to 2020. In this draft, we have written that the country's currents could also be eligible in the future and receive European Union aid. If this is indeed the case, if the government approves it and the European Commission accepts it, then, I think, it will be possible for the country to increase the funding of the currents and improve the situation. However, unfortunately, this possibility was not foreseen in the current rural development plan, which was produced by you as a minister. That is why we do not have this opportunity at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U43	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Smile's redundant. Land improvement agencies were financed very well when I was a minister. But my third question is as follows. Since 1 July 2013, you have planned to merge the Jõgeva Plant Breeding Institute and the Estonian Agricultural Institute. What is the objective of such a merger and how much have you planned to increase the budget of the research community? Will the merger eliminate jobs or create more? Do you really think that the combination of the two poor will create a rich one?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U45	Thank you. I would first like to make one clarification for the continuation of the previous answer. If we look at both the funds in the private sector and at the resources directed towards the up-streams to be maintained by the state, we will see that investment in land improvement has increased significantly during this period, thanks to the European Union's financial resources as a whole. But now the merger between the Estonian Institute of Agriculture and the Jõgeva Plant Breeding Institute. I dare say it has been discussed for four or five years. We've ordered a number of studies. The Ministry of Education has carried out two evals, the last target being in 2012. These studies and evalvations have given us a clear conviction that it is reasonable to combine the potential and resources of these two institutions. We are not talking about losing one institution, but about pooling resources and potential. This will allow for better external cooperation, use of material resources and opportunities and avoid duplication. The aim is not to save public money at the expense of these institutions, but we want to make better use of the funds and create better working conditions for people. We have foreseen a wage increase as a result of the merger of institutions. You've been talking about salaries today and asking about it. Indeed, one of the biggest problems facing the public sector is how to keep employees motivated. Pay is very important here. We have also planned wage growth in connection with the merger of institutions. It's been planned this year. I very much hope that the merger will take place this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U46	Now there will be questions registered on the spot. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U47	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! Is an institution called the Ministry of Agriculture even needed in Estonia? We know that agriculture accounts for only 3% of our GDP, but there are other industries that provide many times more. Agriculture accounts for 3% of GDP, 2% of people are occupied, but it has its own ministry. Perhaps this ministry should be called the Ministry of Rural Affairs or Rural Economy, for example? Otherwise, other sectors will feel affected. For example, the construction materials sector accounts for 7% of GDP, transit and transport even more.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U48	Thank you. It certainly cannot be handled in such a simplified way that we look at the percentage of GDP and then consider whether one ministry or the other is necessary. For example, let us think about environmental protection and how much it creates in terms of GDP. Do we even need a ministry like this? Such a primitive approach can certainly not be used to build one country. The importance and importance of the Ministry of Agriculture is felt every day. I believe you've had breakfast this morning. You look very good. Agriculture is a strategic area for food production, which is becoming increasingly important and important. Whether the country is the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, for example, whether the Land Office is attached to it, whether other rural and regional policies are dealt with in the Ministry of Agriculture or in another structural unit, has been decided differently in the countries of the European Union, but in most Member States of the European Union the Ministry of Agriculture exists. I don't know any countries where the ministry doesn't exist right now, even though the name may be different. In some parts, forestry, rural issues, regional policy, consumer protection are integrated into agriculture, but it is a separate ministry of agriculture. I think, from a strategic point of view, especially as long as there is a common agricultural policy in the European Union, which is a completely separate world and where very much money is used, the existence of such an independent ministry is also necessary in the Republic of Estonia. You can, of course, discuss functions. We have also had our proposals on how the division of functions between ministries could be changed. Perhaps in the future these changes will also take place.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U49	Please, colleague Tiit Tammsaar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U50	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I, too, believe that the Ministry of Agriculture was, is and will remain. But the question is the merger of the Estonian Institute of Agriculture and the Jõgeva Plant Breeding Institute. A minor correction must be made: the transfer of the Agricultural Institute was already discussed in 2003 and has been ten years since. But why the river anyway? In 2003, we discussed that perhaps it could be taken to Kuusiku, where there are 200 hectares of state land and a beautiful house, which was then almost finished, etc. Why the river anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U51	Thank you, and thank you very much for the clarification. If this has been discussed for ten years, Minister Tuiksoo will certainly also be aware of the discussions that took place before my time. I haven't been in this long. This debate has been long and thorough. It has been decided that the legal address of this body is in Jõgeval. Physically, it is not possible to move to one institution to Jõgeva overnight or within one year. That is not our goal either. In the long term, it is reasonable that the institution will operate in one place, and we think that this place could indeed be Jõgeva. The majority of this connected establishment is located in Jõgeva, there is more production, there is also fields and there is no land resources. This is therefore certainly a well-founded decision. At the same time, this merged institution will continue to operate across the Republic of Estonia, its experimental fields and test points will actually remain located across the country. There is definitely something left for Saku and Kuusik, there are also experiments on manufacturers all over Estonia. Merging does not mean that the activity as a whole is concentrated in one place. We must continue research in several places, in regions with different geographical positions and different soils. Physically, we can never concentrate the work of this institution on just one point. As regards the EVIKA and other structural units that have been developed and functioning, they will certainly continue to operate in their former location as long as it makes sense. The management of the merged body shall decide when a smooth transfer is most appropriate and reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U52	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Lember.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U53	Thank you. My question relates to the main subject of the question: is the Ministry planning to reorganize the ministry's relationship with Tori's horse farming in so-called houses and lands?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U54	We would have wanted to reorganize these relations a long time ago. We have been negotiating for quite a number of years, but we are bound by an agreement that has been concluded for more than 20 years, a long-term agreement from the end of the 1990s, which will continue to apply for a long time in the future. This agreement has not been very successful for either party. There are a great many ambiguities and unregulated issues, concerning property obligations and rights and investment. It is not regulated what can be done in the event of termination of the contract, how they are taken into account. It's a completely failed contract. It was done in its own time and space, but today the legal space has changed. If at that time there was no animal support for the endangered breed and such an agreement was necessary, the assets were transferred on condition that certain breeds of horses were preserved, then this problem will now be solved by the support for the rearing of the endangered breed. Tori's breed of horses is far more outside Tori than Toris. So the country's interests and the whole situation have changed. We've been negotiating with the tenant to renegotiate the lease, but we haven't reached an agreement. We'll continue the negotiations. The tenant owes us part of the rent, we've also turned to court. Perhaps the solution must be resolved through a court of law, but we will, of course, try to avoid it during the negotiations. But if it doesn't work out, then the court will finally decide what happens. However, we are interested in reorganising these relations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U55	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U56	The last question is from my colleague Kajar Lember to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U57	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I believe that you followed closely and with interest the process of the people's assembly, as well as what happened on the day of the debate. I just want to know how you feel about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U58	I was watching it, but as intensely as I was, it's a question of my own. On the day of the debate, I skied, but later I looked at what was discussed and decided. That is, in itself, a way for me to find out what public opinion is likeable. I believe that not only the Reform Party, but also other parties, have used this way to explain the public's support for different ideas. At least the Reform Party has been using this method for at least eight years. This is the time I can say that about. We have gathered people together and tried to explain in such a community how many different ideas are supported or condemned. How many people are together, it may be expected that there will be a lot of strong ideas that have been given to be realised in the future. I hope that the proposals that the President of the Republic handed over to the Riigikogu yesterday will indeed receive serious attention in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U59	Dear colleague Kajar Lember, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U60	Thank you. I'll continue with your answer. Can you perhaps highlight some of the ideas that were supported by the national community, which would be necessary and useful for Estonia to implement quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U61	After all, there was nothing in the ideas that had been discussed in the public assembly that had not been discussed before, which could indeed be said that this is something completely new, and no one has ever thought of it before. The ideas discussed have been addressed in society in the past. The topicality of some ideas has increased over time, while some have declined. It is difficult to highlight this most important. Obviously, the most important topic is the inclusion of the people. I know that Andrei Korobeinik has dealt very seriously with the subject of the memos at the Reform Party. I believe that this direction, to involve the public more in the decision-making process at different stages of the decision-making process, is the only way to think about democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U62	Please, Mr Lember, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U63	Thank you. One of the many proposals and topics that led to the debate was the funding of political parties in the population. Experts have considered it important, which was also supported by the general public, that the electoral costs should be capped or the advertising should be subject to specific volume limits. Is there any hope that the Head of Government will support this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U64	This is likely to happen without the head of government expressing their views on it. Advertising companies, as well as newspapers, television and radio, are likely to face more difficult times, as advertising restrictions are likely to be imposed on election advertising and severe additional restrictions on alcohol and tobacco advertising. All of this means income foregone from certain media publications. But if the public opinion is that advertising is evil, perhaps the legislator, the Honourable Riigikogu, this opinion must be reprimanded and the evil reduced a little. There is another way to approach it: advertising is part of the right of every citizen, every person to express themselves; it is part of freedom of expression. Apparently, both those who claim that excessive advertising is evil and those who believe that excessive advertising bans are evil. Where there is the right balance, it is for the Riigikogu to decide. It is certainly not right for those who think that political advertising is evil at all. We also know from the immediate neighbourhood how, for example, limiting political advertising on radio has led to many people not having clear political preferences before the elections. These political preferences have not arisen either during the elections and, of course, even after the elections, people have not been able to identify with the institutions that have been manned by the elected parliament. This explains the very lack of trust in the institutions of some Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U65	Please, a matter registered on the ground, Mr Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U66	Thank you very much. Among the many proposals of the Riigikogu was the proposal to implement the zipper principle on the electoral lists, which means that men and women are on the list alternately. This gives voters a better overview of who to elect in the Riigikogu. As a party leader, how do you like this idea, and do you intend to implement it in your party, knowing that the leader of your body of women signed up to this idea of the Estonian Association of Entrepreneurship Women?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U67	Thank you. As far as I am concerned, this idea was not among the 15 people who received the support of the Riigikogu, but it does not interfere with this idea here in the Riigikogu to warmly promote and persuade your fellows to have your fair idea written in the law. I myself am opposed to the implementation and limitation of quotas on the basis of external characteristics. I value a much higher democratic decision-making mechanism, where decision-makers can rely on their conviction as to whether the candidate is fit for office and do not have to rely on age, gender or other quotas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U68	Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U69	Thank you. Prime Minister! You wondered whether advertising was evil or not. However, I think that the people who came to the public assembly did not wonder whether advertising was evil at all, but rather expressed their opinion. There was a vote on whether the impact of money on policy could be smaller and the link between election results and the amount of money spent was weaker. Having been with these theme seminars myself, I think it was the content of this debate. I believe that this was also the case on 6 April. Do you agree that the impact of money on policy could be smaller? Could it be less difficult for political parties to spend as much money as possible at all costs in order to carry out a successful election campaign? What do you think you can do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U70	Thank you. I do not think that the impact of money on politics in Estonia would be in any way unnaturally significant. I have repeatedly referred to Fareed Zakaria, in my opinion, a very thorough work entitled The Future of Freedom, which is also available in Estonian in the Jüri Adams translation. This work has thoroughly addressed the impact of money on policy making. We and I believe that, in this Chamber too, at least in the view of those people who have not read Fareed Zakaria, the surprising argument is that, according to the example of California, the impact of money on direct democracy was three times greater than that of all the election campaigns that applied to all representative bodies in the same year. It's a delicate subject. There can be no simplistic approach to ban electoral advertising for example, then the effect of money disappears, we do not take advantage of representative democracy, we use the opportunities of direct democracy, then the influence of money decreases. These claims are very primitive and simplified. Rather, scientific literature confirms the opposite: in direct democracy, the power of money is much greater. I am not saying that democracy in America is somehow less because there are massive and well-funded electoral campaigns there. In the United States, elections are also known to be influenced by how much money one or the other candidate has been able to raise. It doesn't matter what he spends it on, the amount of money in itself gives a certain advantage in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U71	Please, Mr Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U72	Thank you. The entire population process was led by experts who were involved in this work. As Prime Minister, how do you assess the level and competence of these experts and the content they gave to this whole process?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U73	You'll understand the question wasn't appropriate. What kind of judge am I now? If I were to evaluate Marju Lauristin, because I have some kind of weather view and experience, I would probably give him the same opinion. If I were to evaluate Silver Meikari, you would know my judgment. Well, what kind of expert was he now? But I'd rather give up my assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U74	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U75	We have some time. Anyone else want to ask a question? Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee! Tell me, please, who do you want to ask a question to?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U76	Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U77	Okay. Please, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U78	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I'm glad you met our big neighbor's prime minister last week. It has been said that the meeting took place in a friendly atmosphere. I have been interested in economic issues with Russia, both Nord Stream and transit issues. Did you have any conversations about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U79	The issue of Nord Stream was not addressed at the bilateral meeting, but the representative of Nord Stream was present at the conference. There was no discussion on this subject. Transit issues relate to the simplicity or complexity of border crossings. In this context, we can probably say that we also addressed this issue, although not directly. We addressed trade in two countries. Trade between two countries has increased rapidly, but there are still problems with border crossings. These problems need to be addressed and solutions sought. I hope that this bilateral meeting was useful in this respect. Freight volumes are quite large and considerable. Estonia's exports to Russia have increased significantly over the last ten years, and last year Russia's share of total exports was 12%. I do not think that this share should increase very quickly, but regardless of whether this percentage is 2.4, as it was in 2000, or 12, as it was last year, no cargo should simply be inefficiently waiting for the crossing of the day or even a week. This is a problem that needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U80	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U81	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! The topic of Estonian Energia's share capital is broad and spacious. Two minutes of response went unnoticed, so you never got a real answer. I offer you two more minutes so that you can answer the question whether the statement made by the member of the board of Eesti Energia, which appeared in the press, is true, that in the event of the collapse of the stock exchange plans, the Government of the Republic has promised Eesti Energia 400.500 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U82	Thank you. First of all, there's got to be a good business idea. If there is a good business idea, if the realisation of the idea promises a profit, perhaps as your legislator, you will also decide to finance this idea. That's how it's been. We expanded Eesti Energia's share capital by 150 million euros last year. I do not rule out that this is the case in the future. But it's all about having a good business idea. At the moment, as I said, even the money intended for the expansion of share capital in the state budget this year will not be used. This is precisely because the realisation of any business idea has not reached the stage at which such an expansion of the share capital would be justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U83	Ladies and gentlemen, Question Time is coming to an end. Thank you very much for asking me questions. Many thanks to the members of the government for answering questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U84	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 10th working week session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Colleague Yana Toom.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U85	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Central Party Group, I have the honour to hand over the draft law amending the National Death Support Act. Why are we filing this bill? I am not going to repeat here for a long time the arguments that sounded in this Chamber when we discussed the draft law on state funeral allowance, with which we wanted to re-establish the opportunity for Estonian residents to receive funeral support when they have covered the costs of their own burial. When we discussed this draft and the coalition voted it down in this Chamber, there was several times during the discussions the argument that funeral support could be needs-based. We discussed this in early October. It's been six months, no bill has come from the coalition. That is why we are handing over this bill again. We hope that this time in the course of our debate, however, we will give the people of Estonia the opportunity to receive funeral allowance, as was the case in 2009. I would remind you that this support was withdrawn in the summer of 2009, half year. It was a bang for many people, and to date it is a subject of passion both in society and in the media. I hope that this time this bill will pass through all stages and we will still adopt it as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U86	Thank you. I have adopted a bill on behalf of the board. If this bill complies with the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board decides that it will be accepted within three working days. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a draft Act on the ratification of the Convention establishing the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites, launched on 8 April, and the Protocol amending it, of which the commission is the Committee on the Environment. Second, the Government of the Republic s. a draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol on Privileges and Integrity of the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites, launched on 8 April, of which the commission is the Committee on the Environment. Third, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Penal Register Act, initiated on 8 April, the commission of which is the Committee on Legal Affairs. Fourth, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws, initiated on 8 April, of which the commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Board of the Riigikogu has changed its s. a Decision No 62 of 8 April 2002 entitled "Consultation document of the European Commission on State aid in the agriculture and forestry sector' and "Department of the de minimis Regulation' and appointed the Economic Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions and questionnaires of the Government of the Republic in place of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U87	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The first point is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Place Names and Land Books Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No negotiations will be opened, we can go to the final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the final vote the draft law amending the Law on the Names Act and the Land Book Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 362. Please vote! 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U88	The amendment of the Act on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and related to other laws... Ladies and gentlemen, I can't even hear my voice! Quiet, please! The first reading of the draft Act on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. I would like a presentation by Minister of Social Affairs of the Speaker's Office, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft amends the Health Services Organisation Act in order to clarify the regulation of nursing care authorised independently and to provide for the regulation of a separate nursing hospital. As a result of the amendment, the term 'care treatment' is replaced by'stand-alone in-patient nursing care' and the term 'care hospital' is replaced by'service hospital'. Changing definitions will ensure better clarity, i.e. the content of the institution will be better aligned with the name of the institution. The change makes it clear that nurses operate and run the process in nursing hospitals, and the doctor is a consultant. Today, there have been quite a lot of misleading opinions and even resentment, as doctors are expected to provide hospital care, but then it is discovered that nurses are actually doing so. Actually, that's the way it is. In many cases, an old-name nursing hospital and a nursing hospital are also expected to receive active care, which is not known to be provided or provided in the future. Another important change is that nursing homes, regardless of their ownership, will also be allowed to provide home nursing services in the framework of independent outpatient nursing care. So far, it has had restrictions on ownership, which we are losing with the bill. In addition, the concept of daily care of an outpatient specialist is introduced to the level of the Act. Day care is an outpatient health care service which requires short-term monitoring of a person's condition, after which a person leaves the health care provider on the same day. This means that the person in need of daily care stays with the service provider for less than 24 hours, but requires longer monitoring if this is provided by the admission of an outpatient specialist. One of the objectives of the draft is to extend the competence of nurses. One specific, very delicate, but very important part of it is to enable the sister to independently identify the fact of the death of a person who died in nursing care. Right now, sisters don't have that right. The change is due to the fact that both the inpatient nursing care service and home nursing service are the main activities of nursing activities and nursing processes, as has been said before, are managed independently by the nurse. The cause of death will be identified and the medical death report will continue to be issued by the person's family doctor or physician, as this requires medical competence. Let us be clear and be informed in Parliament's plenary that we would like to make one addition to the draft. We want to extend the regulation on starting medical allowance. This should contribute to better achieving the objective of the initial support. With the amendment, we want to extend the period after the end of the residency period during which the aid can be applied for, and we want to reduce the required workload, amend the list of special medical care specialties and the requirements for hospital types and areas. We will present a more precise description of this within the deadline for tabling amendments to the Committee on Social Affairs. On the background of the proposal, let us say so much that the principles reflected in the draft are set out in one of the points of the Health Good Will Agreement, which provides for an increase in the independent competence of nurses. The proposal has very broad support in the area of health. Both the nurses' trade association and other health professionals support the bill. The general view is that although there may be the impression that this is largely a formal change, this formal change is very important in real life. I therefore ask you to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U90	Thank you, Minister. Good colleagues, do you have any questions? It is. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U91	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! In larger nursing homes, up to 85% of clients require regular health care, mostly nursing care. That is why nursing homes are given the opportunity to apply for a nursing licence. It has also been said that the existence of a licence does not guarantee the financing of the health insurance fund. If the nursing home receives this licence, who will finance the service? How will this problem be solved? In most cases, these customers need health care not once, but for the rest of their lives, who for three months and who for ten years, as God provides. How will the financing problem be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U92	Thank you. Funding for home care is certainly a wider issue. As a result of this change, the nursing home will not be financed in the same way as the nursing hospital. However, it is important to know that in some nursing homes there are already nurses who are practically providing nursing services, but there are a number of problems that are unresolved as regards the fact that they are not officially able to act as nurses in this institution. One problem is certainly that, for the services provided by a nurse, the rules and documentation of treatment cases are set out in a much more precise way than just the assistance provided by a nurse (or what it is currently called in a nursing home). The second question is the seniority of nurses and its possible interruption. Although they work de facto as a nurse, de iure is not allowed to provide nursing services. This does not necessarily mean changes in funding. In many parts of the world, this is an important relief. I dare say that this will also help legalise the real situation, people do not have to play hide-and-seek, and nurses can also provide nursing services directly and with dignity in nursing homes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U93	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As we know, the issue of the development plan for the hospital network is also under discussion. It provides for various stages, tasks and deadlines. Is this draft also a preparation for the implementation of the development plan for the hospital network? Is this bill one of its foundations or topics?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U95	Thank you. Nursing care is also provided by a number of hospital network development plan hospitals, but nursing care is provided in a much wider range of healthcare providers. Let's take Põlva County. Nursing aid is provided in Kõlva Hospital, which is a hospital network hospital, as well as in Räpina. Räpina Hospital does not offer active care to this extent and Räpina is not a hospital hospital. This change has nothing to do with any possible changes to the development plan of the hospital network. But I would like to say the following about the changes to the development plan for the hospital network in this Chamber. It is very easy to create misconceptions and fears, as if changes to the development plan of the hospital network would close any department or change something very fundamental. It's not like that. The objective of the Hospital Network Development Plan is to set minimum standards for hospitals of different levels at national level, to lay down which specialties must be represented in the hospital in an outpatient setting and which specialties must work 24 hours a day. Once this minimum programme is completed, the State has the possibility to grant an operating licence for a specific hospital, either at a local or general hospital. However, the hospital network development plan does not prohibit hospitals from providing services on a wider scale. If there is demand and doctors on the ground, this does not preclude the provision of services on a wider scale. Therefore, I dare say that the fear that someone might start shutting down departments at one hospital or another in the hospital centre in connection with changes to the hospital network development plan is certainly unfounded. I've confirmed it many times from this remote. I know that many people have taken advantage of these fears in local politics, but I certainly do not approve of this, because it has very little to do with reality. What services are provided on the ground depends primarily on local people and local hospital managers, most of which specialized doctors can be employed by the hospital. It is the responsibility of the State to provide for a specific minimum programme, a certain level of which no less services may be provided. We're about to do it now. Our interest is to ensure that all hospitals in county centres receive a number of specialist doctors at least at the outpatient level, to ensure reception also at the inpatient level, as well as emergency medical care 24 hours a day. Such subjects have created emotions beyond what is worth. I, too, have read articles that say that in many counties the provision of obstetrics is stopped. It is often referred to as three counties, where the maternity department has not been present for years. The closure of maternity units in the rest of the counties is certainly not a decision on the level of the hospital network development plan, but a decision on the part of local hospitals and local communities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U96	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The profession of nurse of medicine is quite required in the labour market, both in the Nordic countries and in Estonia. How does this law affect the state of our labour market? Will there be enough nurses, are they sufficiently prepared and how hard will competition be for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U98	Thank you. The demand for persons who have a sister's invitation is very high in Estonia and will continue to be so. This bill, which aims to raise the nurse's invitation to prestige, as well as a number of other decisions taken or made in the field of health care, confirm this. We need to deal with the need for the number of nurses to meet the demand for people in this specialty. In addition to the fact that different positions require people who have a nurse's invitation and that there are also foreign, say, attractions, we must take into account that nurses move far more out of the healthcare sector than doctors do. That's what worries me the most. Ensuring the growth of nurses and raising the nurse's prestige are certainly very important for the Ministry of Social Affairs and health care in Estonia as a whole. The professional associations of nurses, which, by the way, are the largest and probably the most influential trade union organisations in Estonia, are very supportive of the content of this draft. They appreciate it in such a way that the prestige of the sisters increases as a result of this bill. But it's just one step, these steps we're still planning. We are also considering very seriously today to extend the independent professional competence of nurses in certain nuances. Once we get to that, it will probably be more detailed in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U99	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In response to a recent inquiry, and today you also said that no department will be closed during your ministry at county hospitals. However, the development plan for hospitals envisages something else. As far as I know, the Health Insurance Fund finances these hospitals on the basis of a development plan. As your minister, shouldn't we be guided by a development plan? If you don't follow, what do you need a development plan for?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U101	Thank you. You seem to have heard something from somewhere, but you have not seen or read any documents. We are talking today about a proposal for professional communication on the development plan for the hospital network, which does not yet exist, which has not been validated anywhere, which is a working version of the working version. That's one. Secondly, I have never said, nor can I have ruled out, that no department will be closed in any hospital during my ministry, because it is an independent decision of the hospital. We have hospitals owned predominantly by municipalities, and the Minister is not in a position to propose such a decision on the ground. However, I have said, and I am also saying, that I am not going to make this decision to go to one hospital or another to shut down a department in the state. This is exactly the same with regard to Põlva Hospital, where your question is definitely motivated. It's no big secret that Põlva Hospital has a small number of births. This is a major concern of many experts. However, as long as a sufficient number of gynecologists, surgeons and anesthesiologists are guaranteed and Põlva Hospital is able to provide high-quality obstetrics, regardless of whether there are 300, 400 or 500 children a year, I, as a minister, do not want to make a decision to start shutting down the department nationally. The development plan for the hospital network, which you have probably read in the working document in the paper, but which you probably have not read on paper, is actually a different document. This sets a minimum that must definitely be in a hospital in a county centre, such as a general hospital or a local hospital. If the hospital meets these minimum conditions, there are those, these and these specialties, it may apply for the status of that hospital or another hospital. The draft Hospital Network Development Plan does not provide for the violent closure of the departments and does not say that, for God's sake, this or another service may not be provided in this or another county hospital. There's no such thing in it. But the way the hospital network development plan ends up, the way we adopt the development plan, whether and how we do it, whether we do it at ministerial level as a document, whether we want to confirm it at government level, is demonstrated by time. In any event, all on-site intimidations using the development plan for the hospital network as an argument are unfounded. I repeat my recommendation, which is also printed on the front of the Põlva page, not to use it to intimidate the draft hospital network development plan, because there is nothing that is attributed to the draft document.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U102	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In answer to my question about the financing of nursing services in nursing homes, you said that there is no problem here, because the people who provide nursing services are anyway on the payroll of the nursing home, and it simply needs to be legalised, which means that they have so far provided health care without authorisation and without regularisation. You know, we, the people involved, have known this, but we've been silent about it, protecting patients and sisters. Now you said in the Chamber of Riigikogu that health care is often provided without a licence, which is a criminal offence. Why did you say that here? What are we gonna do now besides know what's been verbatimized? I guess I should say thank you, but I won't!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U104	Thank you. You're very good at assigning me things I certainly haven't said. As for the fact that in several nursing homes, nurses still work today, I do not believe that there can be any secret. However, they will not be able to provide health care, and they will probably not, because, as you rightly said, they do not have the opportunity to do so. However, this does not mean that the new law could not improve the situation for those with a nurse's education and for those who could provide healthcare properly in nursing homes. I think so. I think that the clarification of the regulation will remove the delicate line between legality and the grey zone. I do not believe that anyone is breaking the law, rather I think it would be appropriate, in order to increase the confidence of these same people and institutions, to make the law more precise and to establish precisely that they can do what their education has empowered them to do. It makes no sense for us to denounce it nationally or to call it a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U105	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U106	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I ask for clarification: in the event that this hospital network development plan is carried out, do you exclude that there will be no restrictions that will exclude the future work of the maternity and surgery department in Põlva, Võru and Valga, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U107	It is quite difficult to understand the substance of your question, and it is even more difficult to understand the connection between this issue and the draft we are debating today. However, what I am saying is that my personal preference for the hospital network is not to look crampedly at which departments or specialties to close down, but to look at how to work more closely with higher-ranking hospitals, how to ensure, together with a higher-ranking hospital, that every county centre guarantees safe and high-quality healthcare and that the hospital guarantees at least the minimum amount of medical care that a person needs to receive near his home. These will certainly include emergency medical care. In areas very distant from Tallinn and Tartu and larger centres, such as Hiiu and Saaremaa, the minimum programme must also include obstetrics as a requirement of the state. I take the view that the same minimum requirement could apply not only on the basis of the size of the county offered by professionals as a starting point, but also on the basis of the distance of the county's most distant angle from the nearest hospital of maternity care. Therefore, in my opinion, for example, the maternity department in Võru should certainly continue. But this is not unfortunately my decision, this decision can be made by hospital administrators, hospital owners. I know that Võru is working very hard to keep the list of specialties as it was and to extend the service captions. They are very seriously considering strategic cooperation and even networking with the University of Tartu Hospital. In my opinion, Estonia's health care should move in this direction. When we see the flag of the University of Tartu Hospital in front of the South Estonia Hospital, we know as patients that this means that the University of Tartu Hospital has taken responsibility for the specialist medical care services provided in this building. This is a very strong argument for me as a patient, because the trademark of the University of Tartu Hospital is the absolute top of Estonian health care. If I were a young doctor and I was considering going to a general hospital, it would certainly be a compelling argument for me if this general hospital had been seduced by a larger organization, it would be part of a large and very respectable organization. Then my career as a young doctor would be much safer in this place. I therefore dare to advise local politicians and hospital managers (I have already done so in many places) to think about such cooperation, to plan it, to consider it very seriously, whether and what it would be like for both local people as patients and local hospitals, for example in the sense of the employer's prestige, to win these steps. I believe that these steps would be very much to be won. If we could achieve that every county centre is responsible for the quality of service at a higher-ranking hospital, I think this is a more secure guarantee for both the patient and the doctor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U108	Maret Maripuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U109	Thank you. Good minister! Once the law enters into force, it gives special care homes and general care homes the opportunity to apply for a home nursing licence. This will certainly put pressure on the distribution of money at the health insurance fund. Is it discussed at the Health Insurance Fund now that budget strategies are being carried out everywhere that there will be an increase in home care and inpatient nursing by 2014 and will this be noticeable? The need for this service is great.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U110	Thank you. We are still discussing the budgets for the next few years in the Health Insurance Fund at the level of overall volumes; we have not yet decided on a series of decisions for the next few years. This is self-evident because only on 2 April the spring economic forecast was published on the basis of which the Health Insurance Fund must plan its work. As a whole, the increase in nursing services is planned somewhat faster than the increase in other lines of the health fund's budget, but there are other reasons. One reason for this is that nursing hospitals have seen a surge in beds in recent years. In many places, new nursing departments or even nursing hospitals are being built. This, in turn, creates an advance booking in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund so that all these places can be financed. For example, Rakvere and Keila, as well as many other buildings, are still at the construction stage. At the end of last year the construction work was completed at the Western Tallinn Central Hospital in Viljandi, Järvamaa. The list is very, very long. Hospitals have not only been repaired, but places have been built up to a significant extent. The Health Insurance Fund will certainly also fulfil its obligations where the number of seats may be increased. The agreements were already largely concluded when applications for euro projects were submitted. It is very important that, in addition to the Health Insurance Fund, local authorities also fulfil their commitments. In response to Viktor Vassilyev's inquiry, we have been forced to admit that, unfortunately, there have also been local governments in Estonia, which, despite having promised that, when new places were built, they would participate in the maintenance of these places by a certain percentage, have not fulfilled their obligations to the extent permitted. One concrete example that Viktor Vassilyev rightly pointed out concerns Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U111	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U112	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Until 31 December last year, rural governments were responsible for organising the work of family doctors. I remember the decision was made in the autumn that an office would be set up at the Ministry of Social Affairs. I thought it was settled that eight people would work there. It's April. Can you comment on the first steps that have been taken or on how this work has started?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U113	Thank you. Since this issue is highly creative in relation to the draft, I will not dwell on it for very long. I can tell you so much that it is true that since the beginning of this year the topic of family doctors and the organisation of all their work have been transferred to the Health Board. It is being dealt with very intensively. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs has already had a group of members of the board of the family doctors' association, the Head of the Health Insurance Fund, the representative of the Health Board, the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu and I as Minister. We discuss topical issues every month. We have discussed the need to find a new family doctor in Värska because the previous one closed the list, or how to solve the problem that there are quite a number of persons on the list of family doctors who do not have health insurance and who have not been in contact with a family doctor for years, but they are holding the seats for other patients who would very, very much like to be on the list of this doctor. We have a lot of problems and issues. We will deal with them very intensively in the Ministry of Social Affairs and in this working group, to which we will also involve Parliament's Social Affairs Committee in the form of its chairman.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U114	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U115	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is very nice to hear that if you were a young doctor, you would both go to work and give birth to the hospital in front of which the flag of the University of Tartu Hospital flies. Believe me, both East-Tallinn Central Hospital and North-Estonian Regional Hospital are signs on their own and highly valued in medicine. You can also go there to work and give birth. But in order to link the matter to the bill, I will say that it is a very good draft. My question relates to the question of Mr Maret Maripuu. Indeed, the Board of Health Insurance should take into account that a number of nursing homes may start applying for additional resources. When the law comes into force, they have a legal basis. The nurses will also meet for professional work. So this is a very good law, but apply for more money.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U116	Thank you. As far as childbirth is concerned, my family has a personal and extremely positive experience from East Tallinn Central Hospital. I am absolutely certain and know from the circle of friends and acquaintances that just as positive experiences can be gained from West Tallinn Central Hospital. I don't know much about those who were born in PERH because there's no maternity department in PERH. But that's it. I fully agree with your idea that the trademark of Northern Estonia Regional Hospital and many other hospitals is very highly valued in Estonian health care. I totally agree with that. Despite the fact that some specific cases are sometimes dealt with in a very biased way in the public domain (where doctors and hospitals, as you know, cannot comment on cases, because it would require the disclosure of sensitive personal data), despite the fact that sometimes we hear about negative cases in Estonian health care, I dare say that Estonian health care is at a very good level. Those people who work as doctors or nurses in Estonia are actually talking about the bill, and I am glad that you support this bill, are professionals, and the field as a whole is exceptionally strong. This is also borne out by the fact that independent experts (not the people of the Ministry of Social Affairs who believe in Estonian health care and Estonian doctors anyway, it makes sense that we keep and evaluate our own) have looked at the areas where they estimate that Estonia has the greatest export potential, i.e. international competitiveness, the areas where we provide high-quality services, and health care is one of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U117	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U118	Thank you. Dear Minister, This bill aims to enable nursing homes to apply for the possibility to provide home nursing services. For this purpose, a licence must be obtained. One form of property for nursing homes is also municipal nursing homes. How is it regulated by this bill? Can local authorities also apply for this possibility? Do they also incur any financial burdens, expenses? How are they covered?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U119	Thank you. That's the right question. It is precisely for nursing homes established by local authorities that this restriction applies in the current law, and it is precisely for them to have this additional opportunity now. In this sense, it is a very legitimate and precise question. The funding will still be carried out in accordance with the general principles on the basis of which home care and various health services in general are financed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U120	Minister, Inara Luis has another question for you. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said that this right would arise in municipal nursing homes. You missed the second half of my question. Whether local authorities incur any liability in the form of expenditure in connection with a licence, because it is necessary to repair nursing homes and to bring them into line with certain regulations or legal requirements. Do local authorities also have any financial obligations? When developing this bill, have you had any cooperation with local government associations?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U122	Thank you for your question. As a matter of certainty, I will answer it in writing. I am quite sure that we have also coordinated this draft with the Union of Cities and the Association of Rural Governments, but I need to look up written material just in case to answer you as accurately as possible. I will also send you a reply on funding in writing, because there may be some finests that are important here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U123	Minister, there are no further questions. Thank you. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Social Affairs Committee, Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the amendment of the Health Services Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the draft law amending other laws 392 at its meeting on 18 March. The draft was presented by the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. He did it very thoroughly, like here in the saalis. I'm not gonna go over his story again. In addition to the Minister for Social Affairs, Heli Paliste, Head of Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, took part in the discussion. These issues, which were discussed in the Commission, were almost identical to those that sounded in this Chamber. One question that has not been discussed here is the question of increasing the competence of nurses. This means that the change will allow the sister to identify the fact of the death of the person on her own. In addition, the person's doctor or family doctor has the right to establish the fact of death. If the change takes effect, the nurse can independently identify the fact of death, but the cause of death will continue to be identified by a doctor, in particular a doctor or family doctor who consults the nursing hospital. In the committee, the question arose as to whether a nurse's working time would go into the retirement account if she worked in a nursing home. The answer was that if the nurse is in the health care professional register and the nursing home has all the requirements met, then, yes, it is included in the period. No further issues were discussed in the Commission. The following consensual decisions were taken by the Commission: to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 10 April, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 24 April. As I said, all decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U125	Dear waitress, thank you. There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Viktor Vassilyev, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U126	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, There are two kinds of laws. There are those that have been called to regulate our lives, whether to make our lives better or worse, to carry on whatever they want, and there are laws that are based on life itself and bring legislation into line with real life. That's the law. Yeah, it's an absolutely necessary law. It was created so that the initiative came from below. Officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who had been very aware of the problem for years, dealt with this matter by specialists and representatives of nurses and nursing homes. I must thank the former Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, who allowed this law to mature nicely until the new Minister of Social Affairs came and reaped its fruits. The law itself is very necessary. He has two aspects. One is purely cosmetic, terminology is brought into line with real life, and things are called the right names. But there's a very good side to the law. In fact, about 85% of people in nursing homes consume health care, nursing services. Of course they have to have it. You know, Estonia is in a slightly different situation from the developed European countries. In an advanced country goes to a boarding house, a nursing home, an institution of this person who has just reached a certain period of life. He has money, he doesn't want to be a burden to the family, and he chooses a home based on his resources that he likes, whether it's a boarding house or whatever. In Estonia, a person who is so old and sick gets into a nursing home that he is no longer able to handle his business well. That is why most of the patients in nursing homes are old, chronically ill people. Nursing homes are now given the opportunity to apply for a licence to provide nursing services. Of course it's a pretty big job. Nursing homes must meet certain requirements relating to the provision of health care services, are certain requirements for premises and installations, these requirements being laid down by the Minister of Social Affairs in a regulation. Care centres must train staff, staff must receive periodic training. These costs are pretty high. Of course, the official recruitment of nurses into nursing homes is not only accompanied by a salary cost, but may involve quite a lot of money. Now we have taken a big step forward, but there is still a way to go, and there is a way to go, because funding must also be secured. Today, there is no mention of how nursing services in nursing homes are financed. Yeah, maybe the people who are currently on the payroll are still working on the same salary, but there is no money to cover the costs of equipment, training and equipment. This should be separated by the Health Insurance Fund. But once again, the health insurance fund finances such a service on a case-by-case basis. But if a person is lying in bed in a nursing home, he is chronically ill, attached to a bed like a letter stamp on an envelope, then there must be some continuity, not on a case-by-case basis. So there's still a lot of work to do. But the law is positive in that we are taking a step in the very right direction. I am happy to welcome and support this law and I call on everyone with a mind to support it. Those who do not support it will be punished by God that man will live for a very long time and never know who will ever change his diapers for what money. So we vote for the law and life goes in the right direction. May God give us all health and long life so that we can wait for the right results! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U127	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 392 amendments. April 24, 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the second item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U128	Let's move on to the third item. The first reading of the bill to amend the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask the Minister of the Environment of the Riigikogu Chair Keit Pentus-Rosimannud!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today, at first reading, there is a draft law amending the Water Act, the most important amendments of which concern the regulation of the use of fertilisers in agriculture and the monitoring of compliance with the law, with the aim of reducing surface and groundwater pollution. In particular, studies show that 60 to 80% of the man-made pollution of our surface water comes from agriculture, which is why it is natural that clear rules and unambiguous requirements must be laid down for this very important activity. The draft before you is the basis for three regulations of the Minister of Agriculture. The first concerns the calculation of the nutrient content of manure, the second concerns the determination of the amount of fertiliser to be given to plants and the third concerns specific guidance on the volume of manure storage. More detailed rules will help farmers to behave in such a way that the amount of phosphorus and nitrogen allowed per hectare is not exceeded as a result of fertilisation. The draft also addresses the possibility of taking into account, for example, the amount of manure per land used on average. It had caused confusion in the past and allowed more fertilizer to be used than was promised. Details of the Water Act allow the Environmental Inspectorate to monitor compliance with environmental requirements more effectively than is the case today. In particular, the draft gives inspectors the right to dictate any violation of the Water Act and allows for the use of replacement execution and enforcement. Let me give an example, asking whether such a change could be necessary. This concerns a boil built on water bodies, where the inspection cannot at present implement replacement executions or demand coercion. Here, this change is indeed necessary. In conclusion, all the amendments contained in the draft are intended, firstly, to ensure that the fertiliser is used in an environmentally sound manner and to avoid excessive nutrient uptake into groundwater and surface water, and secondly, to ensure effective control of compliance with the Water Act on a wider scale. The draft also provides for a change in the assessment of the risks associated with flood risks. However, if an area meets the criteria for determining a risk area, this does not mean in the future that it will automatically be considered a risk area, but in any case it will have to be assessed individually whether the designation as a risk area is justified or not. Members of the Riigikogu, I ask you to support the draft law amending the Water Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U130	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. I would like a presentation by Tõnis Kõiv, Member of the Environment Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U131	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Environment discussed draft 391, draft law amending the Water Act at its meeting on 18 March, where Karin Kroon, Head of the Water Department of the Ministry of the Environment, and Hendrik Põldoja, Chief Specialist of the Water Department, participated in the meeting. These officials briefed the Committee on the Environment on the draft. They talked about the requirements for the use of fertilisers to be modified by the draft, the new provisions for the application of the rules and the improvement of the supervisory function of the Environmental Inspectorate. As some of the amendments relate to infringement proceedings initiated by the European Commission, they were discussed in greater detail. In the Committee on the Environment, the draft was reviewed on a point-by-point basis. I'm not going to repeat that in detail here. The standards to be amended were introduced and the members of the Committee on the Environment received answers to their questions. In addition to the draft round of questions and answers, the Commission made the following procedural decisions: first, the draft was appointed as rapporteur for the commission; second, the Riigikogu proposed that the first reading of the draft be placed on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary on Wednesday 10 April 2013, thirdly, it was decided to propose that the Riigikogu plenary session conclude the first reading of the draft 391 and fourthly, it was decided to propose to the Riigikogu board that the draft 391 amendments be submitted by the deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 24 April 2013. All these decisions were taken by consensus in the Committee on the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U132	Thank you. Good waitress, one question for you. Andres Jalak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U133	Thank you. Good colleague! The draft you introduced is very closely linked to agriculture. Was the Commission also working with the Committee on Rural Affairs on this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U134	Thank you for your question. At this stage of the procedure, i.e. in preparation for first reading, the Committee on the Environment did not have any contact with the Committee on Rural Affairs. However, in future proceedings, we will certainly not rule this out, especially given that the debate in the Committee on the Environment had a large part of the committee's questions specifically concerning the agricultural sector, and there were fewer of those issues that concerned the issues or other rules that are being amended by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U135	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 391 amendments on the day following that of 24 April at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the third item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U136	Let's move on to item number four. The first reading of the draft law amending the Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to introduce you to the draft law amending the Copyright Act. But before I go to the presentation of the bill, allow me to take a non-protocol digression and congratulate Matti Päts, the head of the Patent Office, from the speech chair of the Riigikogu, who is not so directly involved in copyright, but also in patent and intellectual property. Today he was 80 years old, and he is vitally running the Patent Office. But now to the bill. Of course, we are convinced that this is a very good draft. The reason for this draft is that Directive 2011/77/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council was adopted on 27 September 2011. This directive amends the time limits for the protection of copyright and certain related rights. The Member States of the European Union are obliged to bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to harmonise the Directive by 1 November 2013. The amendments are intended to improve the situation of performers, given that more and more performers start their careers very young, which is why the 50-year term currently introduced by the Directive does not protect performances throughout the performer's life and the performer's income towards the end of life may decrease. In order to achieve the objective, the term of protection for performance recordings and phonograms is extended by 20 years, i.e. 70 years. The amendment affects both the main performers who receive the royalty for their performance and the bystanders. In order to achieve a balance between the profits of record companies and the social needs of so-called key performers, the amendments to the Directive also include certain additional measures. For example, a "take-or-leave" clause will be included in contracts between performers and phonogram producers, allowing performers whose performances are no longer published after the initial 50-year term of protection, if they so wish, to cancel the contract and decide again on their performance. The Fund shall also be set up for studio musicians who have transferred their rights of recording, reproduction, distribution and publicity to a phonogram producer for a single fee. 20% of the revenue will be allocated to that fund for the use of phonograms that would have lost protection if the deadline had not been extended. The term of contracts with an original maturity of 50 years shall also be extended. The extension of the time limit shall apply to performances and sound recordings for which the initial period of protection of 50 years has not expired as of the date laid down in the Directive and shall not apply to performances which have already become available to the public by that date. The foregoing can be summarised briefly so that this draft concerns performers, in particular musicians and phonogram producers. The deadline for writers is the same as for today's 70 years. So much for an introduction, but there is still a need for clarification. I will bring out three of the most important changes in my opinion. The first important point is the inclusion of § 671 in the Copyright Act. The purpose of this provision is to provide for the right of the performer to receive a premium in order to avoid that the right to reproduction, distribution and distribution of the performance to the public has been transferred to the phonogram producer for a single fee, by the exclusioners, such as studio musicians. The draft provides for a procedure for the annual remuneration of exclusionees from the fund set up by phonogram producers for this purpose. Companies whose turnover for the reproduction, distribution and making available to the public of phonograms whose lawful publication or, in the absence of such publication, the lawful distribution to the public has exceeded EUR 100 in the year preceding the payment of the remuneration shall be subject to the obligation to set up a fund. Another important amendment is the amendment to § 68 of the Copyright Act. It is known that this paragraph regulates the permission to use the performance. By amending the paragraph, we harmonise with the Estonian law directive, we lay down the "take-or-leave" principle, according to which, if certain assumptions exist, the rights relating to the recording of the performance will be returned to the performer as requested by the performer. Thirdly, I would like to mention the amendment to § 74 of the Copyright Act, which is also intended to ensure compliance with the Directive. The point is that if a recording of a performance recorded on a phonogram is lawfully published or lawfully directed to the public within 50 years of the performance, the rights shall be valid for 70 years after such publication or referral to the public, whichever is the earlier. Who might be affected? Let's figure it out. Ott Lepland, Maarja-Liis Beautiful. Eri Klas must have recorded something in 1964, so it also concerns his rights. International examples may point to one of the simplest and most clear - Rolling Stones whose active life on the boards lasts, but the band has been together for over 50 years. With such vivid examples, it is quite appropriate to stop introducing the draft. We certainly support the Commission's proposal that the first reading should be concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U138	Minister, thank you, too. There are no questions. Paul-Eerik Rummo, Member of the Cultural Commission of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U139	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! As a representative of the Committee on Culture, I am very pleased that the Commission has, over a period of time, reached another such draft relating to copyright and its renewal. It is quite clear that the further development of Estonian culture will increasingly depend on the renewal of copyright, which is a continuous but somewhat slow process. It reaches Estonia step by step and creates new opportunities for the development of Estonian culture. Secondly, I very much welcome the fact that annexes 1 and 2 are included in this draft, where we see how hard the authors of the draft have done to coordinate the text of the draft with the relevant associations, such as the Estonian Artists' Association, as well as with other organisations and institutions that have direct contact with the implementation of copyright. The involvement of the organisations and persons concerned has indeed become a good practice. In my opinion, there is no reason to complain about it, as if no one is involved. In particular, the Commission dealt with this draft on 25 March with Mr Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, and with Mr Kristjan Altrof, adviser to the private law department of the Ministry of Justice. We examined the draft quite thoroughly and decided, as the Minister has already mentioned, to propose to the Riigikogu to finish the first reading today, on 10 April (this was a consensus decision), and we believe that the deadline for submitting amendments would be 24 April. Please take this draft with great attention, it is one step forward in promoting the implementation of copyright in Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-10_U140	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 394 amendments. April 24, 5.15 p.m. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 3.10 p.m.
