ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-09_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the 11th working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. First of all, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-09_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching six draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Penal Code and related other laws. Secondly, the draft construction code. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts when dealing with these two draft laws. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Land Tax Act. Sixth, the Law on Credit Institutions and related amendments to other laws. In processing these two draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-09_U3	Thank you. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-09_U4	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of seven members of the Riigikogu, I have an inquiry to report to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. On 18 October this year, the Court, responding to 22 complaints from homeowners, found that the exemption clause of the Land Tax Act was incompatible with the Constitution as it created unequal treatment of homeowners. Although the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, has said here that his homeland exemption does not support and considers the land tax to be a fair tax, it is now up to him to correct the law. That is why we are asking what the Ministry of Finance is doing to resolve the problem, which concerns the residents of terraced houses in particular, as well as those who live in a house with business premises on one floor. We also want to know what amendments to the Land Tax Act are expected from the Ministry of Finance and how much litigation will be expected by the Ministry of Finance in 2014. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-09_U5	Thank you very much. On behalf of the board, I have adopted six draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to process them within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has confirmed the departure of Riigikogu member Andres Herkel as member of the Constitutional Committee and taking up the position of member of the National Defence Committee. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has approved the departure of a member of the Riigikogu from the Environment Committee of Kaja Kreisman and taking up the seat of a member of the Constitutional Committee. The Board of the Riigikogu has registered the departure of Riigikogu member Andres Herkel from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a The following documents were submitted to the Commission for European Union Affairs on 5 and 6 December. Firstly, the updated draft directive on payment services and the draft regulation on interchange fees for card payments. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Monetary Affairs to give an opinion on the drafts. The deadline for the opinion is 16 January 2014 at 4 p.m. Secondly, the European Commission's public consultation documents on the future of the European area of justice. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the documents. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 16 December 2010 at 13 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has appointed draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic by the deadline for submitting documents on the basis of the second reading. 9 December at 5.15 p.m. and Draft State Budget Act 2014 initiated by the Government of the Republic by the deadline for submission of documents on the basis of the third reading. 10 December at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14. Ladies and gentlemen, let us go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is on your desks. I will vote on this week's agenda. Please vote! 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-09_U6	Since there will be no questioning today, please register for an appearance in a free microphone after the hammer hit! Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-09_U7	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. A week ago, I gave a speech from this very remote control and was amazed that the two of our Swedish owners, SEB and Swedbank, want to start charging for handling ordinary people's cash. That speech was very much a response. I thought I'd answer those questions that have come to me in the last few days from this remote unit together. The main question is whether the Riigikogu can do anything to control the arrogance of foreign banks towards Estonian consumers. I want to say to those who wrote to me, called and e-mailed, that I am absolutely opposed to the plans of two Swedish banks, SEB and Swedbank to increase the fee for handling the bank's ordinary customers' cash from next year. The reason for my opposition on this issue is clear: in both banks, people are holding their own money, which is not meant for business or profit. It's their personal money, or private property. I see no reason why a bank would charge people some kind of tax for paying and withdrawing this money. This is particularly true in a situation where neither foreign bank pays a regular depositor almost any percentage of the deposit in that bank, but the banks themselves make fairytale profits. Last time I mentioned that the profit of Danish and Swedish banks operating in Estonia last year was 350 million euros. That money's gonna get out of here. In addition, people in Estonia are made to be forced into a bank, both wage and pension funds must be made compulsory in this foreign bank. There is no other option, because wages are no longer paid in cash. Even when people have called for it, they have not received a satisfactory solution. I ask again how long we will be fattening foreign banks in Estonia. Not only do these banks take out Estonian money, they also take out profits. At the same time, there have been examples in the press that the attitude towards Estonian clients differs from that of the Swedish people who hold their money in these banks. They're a much higher level of communication, much more polite. I have been asked whether I see any solution and whether the Riigikogu could do anything. I have to say, unfortunately, to those people who have sent me letters that there is nothing we can do, because it has not been the custom in this Chamber over the last few decades to discuss the concerns of the opposition or to take account of their proposals. People have also asked why Elisa wants to start charging for online invoices. I hope that maybe the Consumer Protection Board will come in here and that will help. So far, online invoices have not been much taxed. Maybe somehow we're gonna beat this company because there's also a lot of online comments that have turned this behavior into dust. Elisa will be treated in a very derogatory way after this proposal. In summary, it has to be said that Elisa and our banks have only one reason for their mistakes. Banks and other companies have become very greedy, but they are unable to earn the big profits they dream of with their core business, and that is why they have started charging customers for all kinds of small services. The consumer is being sought to be milked by small services, which ultimately generate huge profits, because there are very many consumers and all of them are made coercive, or bank slaves. The banks and companies will succeed because Estonians are relatively quiet rural people, we are not making big noises, maybe only criticising in the kitchen. The bravest send letters to their people's ambassadors and call, but they haven't had much of them either, and I've only been contacted by 23 people. There has been no mass appeal and no one has protested against the politics of Estonian banks or the activities of very greedy companies. We can only hope that Eesti Pank and the Financial Supervision Authority will deal with this issue. Estonia cannot infinitely earn foreign banks and allow profits to be taken out of here and, at the same time, allow our customers to be taxed higher than Swedish customers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-09_U8	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-09_U9	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Internet Watchers, who are now 24! I was moved by Mikhail Stalnukhin's speech from the same remote unit last week, concerning the creation of a children's room in the Riigikogu building. Unfortunately, I wasn't in this room that time. I would like to thank Inara, who quickly responded to this ridiculous speech and said a few words to support the creation of this room. But what I'm saying, Mikhail, is that your speech offended a lot of people. This insulted those who signed this application and the staff of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, who have 200 children and many of whom have children, but the working days of these employees often do not end at five or six o'clock, as most other public officials do, because the work of members of the Riigikogu is such that it also requires working in the evening from time to time and therefore officials work longer. These children and their parents are not responsible for this. I believe that this speech offended a great many other people who believe that reconciling work and family life is an elementary thing today and that the state must deal with these things. We do not want any privileges, it is indeed a matter of principle, and it is about reconciling work and family life. You said, 'I tried to investigate and it turned out that there was no nursery in any state institution in Estonia. No, because everyone chooses a job the terms of which they agree. ' I did some research, too, and I found that the Ministry of Social Affairs, for example, had a room like this, and the Ministry of the Interior had one, and it used to be in the Ministry of Finance. Very many companies that care about their employees have rooms like this. You said everyone would choose a job that he would accept. When I became a member of the Riigikogu in 2007, I didn't have any children, and I was okay with these conditions. But a few years later, children were born. Does this mean that I should give up my job because children are interrupting work? I don't think so. I think that life changes, people change, businesses and institutions can also change. This means that we all need to have more choices. Perhaps 20 to 50 years ago the reconciliation of work and family life was a matter for each family and parent, but today more and more is said in laws and development plans about how important it is that people feel at work and at home. We want a lot of children in our country. We also want as many people as possible in our country to have a job and a high level of employment. To achieve these two things, we need to think more about how parents can raise their children while at the same time working. I don't think it's rocket science. The Riigikogu must set an example for other institutions and the entire state sector. I think that if we could create such a small corner here, it would be a very good example for everyone else. I thank Liisa Pakosta, who prepared this statement and found the people who signed it! It all took time. It took a lot of time that no one has. I sincerely hope that the Board of the Riigikogu will, however, support this idea, despite the fact that you, Mr Stalnukhin, are opposed to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-09_U10	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-09_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, The Supreme Court has today declared invalid restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies, which have been in force for 8 to 9 years. I myself, in my time, initiated a bill to establish them. According to Priit Pikamäe, Chairman of the Supreme Court, restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies are contrary to the Constitution, they restrict the freedom to conduct business and the freedom to operate in the wholesale market, they also restrict the interests of consumers, as new pharmacies cannot be built in places with high demand. I think we'll both get back to the 1990s, when little drugstore-like booths came up every day like mushrooms after rain, and we'll get back to the time when the pharmacies started to grow in sweet places next to each other, in front and behind the town shopping centres, where the consumer can never buy the medicine he needs at the time, because it has not been bought in the pharmacy and it has to be ordered in advance. If it is claimed that we restrict and restrict the freedom to conduct a business, then, good founders of pharmacies, there are now so many places in Estonia, about 50 places where there are family doctors, but there is no pharmacy anymore. You could start a pharmacy there, but you won't because you won't be rich there. However, even the few drugstores in the country that still exist and do not belong to powerful chains, but still exist at the request of the municipality or the family doctor, because people need medical medicine. We think that these places will now be drained from the professional workforce, educated pharmacists and pharmacists, because these specialists are already few. Over the years, how many times has this limit been lifted? The Estonian Competition Authority, the National Audit Office, the Chancellor of Justice or the Government have wanted to do so. Immediately after the restrictions came into force, the businessmen's struggle against them began. The question reached the Supreme Court at the time, but at that time the Supreme Court said that the restriction was legal, and now he claimed exactly the opposite. As we know, today the Supreme Court granted the application of Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, who considers the restrictions on establishment to be contrary to the Constitution. However, I would like to remind you that, at the time when the restrictions were imposed, Indrek Teder, as a sworn advocate, was a champion of the establishment of the restrictions. Then he did not see a contradiction with the Constitution or a restriction on the freedom to conduct a business. On the basis of the judgments of the Supreme Court and also of the European Court of Justice, it can be concluded that the protection of public health is a fundamental right which can be seriously undermined by excessive competition as it impairs access to medicines in the countryside and the quality of service in the city. That's what it was built on today when it was cremated. In Europe, restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies are a common phenomenon, and these restrictions apply in many countries. Here are some examples: Austria, Belgium, Croatia, France, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Finland, Poland, Denmark, Cyprus, Germany. Some countries have licence restrictions. Also where these restrictions were removed in the meantime, such as in Hungary and Sweden, they were later re-established. So we are based on outdated views. We are now taking down the restrictions, but our country is still not going to support the land pharmacies in any way. The country doesn't care if the land pharmacies exist or not. After all, we take a pharmacist as an ordinary shopper, we do not consider a pharmacist to be a health worker, in contrast, I would stress that, from all the other European countries. Is the educational pharmacist, medical scientist, health worker or shopper of the University of Tartu? The state of Estonia says it's a shopper. You don't have to support shops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-09_U12	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-09_U13	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to talk about another subject today, but apart from Mr Stranger's speech, I have nothing left but to come back to my own speech last week. For many years, I have worked as a teacher, and for many years, I have led a council. I know perfectly well that not everyone listens to you when you talk, not everyone gets it the first time, so I repeat my thoughts. I'm not a chauvinist or a child hater, as they're trying to show. I love women and I love children. I love not only the women who work here within the walls of the Riigikogu, but also those who work elsewhere. There are quite a number of jobs where women have to work at night, sometimes spending whole nights at work. Look at the hospitals. Who's out there working night and night? Nurses. Look at the stores that work till 11:00 a.m. or all night. Who's sitting in the register? Still a woman. These women do not have the legal possibility to require that, if necessary, they take the child to work with them. There are also occupations that do not need to work regularly at night or night, but that need arises in an emergency. Don't women work in our rescue centers? Doesn't it sometimes happen that snow deals shut down the road and all the rescue personnel stay in business that they didn't intend to do at all? Some of them are women and they have children. It's weird. I agree that everywhere in Estonia, a child must have the right to be with his or her mother. But who will legitimise such an opportunity if not the Riigikogu? If you, ladies and gentlemen, would do something good for the whole people if Mr Pakosta and those who signed the statement presented a bill that would provide that there would be a nursery in the building not only of the Riigikogu, but also more than 200 local government councils, so that if the members of the parliament or council were to work for the night, the children would be there, I would sign this bill and support it with two hands. If you put forward a bill for this, you will have the opportunity, it is given to you by the Constitution, to have a children's room in each factory, so that women working at the conveyors at night can use it, if the child, for example, is a little sick, I would support it momentarily. What do you suggest? You will not solve the problem of all mothers; you will only try to solve this problem here in the Riigikogu, instead of looking at what kind of money it could be done locally. You know that when a nursery is made here, it is done for taxpayers' money, that money comes from the Riigikogu budget, it does not fall from the sky. It's very good to be in charge like this, I'd say, foreign money, taxpayers' money. Before you start criticizing anyone, please hear him out! I asked about children's rooms from the representatives of the National Audit Office who have visited all the state institutions in Estonia. Their definite answer was that there were no children's rooms. You want to set a precedent. You're doing this for yourself, not the people. Start at the other end, and I'll be the first one to help you. The children's room could be in any company and establishment, only in the last order in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-09_U14	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the hearing. Closure of the sitting at 3.27 p.m.
