ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the third working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, Mr Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union has a draft decision of the Riigikogu to pass on. Our group proposes to change the composition of the Special Committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act. There is now Erki Arrow from our group. However, he has begun to carry out other tasks of great responsibility. We want to alleviate his burden a little bit and put Liisa-Ly Pakosta on behalf of this special committee on behalf of our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U4	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, 16 A member of the Social Democratic Party Group will report an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The inquiry concerns the prudent management of the shares owned by the State of AS Estonian Air. Between 2011 and 2012, the Government of the Republic allocated a total of EUR 30 million to implement the company's new strategy. The fleet was renewed, the range of destinations expanded and the timetables tightened. Despite everything, the airline has been loss-making since 2006, which has increased significantly in recent years. The losses in 2011 were EUR 17,3 million. In the first nine months of last year, the losses exceeded EUR 20 million, and they certainly increased in the last months of last year. We have asked the Prime Minister seven questions that I will read to you about. Does the Prime Minister, as Head of Government, also see the entire government guilty of the airline's difficult economic situation, or does he feel that all responsibility falls to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts? Did the company's management play a role in its losses in recent years? If so, what part was it? Does the Prime Minister not think that this was an act of malicious harm to the company, in which the members of the board of directors should bear personal responsibility under the Commercial Code? What is the government's plan to ensure that the air connections that are important to Estonia are maintained, and does the Estonian airline play a role in this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U5	Please, Mr Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the removal of a member of the Stabilisation Reserve Board and the appointment of a new member. The draft decision also contains an explanatory statement on what the Stabilisation Reserve is and what the Council's powers and tasks are. Pursuant to § 373 of the State Budget Act, the Riigikogu appoints four members of the Stabilisation Reserve Board for a period of five years by decision initiated by the Monetary Commission. Members appointed by the Riigikogu may not be part of the government. As Taavi Rõivas was appointed Minister of Social Affairs on 10 December, we have prepared a draft decision to recall Taavi Rõivas as a member of the Stabilisation Reserve Board and to appoint Aivar Sõerd as a member of the Stabilisation Reserve Board. According to § 117 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, this draft is discussed at a single reading and no amendments are tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted two draft decisions and one inquiry. If the draft decisions comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to grant them to the proceedings within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. Now, one message. I have forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U8	We have only one item on the agenda today, as a key national issue, the debate on the inclusion of people with special needs in the labour market. I will show you how this debate is taking place. According to § 153 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, on the proposal of the Social Affairs Committee, the Management Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the following procedure for discussing the inclusion of people with special needs in the labour market. First of all, Pille Liimali, member of the Board of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, is a presentation that lasts up to 20 minutes. The following questions and answers, which also last up to 20 minutes. The second report is from Indrek Ülper, a member of the Management Board of NGO Abikäi, which lasts up to 20 minutes. The following questions and answers, which also last up to 20 minutes. The third report is from the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Margus Tsahkna. The presentation lasts up to 20 minutes, including questions and answers, for up to 20 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, can I have your attention now? A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened as usual. The speeches may be made by members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups, but at the request of the Social Affairs Committee, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak with the representatives of the political groups, as we have a tradition. The debate will run until the end of the Thursday session, but the Committee on Social Affairs has proposed to extend the time of the sitting, if necessary, until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin the debate on a key national issue. Please report to Pille Liimali, member of the board of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, thank you for the opportunity to share with you here the experience of the Unemployment Insurance Fund in helping disabled people to work. For starters, let me introduce you to three people. Siim is 28 years old. He is a successful entrepreneur in a small town in Estonia. Through the Unemployment Insurance Fund, he received financial training and entrepreneurial training, then wrote a very good business plan and received support from us to start his own business. The company created in autumn is doing so well today that Siim can give work to another person. Siim is completely paralyzed as a result of an accident, with only his fingers moving. Nikolai is a 47-year-old woodworker with golden hands. He has previously worked in Estonia's major furniture industries; he is currently working in a small timber industry. True, at the first attempt he failed to get a job there, but he was remembered by the employer during the interview, and as soon as the vacancy arose, the employer offered him a direct offer to work. Nikolai does not speak Estonian; he does not hear or know sign language very well. By writing paper in Russian, the employer and all other people communicate with him. Roman was our client and, with our help, he got to work for a car supply company. When the crisis came, his job was laid off, but as soon as the company's workforce increased again, Roman was among those who were immediately recalled. The employer considers him to be a very conscientious and hardworking person. His trumpion is that since he spends his leisure time studying various programming languages and knows a computer well, he also helps colleagues in this field. Roman left university studies for mental health problems. This is also why he did not do the best work at first and only a tenth of his demands were made. However, the employer was ready to wait. Roman's performance improved very soon, and the employer is now very pleased with him. These stories about the clients of the unemployment fund confirm that people with disabilities want and are able to work and are good employees. They have the skills, experience and knowledge that employers very much need and value. I think people here can tell stories like this. Of course, I would like to see more of these stories. The reality is that although just over a third of people who have lost their job capacity are currently working in Estonia, those who are completely excluded from the labour market, who are not working or looking for a job, maybe half of them are over 40,000 people. Here too, this picture shows very vividly the gap between people with disabilities and all other people of working age in terms of employment prospects. While two thirds of people of working age are occupied, only just one third of people with long-term illness and disability. It is also noteworthy that this gap has been quite the same, regardless of whether there have been good or bad times in the economy. Therefore, we cannot be sure that this picture will change in itself, for the sole reason that labour shortages should arise and worsen. However, this gap should be reduced for a number of rational reasons, both social and economic. Here's just two. A job allows a person to cope economically and have a better life than a person has to live out of benefits. But work also means much more than just money, it means that people have the opportunity to be involved, to exercise themselves, to feel necessary. However, in a situation where population declines and the number of people of working age decreases, society cannot afford to have such a large proportion of people away from the labour market. What are the current opportunities for the unemployment fund to reduce this gap? In this picture, you can see the unemployment fund's overall labour market service package, which can also be used by people with disabilities as needed. I dare say that the range of services is very diverse, from labour market training and internship to psychological or addictive counselling and quite individual solutions. It is individual solutions that we have been able to support the participation of disabled people in training and traineeships, as well as their entry into employment. This will allow us, for example, to organise the service of a sign language interpreter, to compensate the disabled person, if necessary, for the cost of hiring a personal attendant and assistant, and to arrange transport if public transport cannot be used because of the disability. In addition, we have separate services for people with disabilities and long-term illness if disability or illness prevents them from working or working. I would stress that we have these opportunities not only for people who are unemployed but also for those who are already working but whose work may be at risk because of the deterioration of their disability or because of the deterioration of their health. You may ask how many disabled people use these opportunities and whether they will benefit from them at all. If we look at our work results last year, we will see that we have provided a wide range of labour market services to disabled people on almost 5,000 occasions. Our disabled clients most needed labour market training and career guidance, as well as knowledge and skills where and how to look for work at all, and motivational training. Our services, as I said, are diverse, they have grown out of life itself. The reasons why people do not find work are very different and individual, even for people with disabilities. A disability may be an obstacle, but failure to get a job may not be directly related to a person's disability or condition. What else have we done? Our customer services are almost all accessible to people with reduced mobility. We work with the disability organisation to make information about our services available to people with visual or hearing impairments as well as to people with learning difficulties. For two years, we have been continuously training our staff to become customer service advisors, to be people who can see the skills and abilities of each person, to notice the obstacles these people have in getting a job, and to offer solutions that will help them to work or at least to get closer to it. Thanks to close cooperation with employers, the share of job offers offered by the unemployment fund in all job offers has increased steadily in recent years. We have also better reached people with disabilities through close, substantial cooperation with local authorities, which are increasingly among our cooperation partners. I see a huge and perhaps not fully exploited opportunity in cooperation with organisations such as the Helping Hand, whose representative is speaking here today, and with other organisations of the disabled. They are closer to people with disabilities and with their help we can encourage people with disabilities to be more active in finding work and exploiting the opportunities we offer. What is it, however, that the unemployment fund cannot do now or where our opportunities are lacking? The reasons why there are as few people with disabilities on the labour market as there are are, of course, different since people with disabilities have not always had equal opportunities to receive good education with everyone else. The opportunities for the education of people with disabilities have widened considerably in recent years, but when we talk about the acquisition of professional skills and special education, due to the lack of many support services, these opportunities are still limited. We have developed a wide range of rehabilitation services and programmes within the framework of projects. However, the fact is that when we talk about rehabilitation for people with disabilities of working age, three or four million euros per year have been earmarked for this. Sadly, much of this also takes to prepare rehabilitation plans that include all the services that a person does not actually have access to. The same is true of personal aids that do not meet the needs. Yet, it is often a personal tool and its quality that determines whether a person can live an active life and start working. I'll give you one, maybe a little absurd, example of an unemployment fund internship. On one occasion, the unemployment fund had to go so far as to buy a new prosthetic leg for a good bulldozer driver. That's for the simple reason that the foot prosthetic that he had received from the care facilities was good enough to get home and go shopping, but if you did the bulldozer job, climb into the machine, jump down from there, do the day-to-day work, that prosthetic would have worn through very quickly, but there wouldn't have been any hope for a new foot prosthetic care in two or three years' time. Social services are essential so that people with disabilities can even start looking for work and thinking about going to work. A person with reduced mobility does not think to look for a job if he or she does not even get out of his or her home because he or she does not have a home adaptation service, there is no social transport or, for example, a personal helper to support him or her. People with hearing disabilities cannot start looking for work, communicate with the unemployment fund, even if they are unable to use the help of a sign language interpreter. When you take up the Social Welfare Act, you will see that there is a very long list of services: personal helper, sponsor, supported work, sign language interpreter, etc. Unfortunately, these services are only available on paper or are provided on a project basis and with a finger. The current system of incapacity for work and pensions and benefits are also not conducive to activity. At the unemployment fund, we often have to think about how to motivate the person who comes to us to look for a job with the idea that he or she needs health insurance. Health insurance is required to go to a doctor and fill out the necessary papers to determine incapacity for work. When incapacity for work and pension are granted, this person leaves our sight and it is very difficult to motivate him to continue looking for a job. Most of all, however, I think there is a lack of awareness and misconception that prevents people with disabilities from working. It is still common to think that people with disabilities are unable to work or, if they work, that their work is certainly not the same or the same as that of other people. Employers and their attitudes certainly have a major role to play. The employers I have met and talked about people with disabilities do not, in principle, oppose the employment of people with disabilities. For the most part, they have not just thought about this possibility. Those who had thought, in fact, did not expect, as I understood, to be paid so much for it. Rather, they had a question of where they would find people with disabilities in the first place and receive practical help and advice regarding their recruitment and working arrangements. Employers who have had a positive experience in recruiting disabled people say that disabled people are just as productive and reliable workers as others. They are very motivated to work because work gives them a tangible increase in independence and a better income. They are also very creative because they are used to solving various problems in their lives in a resourceful way. Contrary to popular opinion, people with disabilities are much less ill and suffer fewer accidents at work. In fact, employing a disabled person does not cost the employer much. It can be said that only half of the cases need to be adapted to work, and half of these, in turn, do not cost a cent, just need fresh eyes and creative ideas. Changing employers' attitudes is important, but it is not enough. I think that the attitude and attitudes of the disabled job seekers themselves, the attitude of professionals, the attitude of everyone in society must change. We need to ask ourselves where we are in society with our own thinking when dealing with this issue. Do we still believe that disabled people can only do certain jobs, that the best way for all visually impaired people is to work as a blind masseuse, that we must reserve jobs for disabled people in the public sector or in a certain number of private sectors? Or are we thinking that a disabled person, like any other person, should have the opportunity to do the work that his heart calls for, what he likes, what he has the skills and knowledge for? Each person is unique and valuable. If we notice a person and highlight his qualities, his skills, his values, rather than point to trees and differences, then in fact we have already, I think, broken down quite several good meters of this wall that currently keeps disabled people out of the job search and the labour market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pille Liima. Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U11	Thank you. Let me begin by thanking you for an interesting presentation. You have pointed out that one of the major problems with the inclusion of people with disabilities in the labour market is the lack of awareness, both in error and prejudice. Has it also occurred in your day-to-day work that one major problem is access to jobs, especially that streets are not always accessible in wheelchairs and not all buildings are accessible in wheelchairs? Public transport also does not always meet these requirements. How big is this problem, and has it been highlighted?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U12	This is a problem, although it can be said that when we look around, we see that the accessibility of many places, for example for people with reduced mobility, has improved. However, it is precisely public transport that has many reasons for restricting the choices of disabled people in the labour market. If a person is prevented from using a job, the unemployment fund can help people who are already working, as well as those who are still without work. We can then reimburse the costs of adjustments. This option has been used, but it could, of course, be used even more actively.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U13	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I also thank you for your presentation. I have a very specific question. I have received information from the Nordic-Estonian Association of the Blind through the Tallinn Enterprise Board. I quote: 'Cooperation with the Unemployment Insurance Fund has been hindered because the unemployment fund does not take into account the work equipment needed to adapt the job, such as a scanner, a computer with a speech or magnification programme. The special programmes are ready to be supported, but the machine with which the programmes work should be provided by the employer himself. The objection is that these are common tools that the employer must have. How, though, can such expensive tools be owned by an organisation working on a voluntary or part-time basis? ' Please, how do you comment on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U15	Thank you. We're about to negotiate this problem with the union. Our specialists have met them and will meet them again. Obviously, the question here is that the unemployment fund is able to offer the kind of aid that is needed due to disability. These specially designed magnification devices for visually impaired people, which you mentioned, we will compensate, but really, we will not compensate for the purchase of a normal computer. But I believe that we will find a suitable and correct solution here, in cooperation with the association.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U16	Please, my colleague, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U17	Thank you. Dear waitress, Have you thought about reducing employers' prejudices and fears when recruiting disabled people by providing one of the services that the unemployment fund could provide, for example, video-CV? On paper, you may not be able to highlight human skills so well, but it is possible with video-CV. This would save employers time and make it easier for people to send CVs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U18	Thank you! This is a very good and concrete proposal. We've considered it. If we develop our self-service portal, it's one of the options we're thinking about. We have such an opportunity that either our advisor or a volunteer will accompany the disabled person for a job interview and help mediate communication with the employer. This has had a very positive impact.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U19	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U20	Thank you. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your brief presentation. Just because you are standing before us in this Chamber of Riigikogu sittings does not, in my opinion, just mean that you report what the unemployment fund has done, but you can take this opportunity to advise the legislator on what else we can do. Your last slide spoke of problems that prevent people with disabilities from getting a job and that are not only dependent on the unemployment fund. I have noted the last point that disability pensions and social benefits do not encourage activity. I've been in contact with working disabled people myself. Their concern has also been that if they are at a maximum load in terms of their own abilities, they will still be treated differently when calculating their pension. If they ever reach retirement age, their pension is not what it would be if they had no disability. Has the unemployment fund been exposed to this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U21	Rather, the unemployment fund has been exposed to the fact that, even if a person actually has the capacity to work only partially, he or she does not have to show activity on his or her own. We don't expect him to find a job that he can do. It seems to me that this system carries a message that if you are assigned a percentage of disability, no matter how small or large it is, you are unable to work. The system emphasizes what you can no longer do, nor offers opportunities that you can still do and how you can help yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U22	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you so much for coming here and giving us a good overview! I come to the issue of people with special needs. Of course, those you brought out here are perhaps the most visible to us in normal practice. But there are also people with medium and severe disabilities, including mentally disabled people, who are even less involved in working life. That's why I have a question. When we look at the education system, we see that we have found these people and brought them to school. They have been brought to education, even care programs. At the same time, when they turn 17, i.e. they have completed their extra year, they are dealt with very little, apart from some youth homes. We have very few jobs supported. Is it possible for the unemployment fund, together with European money, to take the next step?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U24	The Unemployment Insurance Fund considers it its primary task to help people with disabilities into the open labour market. But I fully agree with you that there are people with disabilities who, before reaching the open labour market, need the possibility of supported work or even protected work. There are also people with disabilities who have the best chance of inclusion in the labour market, whether working in a day or operating centre. We have thought that this role could be played by, and why not, with the support of the Structural Funds, welfare and local authorities, who could help to increase these opportunities. At present, the unemployment fund is in such a situation that places where customers who are not ready, even with the help of a support person, can be assigned to the open labour market can be counted on the fingers of one hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U25	Please, Mr Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U26	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for a good report. The question is similar to the previous one, but maybe unprofessional. I looked at your statistics and I was surprised to see that your statistics started with people 15 years old. In the case of young people aged 15 years without special needs, we focus on education and not on employment. Where were they in your tables, the non-staff segment? Shouldn't there also be more emphasis on education on your side than on employment, perhaps also on statistics, especially on younger people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U27	These indicators, which reflect the number of inactive people among those who have lost their capacity to work, do not include learners, as learning is considered to be an active activity. Among them are people who do not learn, work or seek employment. If you ask them if they are looking for a job and if they are ready to start working if there is a suitable job, they will say no, they have not thought about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U28	Please, colleague Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U29	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for your very good and comprehensive presentation. My question is from the point of view of the unemployment fund. What are the resources and capacities of the unemployment fund itself to help people with special needs find work? Do you also have specialists who only deal with jobseekers with special needs, or is it in general terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U30	Case managers are involved in supporting job search for disabled people at the unemployment fund. We have our clients' advice structured on two levels: job mediation consultants and case managers. Case managers are those with fewer customers, but these clients or their job search are more difficult. Their clients include people with disabilities. We do not have counselors for disabled people or specialists for helping them to work, but we do have case managers who have the knowledge and skills to deal with disabled people as well. I have learned that there is a general lack of knowledge about technical tools and smart solutions in Estonia. This is definitely a developmental place.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U31	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U32	Thank you. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your very good presentation. My question is about rehabilitation services and plans. Very many people have approached members of the Riigikogu. Disabled people are frustrated that much of the money allocated to rehabilitation services goes to the preparation of plans. Have you been working with doctors, and I don't know who else, perhaps in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, done some sort of analysis on how it would be possible to make sure that there wouldn't be so much money for planning and more money for services, so that people would get more services? Is there any way to standardise it? After all, services are similar for certain disabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U33	This really doesn't belong to the unemployment fund. We have indeed proposed that the principles of financing rehabilitation services should be reviewed. As far as we understand, this lack of rehabilitation money is divided between a pretty large number of rehabilitation institutions, which means that money moves through institutions, not with a human being. An important change would be if this money were to move with the person and the plan was not a matter of itself, but rather a part of the service delivery process. The unemployment fund also prepares individual job-seeking plans to help its clients to work, but this is not a separate service, but is part of helping people to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U34	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U35	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, thank you for your meaningful presentation. The Estonian labour market lacks working hands. Can you tell me how many people with disabilities are those who could potentially be involved in the Estonian labour market? How can this be encouraged and made attractive to businesses to address these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U36	That's a good question. In fact, we do not know very well what the situation is for all those people away from the labour market and what is preventing them from taking up work. Yes, we know what percentage of loss of employment is assigned to them, we know what condition or diagnosis there are among them more or less. But there's been a lot of criticism of this system. In fact, we do not know quite well how many people with disabilities are ready to work, for example, and how many people who need very extensive rehabilitation services before they are even ready to look for work. One simple thing that would make it more attractive for employers to hire people with disabilities is to make all the information available to employers in a more comprehensive and systematic way about the opportunities already available to support the employment of disabled people. You can start with this. Another thing our employees have brought out. Many disabled people would like to go to work, but at least for the time being part-time. However, hiring a part-time employee is too expensive for the employer. If there were any exceptions or concessions available here, people with disabilities would probably look around the labour market more boldly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U37	Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You mentioned among the problems that access to secondary and special education is still a problem for people with special needs. Personally, in the last 16 years, I have been following these processes in Saare County, where many investments have been made to make it easier for young people and children with special needs to study in vocational schools and upper secondary schools. These are very positive developments. Yesterday, we started working on a draft law for a vocational training institution. Do you also see the possibility for the unemployment fund to intervene specifically in legislation to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U39	As regards the acquisition of professional skills, these are the examples of Saaremaa that you have brought, very good, but in many regions these support services are still lacking. Starting with the fact that educational institutions are not always accessible and ending with the fact that people with disabilities may need either sign language interpreter services, which are currently very poorly available in Estonia, or other support services due to disability. I am indebted to the answer in the light of the draft law on vocational training institutions, but we will look at it in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U40	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your thorough review. Do you have any information on how many entrepreneurs and businesses or institutions who were willing to employ people with special needs have received help from the unemployment fund to adjust the job? How many times have you been approached?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U42	In fact, as I said in my report, there is little need to adapt this physical environment. They think it's gonna take a lot. When they say 'disabled person', the person who moves in a wheelchair comes to mind. That's how I get the feeling that if I hire someone like that, you're gonna have to rebuild the whole house. But most of the time, that's not the case. There are adjustments, but there are a couple or three of them a year. In most cases, employers who are already employed by a disabled person have made use of this option, and they have done so that they can continue to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U43	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, good waitress, for an interesting presentation. We have talked a lot about the private sector today. I am asking about the public sector in Estonia. What do you think is the public sector's ability to create jobs for people with disabilities? What is the share of the public sector here? For decades, I have had a good experience with a Scottish emergency centre, where nearly half of the people working behind remote control, display, and phones were visible with physical disabilities. They did a very good job, and everyone was happy. They took a very active part in the everyday life of society, in solving problems, they felt very important, and all the conditions for their work were created. It was a public sector. What is the situation in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U45	I think there are jobs in the public sector where disabled people would like to work, and they would be good workers. I can speak specifically on behalf of the unemployment fund right now. We also have people with disabilities at work and partly those who have lost their ability to work, but we have not hired them because they have a disability or a partial loss of their ability to work, but because they have the skills that we really need. I do not think it right to say personally that the public sector should create employment opportunities specifically for people with disabilities. I think that if a disabled person has the skills that can be used in the public sector and if he wants to use them there, the public sector could be open to their recruitment and this could be recognised. However, if, in one sector or another, jobs specifically aimed at people with disabilities are created solely for the purpose of creating these jobs, there are some negative side effects.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U46	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for answering questions is over. Thank you, Pille Liima, for your presentation and your answer to questions! I would like to ask Indrek Ülper, a member of the board of MTÜ Abikäi, to waitress next!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U47	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu and guests. I'm Indrek Ülper, founding member of NGO Abidus. The main activities of NGO Helphand are to find jobs for people with special needs and for the long-term unemployed and to mediate them into the labour market. Three years ago, the NGO became a service provider primarily for companies and people with special needs of the employer. We were looking for clients to subcontract various jobs: telephone consultants' work, telephone sales, data entry, also simpler handicrafts, stickers, packing. There have been a lot of work that has gone through with us. We accepted everything that proved to be affordable for the people we work for. Over the course of their careers, the help hand has provided training to encourage reintegration into the labour market for more than 120 long-term unemployed people and people with special needs. Almost always we have also been able to offer traineeships to these people in training, usually in our own premises. Jobs have been the same again: telephone vendor, data entry, etc. Up to now, 75% of all people who have received training and training from us have been permanently employed after training. The Help Hand now employs about 50 people. This number changes every day, even during the day. But in general, we have created employment opportunities for 50 people. In 2010, we started with four people and the turnover was non-existent. We are now earning EUR 25000 per month. This is what we earn by doing business; it does not take into account various projects or other funding. We started working on this issue because there are a lot of people living in Estonia, about 90,000 people who have been assigned partial or total incapacity for work. According to our data, 33000 of them are working, which is actually very good. As far as we know, 9800 more people are looking for jobs on various channels. These include those who have approached us or the unemployment fund, as well as elsewhere, the chambers of the disabled and the various groups that deal with these people. Here you can bring a wide range of figures. For example, if the 9800 people who are actively looking for work find a job (I believe it can be implemented), even if they were working on a minimum wage, EUR 3 million would generate additional income for the country in the form of income tax alone, because it is known that a person who is unable to work has a social tax exemption from the minimum wage. There are 46600 people with special needs who are not actively looking for work. That doesn't mean they don't want to go to work if they get the chance. If they had sufficient motivation and if they could see that the situation in society and around them is changing for the better, then certainly a large proportion of those who are able to work to some extent, of course, are among those who are not able to work and are probably never able to work, would go to work and the state would receive an additional income of EUR 13 million per year. This has been calculated on the basis that the minimum wage is EUR 290, as it was in 2012, which means that it could be even higher. This year, 2013, Besides creating jobs, Abikä will focus mainly on mediating people with special needs outside our own organisation. We've done this before, but chaoticly. We have not done this by any method, as we do now, when we meet at least two entrepreneurs every day. The result is that at least one entrepreneur is willing to recruit people. There are companies that do this out of a sense of mission. Just a few days ago, we had a meeting with a large company in Estonia, a completely Estonian company, where two people were willing to hire. We have cooperation with the unemployment fund in this regard that the unemployment fund provides a support person. This company employs people with very severe disabilities. If this is done, it will be a good example for other employers as well. Of course, not everyone can do it or afford it. But these people may even be better workers, for often a person with special needs can turn his or her disability to his or her own advantage. People generally don't like routines, they don't like to make one move all day. But those who have been to the day - care center have seen that people with certain mental disabilities make exactly one move all day long, doing so for eight hours in a row. It can easily be turned in their favor if they are able to perform linework at the factory or whatever work they do throughout the day to make the same move. It's more of an advantage. There are many such options where trees can be turned into an advantage. Another example. A large programming company deliberately sought out autistics. Certain types of autistics see programming as a single picture, as a whole. If the mistake is looking for a regular person, he'll go through the line and take it for hours, but he'll grab it all in ten seconds, and he'll find it right away. They were just a couple of examples. We started to mediate these people into the labour market in cooperation with the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and the Goodeo Foundation, and this particular project is funded by the Foundation of Civil Society. The project lasts one year. If we saw in the project that we would find a job for a hundred people, the project has now lasted 31 days, and we have already met that goal. We still have 11 months left, and if this goes well, we will definitely multiply the number that we set out to do. That's good. We were also not prepared to have such a positive attitude towards entrepreneurs. There are also negative examples. One company turned us down, explaining why they wanted to hire nice people. They didn't accept our offer. But there has been only one such example in that time. I don't think it's a general trend. This was not an Estonian company. Our own people are quite tolerant. Our team in the Help Hand is only a three-member. Three years of experience shows that if we do not advertise, at least ten people a week will approach us for help. If our activity somehow falls into the media's interest, this number will be tenfold or even more turnips. For example, we are currently in a media campaign, and at least 50 people turn to us every day. We already have 700 more jobseekers. These are people who will definitely want to work. Of course, we also send them to the unemployment fund. Our wish is for people to be listed in the unemployment fund, as it will be much easier to get help if necessary and all the services provided by the unemployment fund. There's quite a few of them, and they're quite efficient. There are also shortcomings, but we are discussing them. This is likely to improve further. At the same time, we have been working in this area for three years and we have discovered at meetings that employers are still afraid and prejudiced. So this job pays off. If we go to a company and it is obvious that a decent barrier is ahead of us to hire someone with special needs, then after an hour's meeting, things will change. We always give many examples, I have also given a personal example. I've had experience years ago when I had to prove very much that I could do the job. After a few years, I was the same company manager. So it's actually possible if you try. Make the employer believe that it is not the case that people with special needs cannot cope. A video-CV was mentioned here earlier. I think it's a very good thing. If a person can already show in the video that he is really able to do the job when applying for a job, why not, then the employer's interest is also greater. Speaking of barriers and prejudices, employers feel that the productivity of people with special needs is very low. In fact, our experience shows that the motivation of people with special needs for work is high and the working standards are very high. When they find a job that they can do, their productivity does not fall under the control of others. We have very good examples of it ourselves. In our experience, the long-term unemployed are a much harder contingent than those with special needs. The causes of long-term unemployment vary widely. The barriers resulting from the prejudice can only be broken by consistent interaction, by assessing and considering the individual needs and opportunities of the employer and the employee. This is what we do and the unemployment fund does. It has to be dealt with, and most of the time it pays off. As I said, at least one of the two meetings will produce results. Sometimes we go to two companies during the day, and by the same day's evening, the first employee is mediated. We have had occasions when we went to the employer in the morning, had a worker by the evening of the same day, and the next day we started working on the basis of a contract. In the course of this project, we follow two principles in our hands. First of all, we intend to mediate into the labour market only those people with special needs who have approached us with a desire to find a job. We are not going to look for these people on our own, we are not going to go to chambers or to different institutions. However, we mediate people who want to go to work themselves. We'll always have our first conversations with them ourselves. If we need either motivational training or a little work experience, we will also offer this opportunity to all people within this project. We also dispel the fears of jobseekers. Often they have a great deal of fear, fear of how the employer might treat them, fear of direct talk that comes but very, very rarely. When these fears are scattered, they start looking for work. It is often the case that when one or two people get a job at a service house, it motivates others too. This work needs to be done systematically so that, in the end, the whole target group will certainly look for a job. Together with this project, we have developed a sign for employers who are tolerant and hire people with special needs. This is the mark of a friendly employer of a person with special needs, which symbolizes tolerance, care and support for recruiting, maintaining and improving the quality of life of a person with special needs. This mark is the same as in other countries. Here is an example from Britain, where every retail chain and a very - very large number of institutions, including public authorities, have 'Positive about disabled people' stickers. Also digitally, they show it on their accounts or anywhere. We have the sign 'Work Together'. This shows the employer's tolerance and care. At the same time, it urges people with special needs to go boldly and ask their employer for a job. If a person with a special need may not have the courage to do so now, he should certainly dare to contact this company if he sees this sign. It is, of course, intended for the recognition of businesses. Such recognition is becoming increasingly important. If that wasn't the case before, now it's important to some people. We have been approached by several dozen companies to obtain this identification mark. Companies that are open to inclusion in the labour market can apply for a badge, and certainly those who, when an accident occurs to an employee, do their utmost to keep the person in employment despite partial incapacity for work. Many social groups benefit from our activities. In particular, people with disabilities who do not currently have work, families of disabled people and their relatives, who want to work, as their burden on caring for and sustaining disabled people is reduced, which is one of the most important issues, as has been shown by our contacts with families. The success stories of people with disabilities also increase the self-confidence and motivation of their fate mates, and the inactive disabled also want to improve their economic and emotional well-being by working. Of course, the state will benefit because, in the long term, there will be more taxpayers. The obligation of local authorities to support disabled people is also reduced. In my opinion, society as a whole is the main beneficiary, as awareness and tolerance towards people with special needs increases, which in turn helps to reduce intolerance and stratification in society. Our big mission is for Estonia to become a country, even the first such country in the world, where every person with special needs has the opportunity to work if he or she so wishes. I also have some suggestions that actually went through here before. The public sector could set an example and employ more people with special needs. There could also be some nuance in the law that if a person states in the CV that he or she has a disability, it should not be the CV that he or she should be excluded, but rather the obligation to invite that person to a job interview. Some companies in Estonia already do so, they will definitely invite the person whose CV has a disability. More attention could also be paid to disability organisations in public procurement. I cannot say, of course, that they should be in the preferred situation. The help hand, for example, has been involved repeatedly in public procurement, but although we have met the criteria and the price we have offered has been more favourable, we have not, for some reason, ever won these procurements. We haven't really looked into why we haven't won either. Here again, for example, Britain, where there is a company such as Remploy. It's a state-owned company that deals with the employment of people with special needs. He's the one who inspired me to create the Helper's Hand. In the past, all British police and military uniforms sewed people with special needs. This is no longer the case now, because these people have been employed in the public sector. But it also concerns other public procurements. For example, all public buildings windows and doors that need to be replaced are always ordered in particular from Remloy. If they can't handle the volume of the order, then the order will go to someone else. Thirdly, I would like to point out that many non-profit organisations are more social enterprises than non-profit organisations. We, too, do not act so much in the form of a classic non-profit organisation that applies for and works with funds, but we are also employers and entrepreneurs, that is, we are a social enterprise. At present, however, there are no measures in KredEx or EAS to help invest in social entrepreneurship. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U48	Thank you very much, Mr. Ülper, for your presentation. You have questions. Starts with my colleague, Siim Kabrits.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U49	Thank you. Thank you for your good presentation. First of all, I wish you every success in what is very necessary and important to the country. My question concerns the last part of your speech. You have pointed out that many people with special needs are left behind the poor access to credit for the start or expansion of economic activity. If the state in KredEx or the MES created such a special measure, how many enterprising people could be able to create jobs or employ people with special needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U50	I cannot say the number, but there are certainly enough to enable this measure to be used effectively. Several companies have approached us. We have a specific partner who has tried to obtain a loan for this very purpose. As far as I know, he has already addressed this problem to KredEx. He's using 30 people with special needs right now. He has a very good idea that can be applied in any region of Estonia, it does not have to be in Tallinn, it could take place in Võru or Ida-Viru County, wherever, and at least 50 people could be used. But he is currently unable to obtain funding for this model. This is definitely a place where we should negotiate more precisely with KredEx, and opportunities should be created there. Social entrepreneurship is very common in other parts of the world. In some countries, a pretty high percentage of all entrepreneurship is in the hands of social entrepreneurship. I see a huge need for such a measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U51	Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U52	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, First of all, you must gladly admit that you are doing an impressive job. This presentation was like a great success story, which is always very good to listen to. I wish you strength and success! My question is also about the last sentences of your report. This concerns social entrepreneurship. The direction should not only be that someone should employ a disabled person, but that a disabled person himself, or these people together, could create a job for themselves and others. Why don't you talk about your starting point for the development of social entrepreneurship and also refer to the possible shortcomings or opportunities that we have or do not have?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U53	First of all, in Estonia, social entrepreneurship does not really exist in legal terms; it is mostly non-profit organisations. In many other countries, however, this business exists. I think it is very difficult to implement, because, especially if there are any tax incentives, it is likely that everyone will soon want to be social enterprises. Social entrepreneurship is a relatively new phenomenon in Estonia. Of the larger companies, I now know three, all of whom operate in the form of a non-profit organisation. What are the drawbacks? For example, there is a lack of law that we do not have social entrepreneurship in the legal sense, but I do not know how to make very good recommendations on how to do this. Consider examples from other countries. The odds are there. One reason why these companies are non-profit organisations is that if you want to start social entrepreneurship as a private limited company, you cannot turn to funds (ESF, Civil Society Foundation, Open Estonia Foundation). There may be even more funds that do not support entrepreneurship in the form of a private limited company. It is very difficult for people with special needs to set up a private limited company if there is no support anywhere. There could be other options for this: EAS, KredEx or whatever.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U54	Please, colleague Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U55	Thank you. Thank you very much for your presentation. I think that NGO Abikä and personally your activities are very grateful and necessary in our society. I also think that employment for people with special needs is an issue of open thinking and an open-minded approach. For example, if there is a deaf servant in the service of the military air force in Israel, we still have a long way to go. But here's my question. If you look at your three-year work experience, what, in your opinion, best motivates a person with a disheartened special needs to look for a job and what, in essence, motivates an employer to hire a person with a special needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U56	In general, the best motivation for people is to see a friend in the same situation get a job, get it done and get paid for it. Our own example is that we once went to nursing homes where people with special needs live and hired two people from there. We found two people who were very good on our team. It didn't take much time for the rest of the people to turn to us. At that time, we only took these people on our own team. It is exactly the same with employers: if they take a person with a special need to work and see that it works, it will certainly motivate them. There are employers in Estonia who have employed these people. They say the exact same thing: they hired one person and are very pleased. We have been approached by a great many entrepreneurs, even surprisingly, in connection with this campaign. We did not believe that there were so many entrepreneurs who had the desire and will to take at least one such person to work to try and see if it worked. There is a company in Tallinn that employs 180 people with special needs. So the situation is not the worst, but if we work properly and go through as many businesses as possible, I think it can be further improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U57	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U58	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Your work is not only covered by today's report, but very many people with special needs who have received your work have told their stories. Thank you so much for this job. You will issue a mark that recognises entrepreneurs and shows that these companies support the employment of people with special needs. How many of these signs have you issued, and will you do so in cooperation with the Chamber of People with Disabilities and the municipalities? I believe that there are entrepreneurs across Estonia in very many municipalities who offer such an opportunity. How to apply for this mark and who can apply for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U59	The character can currently be applied for on the page whose address is workmekoos.ee. We haven't issued any signs yet. We are planning a press event for this in February, involving those with whom we are already working, so that this will look more attractive to others who could think about it in the future. Applying for the mark is very simple: you must fill out the form and we will be in touch. We do this in cooperation with the House of Disabled People, and our partner is also the Ministry of Social Affairs, who will support us in this endeavour. The mark is also applied by a number of large companies, trade chains, which show that people with special needs work as cart pushers. We do not yet cooperate with the local authorities. This mark is issued by the Helping Hand. The undertaking applying for the mark shall be subject to the assessment of the undertaking by the Commission. But you don't always have to go there. If necessary, we will visit the site and assess whether the company really deserves this mark. I guess the company doesn't usually go to us for a reason. They turn when they know they're worth the mark.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U60	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U61	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, thank you for your meaningful presentation and for the work you have done. I wonder why the Ministry of Social Affairs doesn't do this job. Why is this activity organised through a non-profit organisation? In any case, honor and praise to you, but I think you could belong to one of the departments of the Ministry of Social Affairs and run this department. But here's my question. 9800 people are ready to enter the labour market. Can you tell from your experience how many people could actually succeed in the labour market, what is this percentage?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U62	In general, a person who wants to go to work will also succeed. The obstacle is that most of them are unable to work full - time, or eight hours. If I look at 700 jobseekers who have approached us, surely more than half of them have that condition. Six hours of work would be okay. A social tax credit would also be a very good thing, which would not actually generate a direct cost. If the employer needs a working day of 12 hours and if split into two six-hour parts, this would not entail a very high extra cost. This is one of the biggest concerns of employers. Some can be convinced that they would take two people into one job, while others would not accept it, since responsibility would then be divided between two people and there would be more paperwork. There could be some kind of incentive measure in hiring part-time or part-time workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U63	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, I wish you a lot of strength in your future work too! You've put a lot of people into work. As you said, a few days you will be contacted by 50-70 people. You communicate with these people a lot. How many people with special needs who have contacted you and have you been in contact with are going to do a simpler job? How many people with special needs who are willing to do more complicated and perhaps more rewarding work?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U65	About 10% of these people have a Master's or Bachelor's degree, or higher education, who are willing to do more difficult work. However, as the previous speaker pointed out, the biggest problem among people with special needs is education. They do not have vocational education or training; many do not have secondary education. I guess you said it yourself before. After school, the support's gone. I think we need to deal more with young people. Their level of education is very low. That's where they get jobs with a minimum wage or very low wage. However, if there is also a pension, these people will somehow cope. The percentage of people who are willing to go to a "good job" is not very high.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U66	Please, Mr Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U67	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your presentation. You yourself are a good example of the fact that if there is a will, everything can be done, it is not always necessary to apply for the Ministry. My question is perhaps a bit peculiar, it concerns defence and people with special needs. I discussed this with a good colleague, Jüri Jaanson, who suggested that suddenly there is too high a firewall created by strict demands here, because even if someone with special needs has a wish, he still cannot participate in national defence. If we could open this door a little bit, if only by allowing a voluntary replacement service, would that help you with your mission? Would this increase the confidence of these people and perhaps change their reputation in the eyes of businesses as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U68	Definitely! There is no doubt that such a thing would be very necessary. I know through the press that there has been one case when a young man who lost his leg in the ministry went back to the service. I believe that if such a thing were to become possible, it would motivate society as a whole. Jüri Jaanson mentioned Israel's example earlier. Your idea is very welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U69	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U70	Thank you, Madam President. We are talking today about the pain and suffering of people and the pains of society. Sadly, there are so few of us in this hall. A little while ago, there were more people on the balcony than there were in the hall. At the same time, it is the people who are sitting in the hall now who are seriously interested in the matter, as can be seen from the questions. What are we doing sitting here convincing each other about things that are obvious to all of us? My question is: can you name specifically what legislative amendment you need and what assistance do you expect from the Riigikogu? Let's formalize it, drag it through the committees and do something that we could do in this consensus. Then maybe the Lord will forgive us some sins. What kind of amendment do you need?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U71	Changes would be necessary, but it is difficult to say them here, because, as I said before, these measures do not necessarily depend directly on the laws adopted by the Riigikogu. However, we do not want to put entrepreneurs in a position where, for example, they would not be allowed to let people with special needs go. It would cause even more fear, and it would be harder to get these people to work. There are places to think. One of the things I think could and should be is to encourage, to some extent, participation in public procurement. For example, if there is a social enterprise in which a public procurement is announced in the field of activity (i.e. training or some kind of productive activity) and if the offer of that enterprise fulfils any of the conditions of the procurement, it should be in a slightly more favourable situation. Currently, only the largest and most powerful companies will win public procurement; the smaller ones will be excluded. This is a concrete proposal. However, I would like to put forward proposals to the Commission in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U72	Please, Mr Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U73	Thank you. Dear waitress, first of all, my appreciation for your presentation and for your actions. You rightly pointed out that the inclusion of people with disabilities increases social cohesion and reduces exclusion, and as such it is absolutely necessary and welcome. You concentrated mainly on involving disabled people in the private sector in your presentation, but the public sector could be a guide, an attitude designer and certainly a role model when it comes to policy making in this area. How do you feel about the idea that the public sector could make greater use of so-called positive discrimination in the future? If a post is to be performed by means of a public competition, should a disabled person be given priority in close proximity to a level playing field?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U74	Of course, this could be the case if you can see that this person is able to cope and has the ability to learn. I also mentioned earlier that the public sector could pay more attention to this. I have also competed for public sector jobs, but I have not succeeded. I don't know, maybe I wasn't the best, probably wasn't, because I didn't apply for an area in which I've been educated. However, if such a thing can be regulated by law, it could certainly be done. I think it could at least be good practice. Some large companies in Estonia do so. If the CV says that a person has a disability, it's definitely the person who is invited to the interview. Even if the CV is very poorly drafted and it can be seen that a person does not fit in, he is nevertheless invited to a conversation. They say it's paid off, they've found jobs for people like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U75	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U76	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You're doing an excellent and very important job, but you're not the only ones. I've been in contact with a couple of non-profit organizations that also trade people with disabilities into the labour market. There are pros, but there are cons. For example, about a year and a half ago, the Social Initiative Centre for Integration mediated 50 hearing-impaired people to work in a commercial network, but after two or three months, four of them remained there. People are hired on a contract of employment, not on a normal contract of employment. You just don't know how to communicate with them. In short, there is a will, but there is no skill or competence. How do you assess employers' willingness to deal with these people? Wouldn't they need some kind of training provided by the unemployment fund or something like that? There's good will, but there's no skill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U77	That's exactly what it is. I also mentioned before an example that one of the Estonian large companies wanted a support person. The support person was not needed for a person with special needs to learn the moves needed for work, since it was necessary to take one of the boxes and the other straw and put them together, which everyone quickly learns. They wanted the support person precisely so that the rest of the collective could handle the person so that they would not look at him wrong. They wanted a support person to train the rest of the company. It is best to speak openly with the employer. When it comes to a chain of commerce with dozens of shops, each store manager needs to talk about it. There's a lot of explaining to do there. I am not sure if the unemployment fund has such training. Anyway, as a volunteer, the staff manager of one of the major companies in Estonia is willing to do this work, who has previously worked at the unemployment fund and learned to do exactly that kind of explaining work. If there is a need, we have a volunteer to explain. But since it is not an unemployment fund measure, it could certainly be. In fact, we also have a sponsor through the unemployment fund, but there is no direct measure there. It's like this person's going to help, but he actually has other jobs. We've been through the same thing. I don't know if the non-profit organisation you mentioned is new. I believe we made the same mistakes at first. We now have a three-year experience and everything is much better thought out. We provide more support to the entrepreneur. Once we have mediated a person with special needs to work, that will not end our communication with the entrepreneur and that person. I can't say that all people stay on the job. There are certainly those who fall out, but personal qualities are more important than skills.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U78	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for answering questions is over. Thank you very much to Mr Ülper for his presentation and his answer to the questions. I call the Chair of the Social Affairs Committee, Margus Tsahkna, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U79	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen and good previous speakers. I am pleased that this issue is being discussed here today as an important national issue. I have been asked why the Social Affairs Committee brings this issue to the Chamber of the Riigikogu as an important national question, whether it is such an important issue to discuss it in such a format. I can say that the last two weeks, when we prepared this subject, have proved that this is a very important issue not only for people with special needs, but for the whole country. There's a bill here today. I repeat how many people have a special need, perhaps, to narrow down, to whom a disability has been assigned. It is often not known that in fact, one in ten people living in Estonia is disabled, i.e. they are disabled. However, as my colleague Jüri Jaanson stated in the open session of our committee, there are people who are not disabled because they are not interested in it, but they need help and they are a person with special needs. It can therefore be said that more than 1 in 10 people are directly involved in this issue in our society. The previous speaker pointed out that in 2011, 89400 people had been assigned partial or total incapacity for work, 33000 of them were employed and 9800 were actively seeking employment. There are a large number of people who are not actively looking for work. There are very different reasons for this that I can still get to. However, if we look at this issue as a crucial national issue, it must be borne in mind that the population is declining, that the economy is developing actively and that, instead of unemployment, entrepreneurs are saying that there is a very high labour shortage, which is getting worse. At the same time, a tenth of society is in a situation where a very large part of it is not on the labour market, which means that they cannot contribute to the development of our society and therefore remain socially excluded. We held a public meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 22 January, in preparation for today's debate, with a large number of organisations in this area, as well as the representatives of the companies involved in this matter. I was very surprised that, in addition to the members of the Commission and the rapporteurs, more than 30 people and representatives of organisations arrived, which shows that there is a great deal of interest in this issue in this sector. Monika Haukanõm, representative of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, systematically outlined the principles behind the need for employment for people with special needs or disabilities. These objectives vary. First of all, the social objective primarily for this person himself: self-realisation, the feeling of inclusion. These people are very often excluded from social life because of their disability or because they do not have the opportunity to participate in the labour market, which means that their self-fulfillment and self-satisfaction are very poor. The second objective is economic, precisely at national level. As I mentioned, we are getting worse with labour shortages, while there are a number of people with special needs who could be taxpayers. The previous speaker also mentioned that even if the 9800 people who are actively looking for work would not even have a job with a high salary, but with a modest salary, the state would have a income tax of EUR 3 million, which is a significant amount and would help to reduce social spending in the long term. One aspect that has not been mentioned is the legal objective: working is one human right. Human rights must also be guaranteed for people with disabilities. We have done a lot of work, we ratified and adopted the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities last year, and we have set targets for ourselves, but at the same time every day we see that we still discriminate against people with disabilities at different levels. This situation must certainly change. The Constitution also says that an Estonian citizen has the right to freely choose an occupation, profession and employment. I do not think that we have been able to guarantee maximum compliance with this constitutional right by means of a state order. I'm sure there's a lot of work to be done here. One of the biggest issues that needs to be addressed and where change is needed is the prejudiced attitude that prevails in society. The reasons for prejudice vary. Perhaps one reason is from history when people with special needs, disabled people, and children who for many reasons did not have a family, were hidden from the public's eyes into children's and nursing homes created in the old manor centres. This attitude has changed quite strongly, but such prejudices do exist. As a result of this attitude, people with special needs often do not dare to take the steps they have physically and mentally. They are rejected, and they can't find the strength to break out of established positions. When we talk about employment, it is certainly important that the attitude of the entrepreneurs mentioned repeatedly is also important. The experience of Indrek Ülper, the leader of NGO Abikä, shows that if you go to two or three entrepreneurs a day to talk to, at least half of them will be willing to offer jobs to people with special needs after this brief conversation. Thus, if we actively explain and show opportunities, jobs will also be found. A good example is NGO Abikäi, who has been active for several years and whose representative is also in the Chamber of the Riigikogu today. It is very important to mention that the "last push" of the debate on this important national issue today was the campaign launched by NGO Abikäi, which started already in the s. a On 7 January and until the beginning of February. This is the 'Work Together' campaign. I hope many of you have noticed this campaign in different media. In the public sitting of the Commission, we received information on what I think was exciting. In fact, within this few or three weeks, the NGO has created 200 jobs that can be offered to people immediately. Similarly, more than 400 people are actively seeking employment. One non-profit organisation has been able to create a situation of job-seekers and job-offerers in a short period of time, and now they must be brought together. It was precisely the state's measures that were mentioned in our committee, particularly as regards the activities of the unemployment fund. Today we have heard in this Chamber about the various measures that the country offers through the unemployment fund. I have to say, we've gotten pretty far here. We have developed a lot of measures and support services, but the problem is that very often, on the one hand, entrepreneurs themselves do not know and do not want to go to the unemployment fund to get help from the state, and on the other hand, people with special needs do not know how to find entrepreneurs. This is where I see one of the practical results of our debate, so that third sector organisations and various national organisations, in cooperation with the public, can bring the ends together and work together on a daily basis. Then people who have already turned to or will turn to NGO Abikäi in cooperation with the unemployment fund, the Astangu Vocational Rehabilitation Centre and other organisations could help more. Businesses should certainly be involved. Therefore, the sign 'Working together' given to those entrepreneurs who have created social jobs could receive greater recognition and public support so that it becomes not only a sign from a non-profit organisation, but also some kind of principled quality. As Indrek Ülper said, the example of Britain proves this. What can I do? There have been various suggestions here. Firstly, people's awareness should be improved and encouraged, both for businesses and people with special needs who wish to participate in the labour market. But we also need to review the philosophy of determining incapacity for work. This bill will be prepared at the Ministry of Social Affairs and I hope it will soon reach the Riigikogu. At the moment, the approach is to determine a person's incapacity for work. This should, however, change in determining work capacity. Practical solutions must be found at the level of the legislator, so that these people are able to be included in the labour market. I think that if we are going to make such a fundamental change, there must be quite a lot of debate. This certainly also requires a review of financing. The other proposals are as follows: It is the public sector itself that could serve as an example in filling jobs, i.e. if people with special needs are equally competent with others, they could be preferred for recruitment. Similarly, social entrepreneurship should be encouraged. Why should the Riigikogu not review the legal form of social entrepreneurship, so that social entrepreneurship is able to direct its activities towards profit-making and at the same time receive funding from various funds for which companies currently do not have the opportunity? Of course, there is a question of state aid here, but this is an issue that we could discuss. The Public Procurement Act also needs to be looked at. There could be some kind of recommended mooring that, when a social enterprise makes an equal and completely competitive offer with others, it could favour such companies, give them a job and also a message from the state that we prefer social enterprises dealing with people with special needs in order to do our procurement, for taxpayers' money. One of the issues that came up separately in our open committee session was education. Access to vocational and special education is a major problem. People in primary and primary education acquire, but later it will be difficult for people with special needs to complete their education. This is a difficult task for our education system, and certainly for the municipalities, who should provide all kinds of support so that people can take advantage of the opportunities they actually have. Understandably, municipalities are cautious as this money simply does not exist. This obstacle should be overcome. I specifically stress what was pointed out by the representative of the non-profit association Abikas that the possibility of using the support person's service could be offered among the measures of the unemployment fund. The sponsor helps the person to adapt to the company that has decided to create a job for people with special needs. We could check with the unemployment fund to see if it is possible to bring this service into practice. Finally, I am talking about social entrepreneurship. Indeed, with regard to this form of enterprise, we could see if we can offer new measures through KredEx and EAS, which would help precisely such companies to start up their activities. Certainly, these measures cannot be 'continuous', but they could be designed to guarantee the capital loan needed to start operations, etc. I hope that this nationally important debate will produce important national results in the coming years. It is based on changing our attitude, that of society as a whole, and injecting courage into people who are engaged in entrepreneurship and people with special needs, so that they can come and ask what they actually own equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U80	Thank you very much, Mr Tsahkna. Please ask a question, Mr Randver.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable performer! My question was rather intended for the previous speaker, the representative of the non-profit association Abikäs, but I am now asking you. The issue is very topical, the inclusion of people with special needs in the labour market, and the mediation of their labour force is very important. But we do have people with special psychological needs and people with physical disabilities. In previous years, it has been said that the search for solutions has been more prone to people with physical disabilities. Was the subject raised that little attention has been paid to the labour market mediation of people with special psychological needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U82	Thank you, good questioner! The representative of the organisation of persons with mental disabilities spoke separately at the Commission meeting and pointed out this problem. He also stated that people with mental disabilities might be particularly prejudiced. If there is a physical disability, it can be seen specifically. Very often, people with mental disabilities do not want to have their mental disability formally determined, but try to have another disability determined to cover up their mental disability. There must be communication work here. When a person has a mental disability, it does not mean that he is unable to socialize or work. In any case, you have to look at how deep that mental disability is. But the attitude spoken of by a good questioner is there, and attention must be paid to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U83	Please, my colleague, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U84	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, My question concerns transport, especially the opportunities for people with special needs to get to work and get home from work. Are you aware of how transport planning is organised across Estonia? Some time ago, there was a travel attendant project in Tallinn, which ended after the local elections. But maybe some bus routes could use a traveler like that? In Tallinn there is also a bus for wheelchairs to work and home. How has this been resolved elsewhere in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U85	Thank you. This has been resolved differently in local governments, as well as in terms of interest and financial opportunities. I know that several rural municipalities in Lääne-Virumaa have had joint projects to provide this service. But there's always financial problems. Indeed, this matter of travel attendants has come to my ears as well. The Astangu Centre for Vocational Rehabilitation has shown interest in this, as a travel attendant is needed to enable people with special needs to travel to them by public transport. If I'm not mistaken, Astangu's on line 61. Travellers are not needed as a "social project," which I think has now been completed in Tallinn, but constantly. Such proposals should certainly be listened to more. Of course, accessibility is one problem why people with special needs do not make certain decisions, such as participation in the labour market. But Tallinn is good at providing this service in Tallinn, helping people with reduced mobility to work places and where they need to go. I don't want to blame Tallinn for anything directly here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U86	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Tsahkna, for his presentation and for answering questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for a chair as representative of the Group of the Jüri Jaanson Reform Party. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party Group considers it necessary to reverse prejudice among businesses and society as a whole and to eliminate social exclusion in the employment of people with special needs. We believe that, more broadly, positive attitudes towards the employment of people with special needs and preference for employment capacity are important untapped reserve capital. A worker with special needs is often able to work better and more conscientiously than a normal worker under adapted conditions. This knowledge needs to be disseminated in society. The Reform Party Group considers it important to note that an important aspect of the labour market for people, including those with special needs, is the possibility of education, including vocational training. It is therefore extremely important that our educational establishments and vocational training centres are adapted to the needs of people with special needs in a modern and ongoing way. The knowledge of teachers and teachers about the needs of students with special needs is also important. I will give a negative example of a lack of access to education. The number of video lectures is exploding in universities and other educational institutions, but these lectures are not accompanied by subtitles or translation into sign language. This makes it difficult, often impossible, to get an education for people with impaired hearing. The damage that a country and society will suffer is, in fact, great. I therefore take this opportunity to put to the heart of the Committee on Culture that they certainly always take into account the opportunities and needs of young people with special needs when dealing with the draft law on vocational training institutions which passed the first reading yesterday and other draft laws on educational establishments. I know they're doing it already, but it's not too much to say again. I would like to draw attention to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities ratified a year ago in this very Chamber. Article 27 "Work and employment' of this Convention recognises the right of people with special needs to work on an equal basis with others, prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in all employment-related matters, and ensures that people with special needs can exercise their labour and trade union rights on an equal basis with others. Last week, at the public session of the Social Committee on 22 January, issues relating to the employment of people with special needs were addressed in a comprehensive and comprehensive manner. This gave assurance that labour market measures and welfare services supporting them would be sufficient to increase employment for people with special needs. Nevertheless, the biggest problem is the 41% gap between the employment of ordinary people of working age and those with special needs. This situation should be improved, among other measures, in the near future, by a new and comprehensive labour market policy plan submitted to the government by the Ministry of Social Affairs in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. According to this, the assessment of incapacity for work should start instead of incapacity for work and the payment of disability pensions should be given priority over rehabilitating investments, such as the provision of aids, training and other instruments to enable workers with special needs to cope. This is very important for involving people with special needs in active working life. Another important change is the transfer of people with special needs from the Social Insurance Institution to the unemployment fund. It's not just a technical change. Due to the specific nature of the institution, people are looked at differently in the unemployment fund. Finally, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I call on all members of the Riigikogu to work actively in society to dissuade prejudices concerning workers with special needs. I think that it is precisely as a result of broad-based political joint action that social exclusion is being reduced and the overall well-being is also increasing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U88	Thank you very much, Mr Jaanson. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Kabritsa, to speak as a representative of the Group of the Isamaa and the Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U89	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The IRL Group welcomes the fact that this important issue is being discussed in the Riigikogu today. We are few, and every person is important. We live in an area where transnational competition for people is one of the largest in Europe. Our neighbour is Sweden, which is larger in size than Germany, but nine times smaller in number. Our neighbour is also Finland, which is larger in size than Poland, but eight times smaller in number. That's why every person is important. Who would not want young people with a similar cultural background and educated ones? We have to fight for every human being. There are nearly 90,000 people in Estonia who have been assigned partial or total incapacity for work. These include diabetics, people with mental disabilities, heart disease. Of these, 33000 are working and 9800 are looking for work. 46600 are inactive, which doesn't mean they don't start working when they get a chance. I myself have a relative who was left in a wheelchair at the age of 16. Thanks to his good employer, BNS, we read media monitoring in the Riigikogu every day. The most important thing is that employers, as well as future potential colleagues, would not be afraid of people with disabilities. I have a familiar entrepreneur who was planning to hire a hearing impaired person in the warehouse. Previously, he asked several colleagues what their opinion was. Unfortunately, that opinion was negative. Since there is little room in the warehouse, it was feared that this person would be hit by another hoist or some other accident at work. The chief of staff feared this the most: "Imagine if there was an accident at work, how many documents I had to fill out, and what kind of investigation the Labour Inspectorate would follow! " These were real fears, and because of this, the person did not work. In Britain, a good example is a government-funded Remploy association, which for the first few weeks covers the employer's salary, as well as the employee's living and working expenses. In Estonia, too, we could think and should think about how to motivate entrepreneurs to hire people with special needs or what the jobs and services that companies employ people with special needs offer. One of these services is the digitisation of documents. There is demand for this service in part, but it could further reduce red tape and motivate companies to order this service. On behalf of the IRL Group, I propose that the Accounting Act should be amended in particular as regards the obligation to retain the original books. Currently, companies have an obligation to keep their original accounting records for at least seven years. The proposal is to amend the law so that, after the first year, the original documents of the company could be digitised and after that, the obligation would be to keep these documents in digital form for at least six years. Businesses will then have a choice as to whether to pay for digitalisation or for archive space. This is a real opportunity to create greater demand for digitalisation services. Although things have improved in Estonia, much could and could still be done. We have also considered what the unemployment fund could offer more actively. I have come up with the idea of using video-CVs, which also helps save time for entrepreneurs and motivates them to employ people with special needs. They're about to see what this potential employee is, who wants to do this job. Finally, I am pleased that this issue has come up today. Each person is important, and we must work for each person. It is also small steps that will help create these jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U90	Thank you very much, Mr Kabrits. I would like to ask my colleague, Helmen Küti, to speak as a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U91	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable guests! Colleagues! Internet consultation watchers! First of all, thank you for your presentation to Pille Liimal of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund and to Indrek Ülper, a member of the Management Board of MTÜ Abikäi! On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to put forward some thoughts and suggestions. The fact that we are talking about the inclusion of people with special needs in the labour market as a key national issue is, of course, right and very necessary. More importantly, today's debate will not only remain to state the situation, but will also be followed by steps to remedy the shortcomings that have been identified. What is more important, however, is that every bill that we process and adopt follows the principle that no one's rights are restricted merely to the goal of being more economical and less money spent. Now to the subject. We're all from childhood. The emotions, experiences, skills, and opportunities we receive in childhood often determine our whole future life. I am convinced that everything in life begins with the medical system and the possibility or lack of education, starting from early childhood education or kindergarten. Can we find and develop a unique gift and skill in every child, including a child with special needs? Will the decisions made in the name of purely financial austerity not become more expensive for the country in the future? Does throwing the ball between the state and the municipality, as well as placing the sole responsibility of the parent, ensure the country's sustainable development? Today we are talking about the inclusion of people with special needs in the labour market and measures that could support both workers and businesses. They are undoubtedly necessary. However, the education system should already ensure that people with special needs not only have easier jobs but also have the opportunity to do so-called'smart work'. The name does not violate the carrier or the person doing the job, but in order to be able to do the smart work, it is important to ensure that no child in need of help is left without help in the education system. Let me give you some examples. According to the government regulation, local authorities were still allowed to use the wage from the Equalisation Fund for teachers to pay salaries to specialists in support systems, such as logos and psychologists. Now this money is dedicated and will only be paid by teachers. Municipalities are in a situation where only those with financial capacity and perhaps who consider it a priority can provide this much needed support service. However, the service is essential to ensure that children with special needs, whether healthy or educationally special needs, remain in the education system at all. The Minister of Education and Research said yesterday in Question Time that processing and supplementing the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is in the hands of the Riigikogu. If the law had written that the state would provide money for the specialists in support systems, it would not be against it. Should we not think today, when discussing this very important issue, that only a highly educated person can enter the labour market? Every person is important to Estonia as a small country. Are we so rich that we can promise that in order to save money, for example, the talents of autistic children will not be developed, we will leave them in the corner in the future as an unemployed adult and in need? Or would it be right for them to become competitive people and taxpayers on the labour market thanks to the right education arrangements? I believe you have read the opinion story of Postman journalist Tiina Kangro on 29 January 'We still have time... " that gives a number of such examples. However, I will bring a small quote to interest those who have not yet read this article and those who have already read it to think along, if we were to discuss the basic school and upper secondary school law in this Chamber: 'The connection between resources saved in education and spent in the social sphere, since their impact on the current state budget and on the future, no one would have discovered these different systems, different wallets and even irreplaceable Jürgen Lig and his hard-working computers on the Suur-America street, the red lights will not be flashing at such seemingly minor things. ' Should we not, however, look at the system as a whole, not so that every ministry is only busy in its own piece, without seeing the whole? No doubt our country is young. However, after regaining independence, the creation of a comprehensive system has begun, both in the form of unemployment fund services and other services. Great recognition for the civil society and, for example, for the non-profit association present here today, the Helping Hand, as well as for many other bodies, both private and public, who have seen this great potential and the skills that people with special needs have. In my home town of Viljandi, too, many entrepreneurs have created jobs that allow them to work part-time, to work in such a way as to take into account the health status of the worker or the special need. For example, I'll bring OÜ Washing Expert. Finally, I believe that a broken hand or leg, a slightly worse eye or hearing ear, are certainly smaller trees than, for example, a black conscience. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I call on all those who prepare and take decisions on draft laws to see the whole. Believe me, the seemingly higher cost in certain areas, be it social or educational, will later give the country much more in return, not to mention leaving people with dignity and a chance to live a decent life. These people do not need pity, need to be supported and given equal opportunities with others. Moreover, let us not be afraid to review the laws and, if necessary, make changes to them and increase the responsibility of the state to ensure, at least in the minimum, equal opportunities for all persons with special needs, regardless of their place of residence and the administrative capacity or inability of their municipalities. The article entitled 'We still have time... ' I agree, but I say that there is not much time. We do not have much time because every euro that has not been contributed today will cost 10 euros more to combat the consequences in the future. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U92	Thank you very much, Mr Helmen Hunter. I would like to ask for a speech from my colleague, Mrs Toomi, as a representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U93	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm in a bit of a difficult situation because I'm the last one to push the button. In fact, I agree with 102% of everything that sounded from this speaker. But I still have a few things to say. I am the person of this generation who still remembers his childhood as the invalids of World War II. There was a man living next door with no legs. He didn't have a wheelchair. He had a table with wheels. He was a shoemaker. When I first saw him, I don't remember whether I was four or five years old, I stayed staring at him. Grandma said, "Don't look, it's not polite. " I killed my eyes. That is the attitude with which we are all more or less infected to this day: when we see these people, we kill our eyes because we do not know how to communicate with them. This is not only the case in society, but also in national politics until recently. So it is very nice that this debate is taking place here today and that it was initiated by the Committee on Social Affairs. I'll tell Margus Tsahkna it's also a very bold step. Every time we discuss something important here as a national issue, especially those sensitive things, we give people the hope that things will get better. But tomorrow, nothing is going to happen, and probably in the coming months, I will say very optimisticly. In this debate, we do not only share our thoughts. Someone who came to the remote already said he didn't need to be convinced it was necessary. We convince each other how good it is to include people with disabilities in the labour market. We know that, but we are not employers, we are legislators. This means that we will have to move on to this issue no later than the next week and start some legislative work to alleviate the situation of these people. All the suggestions that were made here are welcome. A few ideas could be argued, but I do believe that the Central Party Group will be happy to contribute to this work. But there's one thing I didn't mention, and I need to talk about it. As in our society in general, there are Russian-speaking people among people with disabilities. Their concern is slightly greater than that of the Estonian-speaking people. I contacted the Ida-Viru County Association of Hearers this morning. They have this problem, for example, that as of last year, there was a single higher category sign translator in Estonian. When we talk about the need to translate news into sign language that is sometimes done, no one talks about sign translation in Russian. The claim that the sign language of Estonian and Russian people is the same does not really hold water. It's not like that. These people are isolated. Their message is that when a hearing impaired child is born, and his parents are so-called high-ranking parents with a breakthrough ability, this child becomes something. If he doesn't have parents like that, he'll be nothing. This is where I come to the education system. Helmen Küttt quite rightly raised the question that the possibilities for obtaining education are very different. We have not had a single educational establishment for 20 years or a little less, where children from Russian-speaking families who do not hear can study in their native language. They are sent to the Estonian school and the result is that they literally cannot communicate with their parents because they simply do not understand each other. It really hurts. For example, there is a single school in Tallinn where Russian-speaking people with any disability can study. It's the School of Blossom. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U94	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U95	Everyone is together in one educational establishment: people with very severe disabilities, people with lighter disabilities, etc. They don't have a thing for Astangu Center, and they're not really expected there. The consequence is that the person who studies at this school and gets more or less proper social rehabilitation there stays at home after school. In two or three years, the educators are gonna cry that the level is low again and he won't be any more. It's a very big problem. I hope that when we come to the real steps and start looking at how to help these people, we will remember that we also have disabled people whose native language is not Estonian and who need the help of the state as well as everyone else. Finally, I still want to be optimistic and believe that, while we have already given people hope, we will also act responsibly and try to solve these problems. Thank you once again to the NGO Abikä, who is doing an excellent job and is doing it well and was even so successful that he brought this debate to this big hall! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-31_U96	Thank you very much, Mr Toom. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. I thank the waitresses for the presentations! I would also like to thank all the colleagues who asked the questions and the rapporteurs who answered the questions. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 12.16 p.m.
