ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-14_U1	Good fellows, good morning. We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been given a great fortune in our beautiful mother tongue. Allow us all to wish for a dignified use of this beautiful language and a beautiful English day! [[Let's hear it.]] I am going to the announcements, but before that, I would like to ask the members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries. Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-14_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, On 26 February this year, the Minister of Justice gave the Riigikogu an overview of the implementation of the "Triminal Policy Developments until 2018" in 2012. 'Criminal Policy Developments until 2018' is a comprehensive document approved by the Riigikogu and contains quite a few specific tasks for the Government, ministries and local governments of the Republic. Unfortunately, in a review prepared by the Minister of Justice, only a few of them found mention. The Government of the Republic should not take a lukewarm or superficial view of the performance of the task given by the Riigikogu; the Estonian state should not regard the prevention of crime in a lukewarm or superficial manner. Prevention, of course, is much more effective than combating the consequences. Social Democrats attach great importance to crime prevention and would like to hear an overview of the performance of outstanding tasks. We have therefore focused on issues that were not covered by the Minister of Justice in his review and we are asking the Minister of Justice 17 questions on the implementation of developments in criminal policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-14_U3	There's no more calls. I have adopted an inquiry on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. Let's move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 79 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 22. Let's get to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-14_U4	The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Civil Service Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. So we can go to the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Civil Service Act and other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 365. Please take a stand and vote. 73 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Bill 365 of the Civil Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-14_U5	We will move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Rescue Services Act and the related Law Amendment Act 364. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. So we can go to the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, I will put to the final vote a draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Rescue Services Act and related laws 364. Please take a stand and vote. 64 MPs voted in favour, 2 against and no abstentions. Draft Act 364 on the amendment of the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Rescue Services Act and related laws has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-14_U6	We will move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the External Action Service Act and the Public Service Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Andre Sepa, Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-14_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the Act amending the Foreign Service Act and the Public Service Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, was completed in this Chamber on 27 February. The deadline for submitting amendments was 7 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-14_U8	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's a lot of noise in the hall. Please respect the waitress and those members of the Riigikogu who wish to listen!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-14_U9	No amendments were tabled by Riigikogu members, committees or political groups within this deadline. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 11 March, where Mare Tropp, senior lawyer at the International Law Bureau of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, participated as the initiator. The Commission decided, on a proposal from the initiator, to propose two amendments for the second reading of the draft, specifying the wording used in the text. The wording used in the original text of the draft act is "freed from service" and the term "end of contract of employment" is used instead of "out of contract of employment." The Commission stated as a reason that employment could end in other cases. Following this discussion, the Commission took the following procedural decisions, which were taken by consensus. First, to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the second reading of the draft be stopped and that the rapporteur be appointed before you and, second, when the second reading of the draft 366 is completed, to propose to the Riigikogu bureau that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary sitting for the third reading on Tuesday, 19 March and that the draft be adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-14_U10	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We are going to examine the 366 amendments to the draft. Two amendments have been received, both from the lead committee. First amendment, second amendment. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the third item is also dealt with. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.11.
