ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U1	Good fellows! Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the 12th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U2	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I will report an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas, on the preferential lending and sale of relief and rehabilitation facilities. We all know that these tools are intended for people with reduced mobility, for the elderly and for people temporarily in need of aids due to illness. These tools support self-sufficiency in movement, etc. Companies offer preferential lending and sales through funds allocated from the state budget. Unfortunately, this state aid is not enough and many municipalities are running out of budgetary resources in the first half of the year. In this context, we are putting four questions to the Minister. We expect a constructive response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U3	Please to the Riigikogu speech chair Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee initiates a draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act. This draft complements the conditions for continuation of unemployment benefits and unemployment benefits as a result of a change in the concept of military service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U5	Lembit Kaljuvee, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U6	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, If you come slowly, everyone's gonna be quiet, even though it was such a big buzz before. Great! It is better to read an inquiry and listen to it when the hall is quiet. Five members of the Democratic Community will submit an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The inquiry concerns fisheries policy and fisheries regulation in Lake Peipsi. In fact, the sharp decline in the fish population in Lake Peipus has been a major problem for years, which is why professional fishermen, as well as the Peipus ecosystem and the development of the region as a whole, are suffering first and foremost. Every day in the fishing sphere, people confirm that this is due to the high percentage of the black market, the massive overshoot of fishing quotas and the predatory fishing. According to lifetime fishermen, the black market share is more than half, meaning that quotas that take account of the lake's capacity and are determined in coordination with scientists are exceeded more than twice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U7	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's a huge buzz in the hall that interferes with the waitress and listeners. I beg you to keep your voice down!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U8	Questions of inquiry concern this disorder. There are two ministries dealing with this issue, but they have not managed to straighten it out. That's why we're asking the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U9	Riigikogu speech chair Eiki Nestori, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Social Democratic Party Group initiates a draft decision of the Riigikogu on care treatment issues. I think we're all forced to admit that for a lot of people, this much-needed service is unattainable. The main reason is that in national order we still make a distinction and say that treatment ends here and care begins here, but in real life people need both care and treatment at the same time. We do not have a clear and coherent system of how to finance it. This statement also starts with the development plan of the Estonian care care network for the years 2004 to 2015 but unfortunately, the development plan does not provide a response to what to do in order to connect these different social systems. The hands of the Riigikogu, as legislator, are short here. In order to make this service available to people in a reasonable manner, the Government of the Republic should negotiate with the Health Insurance Fund and local authorities in order to establish a coherent and clear care system. We submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu, which obliges the Government of the Republic to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U11	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries and two drafts. According to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. We're gonna do a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U12	Let's move on to the third item. The first reading of the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Priit Toobali, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am before you today to introduce the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act, which bears the number 388. Since the subject of e-elections and their control is very topical in the light of the approaching local elections, I hope that you have followed the procedure of the draft. However, before a more detailed description of the draft, I will go back in time and explain what, in the opinion of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, has made this legislative amendment necessary. The situation of the critics and advocates of e-elections was probably the most complicated before the 2011 Riigikogu elections, when, on the flagship of the investigative press, the 'Spectator' on national broadcasting, the student of the University of Tartu proved how easy it is to manipulate e-elections with the right knowledge. In fact, the young man who appeared on the show was not an IT student at all, but a history student who only worked on programming in a hobby. The hot advocates of e-elections have, of course, sharpened their teeth on his credibility, but that does not nullify the fact. It was proved that the voter's computer displays a message of successful voting, but the virus that resides on the computer blocks the voter's voice before reaching its destination. The voter puts a peacefully hearted ID card in his pocket, after fulfilling his civic duty, in fact, the voice has been stolen halfway, maliciously or in order to make fun. Both the Riigikogu Election Committee and the Supreme Court discussed this case. The e-election project manager at the time, the current chairman of the electronic voting committee Tarvi Martens, merely said that the computers of voters could not be verified. Despite being aware of the existence of risks and the real danger that voters' voices would be lost halfway, nothing was done. I do not even mean that e-elections have been abandoned, much to be hoped for, but simply a campaign to inform voters to check their computers and to explain how they can do so. However, the criticism of e-elections has not been purely national. During its mission, the international organisation OECD monitored parliamentary elections in Estonia in 2011, with particular attention being paid to the organisation of e-elections. The observers identified a number of shortcomings, of which the following are among the most important: Firstly, Estonia's inadequate laws that do not allow e-election results to be cancelled should the need arise. Secondly, there is no IT expert following the voting procedure in the electoral commission. Thirdly, there is no backup plan in case the voting system should stop. Fourthly, the voter does not have the opportunity to find out if his vote really reached the electoral commission. That's exactly what our bill says. The observation was summed up by the fact that the e-vote system must become more transparent and there is still a lot of work to be done to ensure that this system is fully understood by a voter without IT knowledge. To analyse these recommendations and comments, an electronic voting group was set up at the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, consisting of Valdo Randpere, Jaak Allik, Peeter Laurson, the speaker here, Heiki Sibul, Ülle Madise and Priit Vinkel. This working group was undoubtedly necessary, he did important work and was prepared for a proper analysis. In my opinion, the most eloquent expert opinion was drawn up by Ahto Buldas, Sven Heiberg, Tarvi Martens, Jan Willemson and Priit Vinkel on the necessity of checking online voting. I quote to you part of this document: 'Voting on the Internet has grown from popularity to a second way of voting, which could turn it into a fascinating target for attackers with different motivations. Although the fabrication of vermin is only the first step in the attack and the actual realisation of the attack also requires widespread dissemination, theoretical risks may also be exploited in the political struggle by questioning the legitimacy of the elections first and then of the entire state power. In order to increase the reliability of voting via the Internet, voters must be given the opportunity to check whether their vote has reached the electoral server unchanged. In the context of elections as a whole, one of the most important threats is the mass counterfeiting or blocking of votes. Given the explosive nature of threats associated with electronic attacks, mass attacks against e-voices in 2013 are easier to achieve than ever before. As we move forward with the current concept of e-voting without scrutiny, we will not have any reliable means in the future for fully-fledged detection of such attacks. In the absence of controllability measures in the 2013 municipal elections, it is necessary to be prepared, on the one hand, for the possible undiscovered manipulation of e-voices. On the other hand, even if such an attack does not actually take place, the mere possibility of such an attack would be exploited in the public debate. In this case, we must be prepared to answer legitimate questions from the public, experts and the media about the lack of protection of voters. ' So the experts who are recognised and used by the Republic Election Commission in their daily work have been mentioned, the belief that the credibility of e-elections must be enhanced, and the control of voice is precisely the means by which greater trust can be achieved. Personally, I believe that many more people have not welcomed the proposal of the Constitutional Committee and the decision of the Riigikogu which legitimises the e-voting control system, i.e. verification, only since the 2015 parliamentary elections. This was largely an incentive for the debate in the Riigikogu Chamber with the bill number 388. The Estonian Central Party Group considers that the issue of the controlability of e-elections must be resolved more quickly than by 2015. Although you are certainly familiar with this draft, I would like to reiterate that it aims at the implementation of electronic voice control in the municipal council elections in autumn 2013. I now recall a bit of the debate on this draft in committee. One objection to the completion of the first reading was the fact that, from the viewpoint of the Supreme Court, the electoral law should not be amended less than one year before the elections. I fully agree with that view. Indeed, this principle applies rather to the defence of the opposition, but I do not see the problem of making the electoral system more secure and transparent. With our proposal, we do not change the electoral system in principle, we do not bring any more electoral methods, but we ask for a more secure way of doing so. This is basically the same thing if we were to extend the powers of observers in precinct committees. In this case, no one would say that this would be a fundamental change in the electoral arrangements. So I also see no problem as to why not make the kind of change that we are seeking for the elections that will take place this autumn. IT experts who have advised the e-vote group have expressed the opinion that the creation of a voting control system is nothing insurmountable. This is all the more saddened by the current situation in which we are simply testing a specific control system. So the election is a test site? I don't think so. The election committee could have organised so-called sample or test elections to test the control system and invited the voters, IT experts, and, for my sake, hackers to participate in them and test the system within a week. Pretty sure you could've gotten a reliable sample. Here you can easily bring parallels to new planes. Before the aeroplane is allowed to carry passengers on the route, a number of test flights shall be carried out to verify safety. It's not like the plane's going straight from the factory on the London route to New York. It is not true, therefore, that the Government of the Republic contradicts the fact that the first opportunity to try out the control system is still in the local elections. Once again, I do not think that real elections, on which too much depends, are a place for testing. All the more so, there is no legal result in this experiment under current law. There is also a problem with the form of testing based on phones using the Android operating system. You can only check for half an hour. I, for example, have Nokia's phone, which means that I cannot control my e-voice in the 2013 local elections. Perhaps, then, we should also make a rule that observers in polling stations may only be present for a few hours, or only those who do not have glasses can be viewed? This is not what we want, but in the case of e-elections, we will make an important exception again. As with bank transfers, we can later control operations, it should also be possible for e-elections. The e-election phenomenon has certainly been caused by the convenience of the electoral method, the opportunity to give its voice without leaving home. However, the anonymity of this method of election is equally important, as no one really knows in the electoral commission whether the vote was actually given by the ID card holder and whether it did so completely independently. People must have the opportunity to check their vote later. If we cannot create a reliable control system, how can we trust the entire e-election system? Today I am not speaking directly against this remote control, but I am speaking in favour of secure e-elections. If there is an e-vote in the country, it must not only be honest, but it must also look fair. That is why I ask you to support the draft initiated by the Centre Party Group, which would legitimise the control system in the e-votes already in the autumn municipal elections. Thank you for your attention and I am happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U14	Thank you. Good colleagues, do you have any questions? It is. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U15	Thank you. Dear waitress, I didn't quite get it. How long do you think the electronic selection check, which is applicable at any time, should continue? You said half an hour was too short. How long do you think this is supposed to last ideally?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U16	Thank you. I was talking about the fact that the half-hour proposed for the test period by the Republic Election Commission is obviously too short in our opinion. We do not, of course, foresee a particular point in our draft, which is written by the Republic Election Commission in its regulation. But I think that the examination could last at least until the end of the election period, or at least until the end of that period, if one can complain about the elections. It's often 30 days. At least at that time, you should be able to check your e-voice afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U17	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U18	Thank you. Good waitress! Since you also referred to me and the working group where we worked together in the report, I remembered what we discussed in that working group a few times. In fact, no matter how much and how much to assess the insecurity of e-elections, the usual vote on paper is even more unsafe if I really want to develop any conspiracy theories. Don't you have any idea what to do about it? If you vote on paper, you can't check your voice afterwards. Maybe you have a good idea how to do that? After all the flags, are we going to go through and see if my voice really got there the way I wrote on the note I put in the box?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U19	Thank you. First of all, from the working group where we worked together. I certainly noted this in my presentation in a positive key. I think that this working group did a very good job at nearly 15 meetings. The final result that was handed over to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is undoubtedly only worthy of recognition, especially as the chair of your work as a working group. But I certainly do not agree with the statement that choosing paper ballots is safer than e-elections. All over the world, choosing using paper ballots is a recognised method of election. It only goes further and further than e-elections. I do not know any other country than Russia, where the introduction of e-elections will be considered. The rest of the countries have either withdrawn from it or are planning to move away from it. I do not agree with the argument that elections through paper ballots are safer than e-elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U20	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U21	Thank you. One of the main advantages of choosing on paper is that it is a secret vote, that is, the way you voted, no one will know. This is one of the fundamentals of the functioning of democracy. If we come to the controllability of an electronic voice, there are certainly risks here that we have also seen realised in several municipalities. For example, an employer can collect and vote for people's ID cards or ask people to vote for them in the workplace. At present, for example, a person can vote again at home and there is no way of checking who he or she voted for. After the implementation of this system, the employer could start calling for a voice check. Doesn't that, in your opinion, reduce the integrity of e-elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U22	Thank you. First of all, from the idea of reducing the integrity and credibility of e-elections. One good feature of e-elections is that e-choice can be 'rounded' several times. Even if there are cases you have mentioned that the employer is ordering an e-voting to see if the employee voted in favour of the 'right' candidate, then the possibility of re-election will protect the employee. He can later go to the computer and choose the person or party he wants to choose. After all, no one loses the chance that e-elections can change their decision. Today's technical means are that if there really is an employer like this who wants to control the vote of his employee, which in itself is punishable, he may ask the employee to take a picture of the voting note with the phone, for example, and later show it to the employer. Both practices are punishable. In fact, the e-election control system certainly does not solve all the problems, but it gives the person confidence that his voice arrived the way the person wanted it to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U23	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U24	I'll give you an addition. Priit, I didn't mean in any way that I was criticizing the task force or your part in it. I must also congratulate you, you were very good in this task force, even unusually good. But I had a different idea. I'm watching the Central Party fight against the e-elections all the time. You'll give out brochures or deliver organized commentaries somewhere in the city hall. In fact, all parties except the Centre Party have joined the e-voting good practice agreement. Does the Centre Party intend to join it once, and then we can be sure that no party will try to do anything unethical, even something that Mr Ossinovski has just talked about, or will the Centre Party still be excluded from such a good practice agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U25	Thank you. Make your e-elections safer, then the Centre Party will consider joining the good practice agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U26	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U27	Thank you! Good colleague! In your sufficiently interesting report, you gave an example of the fact that aircraft are being tested under actual circumstances. As far as I know, these planes aren't gonna be loaded up or tested. On the contrary, checks are done on an empty plane, and then people are put on it. That was a comment. However, it is difficult for me to understand this distrust of e-elections and to actively oppose them. After all, there is a choice: if a person does not trust e-elections, he uses a classic method of election, or goes to the polling district, takes a ballot paper and fills it out. What's with all the fear?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U28	Thank you. First of all, testing. I stressed that the Republic Election Commission and the Government of the Republic, in their position, have said that the e-election verification system cannot be implemented sooner; for the first time it can be tested in local elections in 2013, as if real elections were the only way of testing. In other European countries, and also in the USA, if e-elections have ever been tested there, no real elections have ever been tested. Everything will be made clear during the inter-election period. We asked the representative of the Election Commission of the Republic in the Commission when this test system would be completed. He mentioned the autumn of this year. We could very successfully test the system in August, we could make improvements in September, and if the tests were to go well, we could implement the system in October. As regards mistrust of e-elections, the problem is that the share of e-choices has increased steadily, with overall turnout not increasing much, only one-and-a-half percent. I dare not say that this has taken place because of the e-elections. In fact, what we think has happened is that those voters who have so far chosen in a precinct, where there is really a very strict security check, must go alone to the booth and write a note with their own hands, have gone from a secure precinct environment to an unsafe e-election environment in our opinion. They can no longer control their voice in the future. That's a problem! It has been up to us to talk about the problems, because we do not believe that the Republic Election Commission has spoken about these problems. I gave you an example. The need Martens claims that in the case of e-elections, the main problem is the user's computer. I totally agree with him. But then it would be the task of the Republic Election Commission to talk about how people can control their computer before making an election operation. But it has not been done. We're trying to fill this hole.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U29	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, to present this speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U30	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Member of the good Committee on Constitutional Affairs, please tell us what is going to happen in the world and in Estonia if we do not apply electronic voting at all! What's wrong with that? Will Bill Gates pull the support of Estonian from the new Windows or will a computer freak fall into depression? What harm will happen to us if we do not apply electronic voting?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U32	Thank you. E-voting has been implemented for some time. That decision has been taken for today. Today's topic is actually e-voting control and not just control, but legally binding control. I must admit that this question may be out of the context of today's debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U33	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U34	I think that the fact that a person makes his own choice is very welcome. If you mean that another person can, for example, be present or vote with these passwords, it is probably not legal action. But the good news is that this voter can go to the station and vote again on election day. As a result, voice control time is also limited. Unlike my good colleague, I do believe that half an hour is a sufficient time and it is not worth making it longer, precisely because in this case the person loses the opportunity to vote again. If the vote can be controlled after the election, there is a pretty serious risk here, which you have referred to today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U35	A procedural question, Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U36	Thank you, Mr President. I have a mistake to fix. A colleague from the remote misleading his listeners. You can't change the e-voice on election day.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U38	Thank you. Let's get on with the questions. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U39	Thank you, manager. Good colleague! The electoral system must be credible, because trust in our country also depends on it. Why are we using an uncertain electoral system, and is it not because of this principle that this system is not being implemented elsewhere in the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U40	Thank you. I cannot accept your subjective judgment. That makes it difficult for me to answer your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U41	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U42	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You mentioned earlier that it is difficult or almost impossible for e-voting to mathematically bring together the person who has voted and his vote. If, for example, someone else has voted for me and I want to vote for myself, how can it be established that I have now come to the vote and the previous vote that has been given for me must, like, disappear?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U43	Yeah, I can tell you've voted. During the vote check, it can also be established that this particular application has cast a vote on a specific candidate. If you take this data from a database with names and voices, you can't put them together. There is quite a lot of documentation on this, and it is actually public. The protocol of our e-voting system is public and can be consulted by anyone who wishes to vote. Of course, auditors will also assess this every time before the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U44	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U45	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I guess I didn't make myself very clear. Look, I have a big family, I have four ID cards in the wrapper with passwords. I can vote for myself and for my family members, who may not have any interest in the elections. You answered my question. It's not quite legal. Please tell me under which rule of law such action is prohibited and manageable!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U46	Thank you. It is certainly not verifiable unless the person itself claims that you have done so, or for some other reason it is not known. I'll bring the parallel with the signature. If a person signs with a foreign ID-card, the holder of the ID-card has the right to challenge it. If he can prove it, then the signatory is responsible for the act.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U47	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have a more technical question about voice verification. Do you know when the voice is being verified before or after encryption?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U49	Thank you. It depends on the encryption you're thinking. After that, of course. If you vote, the voice will go to the server in encrypted form.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U50	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! If a person votes by electronic means, he or she shall not give a digital signature in the course of the vote. But when he comes to the polling station, he's gonna sign that he's got the note, and he's gonna be able to check if he's been picking or not. If we go on this path, which I am not in favour of, wouldn't it be better if we also gave digital signature in e-elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U52	Thank you. Technically, this process is completely identical because ID-card passwords are requested in e-elections so that data can be encrypted and transmitted. Just like that, your electronic signature is encrypted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U53	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Mikhail Stalnukhini, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U54	You can vote again all the time, and you will change the election results by at least one vote. If you, a good colleague, meant something else, then there is an opportunity to ask a new question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite all the respect I have for you, you know how deeply I love you all, sometimes I feel like I'm in a mental hospital in this room with soft walls. We live in a crazy world. For example, three days ago, the news was that when a group of hackers broke into Twitter and reported that there were explosions in the White House and the president was wounded, after that momentarily, in almost half an hour, the stock market fell. The United States economy lost 200 billion dollars. This is one greater example, now a slightly smaller example. When you opened the news today, you saw that IRL's website was down, and above it were proudly, as I was told, the names of two Turks. Those guys in somewhere in Turkey just made fun of your big money website. You know, this whole conversation about electronic voting is only taking place here in Estonia, it is not happening outside Estonia. A year and a half ago, I went with several members of the Riigikogu, although I was in another group to observe the elections of the State Duma in Russia. Our group had 17 representatives from different countries, as well as from the European Parliament, and three or four political professors. On the day of the elections, we scattered around the country, but about half of them returned to Moscow. We were sitting in the Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, waiting for results and chatting. It was a long night, we talked about a lot of things. Then came up with the so-called KEK in Russia, the complex electronnogo golosovanija, the electronic voting complex. Just so you know, I'll tell you, it's about the size of this remote control. The person comes to the polling station, shows the passport, gets the password, goes to the machine and makes his choices. The machine is not connected to the network. The fact that the hackers get in there is out of the question. It's called electronic voting all over the world. At the time, there were 320 polling stations, which is a hugely small percentage in Russia. But some of us had seen them and told others what they looked like. We exchanged the impressions of what these machines look like in one country or another. Then someone remembered that there was also electronic voting in Estonia. I said yes. 'But what does it look like? ' I took an ID out of my pocket and said, "That's how. " Afterward, I told them briefly about our electronic vote. Additional questions arose: 'Do you want to say that you can vote at any time, in any place, in any state and in any gang? " I answered every question, yes. They looked at me like I was some exotic art scene. Then the guy I'd been to Crown Town with, and who already knew I had a sense of humor, said, "Oh, he's kidding. " And everyone got lighter, only I was extremely bad. I'd even use another word, but it would be rude here. I went to the hall, where there were dozens of computers, opened the pages of the Republic Election Commission in Russian and English, found articles describing electronic voting, then went back to the hall and invited these people to the computers. They came, read, and were in complete shock. Among them were members of the Polish, German, Czech and Israeli parliaments, a German from the European Parliament and a congressman from the United States. That's impossible! You're telling us it's being tried in the world. There is no such idiotic decision as there is anywhere in Estonia. There's no cover, no vote, no vote, it's pure cheating. I will remind you of what it looked like in practice when we once chose europarlamento here. They said the electronic machine couldn't be wrong, it just can't do it. Something happened, didn't it, because the result came on the basis of which the Estonian Central Party received three mandates. The machine didn't like it, I understand that, because it took 40 minutes and the machine repaired itself, about 40 votes went from place to place, and the Centre Party lost and the Social Democrats were given a mandate. How is that possible? That's not what I believe. I think someone's editing, someone's working on it. There's no way you can prove to me that this isn't the case. We have introduced a system that is unsure. I gave examples here. Young people under the age of 20 are breaking into NASA, the U.S. Department of Defense, or Bank of America's systems, everywhere. But you're saying it's a secure and secure system! Why do you need this system that allows third countries to intervene in our policies? Who has gotten into this hall with the votes that are directed outside Estonia, with malice? Colleagues, I think that someday we will leave this asylum where we are now in connection with electronic voting and start thinking like normal politicians around the world. However, it would at least be necessary to ensure the possibility of checking the electronic voting system. To this end, I call on you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I want to be concrete, too. Can you tell us what the arguments were as to why the majority of the Commission voted against this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U57	Thank you for your question. I think that these arguments may have been different for each Member of the Commission. In my opinion, there are two reasons for voting against. Firstly, such a fundamental change half a year before the elections, this time being even shorter, does not correspond to good practice. Secondly, there is a need to make sure that the new verification system operates 100%. It's gonna have to be tested first. Local elections are quite suitable for this because the turnout is high, we get quite a lot of data and can learn from mistakes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U58	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, You didn't answer my question directly, which was whether there were perfectly perfect, fully protected systems. Of course, you couldn't say yes because it would ridicule you in the eyes of your colleagues, IT specialists, all of whom know that there are no fully protected systems. Neither the US Department of Defense, NASA, the FBI, nor the Bank of America, nor any of them, are protected. It is simply a question of why we need a system that is not at all protected by electronic means (I am not talking about other ways to abuse electronic voting) and which allows third countries to intervene in our internal lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U60	Thank you. I actually answered that question. I mentioned that, if you mean that the system is always operational, it really is not possible to guarantee this in the event of a major attack. But in this case, the e-election system simply does not work. As I have already mentioned, the electoral commission will be able to cancel the e-elections and people will go to the polls. It hasn't happened yet, but it can't be ruled out, in the event of a major attack, it's completely real. The other part of the matter is that, purely mathematically, the voters and their voices cannot be brought together. In answer to your new question, the verification mechanism actually increases both the credibility of the elections and the security of the elections, because, if there is any error in the system itself, the validation process will become operationally aware of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U61	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U62	Thank you. Good performer! When the system was hacked in Washington, it was the Internet vote that was used, not the machine vote, as you said. But why, for example, has Finland given up e-elections, why has Germany and many other countries also done so?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U63	Thank you. As we all know, there are no IDs in America that allow data to be encrypted on a rolling basis. As a result, only passwords will be used to log in to online banks. Of course, you can copy these passwords. As I mentioned, no system is protected from a major attack. As regards the experience of other countries, e-elections have been organised in Norway, for example. I am quite sure that Estonia's experiences are quite valuable and that in time e-elections will be held in other countries as well. The problem with other countries is often that they do not have universal authentication mechanisms such as our ID card and that is why it is just technically more difficult. But I know that many countries are considering this possibility. This was discussed in the e-election working group and the initiator of the draft is well aware of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U64	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U65	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Colleagues mentioned the example of an airplane several times. If we imagine this non-positive test with the plane and the passengers, it's understandable what this is minus. But what do you think if, in the elections, as you said, the system is tested with a minus result, how will the electoral commission behave? So what do we do? Are we going to have another election? How many resources would you estimate would be taken by such a negative test?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U66	Thank you. This was not mentioned in the Commission, but in my opinion it depends on which side is not working. If the error is purely for verification, it is the same situation as has been the case with the publication of the election results a few times. The system has been down for a few hours, but the election results themselves have arrived safely and there has been no problem announcing them. If the error is in the system itself, for example, which may be apparent during this same test, then of course it cannot be argued that the election results are legitimate. In that case, the electoral committee must undoubtedly cancel the e-voting. If there is enough time, people can vote again at the station, but if there is not enough time, the election results must indeed be cancelled.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U67	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U68	Thank you. Good performer! I saw a very interesting American movie called 'Democracy Hackers' some time ago. In this film, the Finnish IT specialist, the programmer Harri Hurst, who lives and works in the USA, proved that today the technology at our disposal cannot be achieved to ensure that e-elections are secure and reliable. In this film, it was said that during an online vote in Washington a few years ago, experts were able to hack into the system, replacing only a few symbols. In the eyes of the specialists, they did so in such a way that no one noticed, they got control of the votes, and they had the opportunity to substantially change the results of the election. They also left a business card behind. It wasn't until after it was discovered that the system had really been hacked. No one thought it before. On top of that, e-elections were closed in America, and they're all over the place today. Only Russia wants to test them now. How long will this system last?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U69	In America, e-voting uses a separate machine. The analogy you have presented is comparable to the fact that if an apartment can be broken in, you can also break in, for example, a gold reserve. These electronic systems are actually very different. Just because one particular system works badly does not mean that all electronic systems operate badly. I think we all understand that the same way. As far as the Estonian system is concerned, I say once again that it is audited every time before the elections. The voter's application will also arrive shortly before the elections, which means that it cannot be seen in advance. But even a hacker needs some time to attack something. I will vote with a calm heart on the Internet in the next elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U70	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U71	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Since many of our larger countries, which are also stronger IT countries, have given up e-elections, I strongly doubt that our geniuses have completed a system that cannot be hacked. But Mr Maruste pointed out that no tests were carried out on passengers full of planes. In fact, testing this control system in real local elections means, in my opinion, testing the plane with passengers. Our waitress had a suggestion that this be done not with passengers, but with an empty plane. Then why is this being done in a real election situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U72	Thank you. This particular test scheme was proposed by the Electoral Commission. The aim was that if verification does not work, which may theoretically be possible for the new system, then the legitimacy of e-elections will not be affected. This system will certainly be tested quite thoroughly before the elections, but there is still a real difference between one hundred people and several thousand people. I think it gives us confidence that in 2015, we will have a well-functioning, secure and secure verification system in the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U73	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I disagree with you that, in the case of e-elections, our one or almost only strength is that we have an ID card. I think the ID card is one of the weakest links in e-election. It's because the ID card often travels from hand to hand with passwords and no one knows who the devil really votes with this ID card, either the ID card holder or anyone else. We know a lot of stories about this about nursing homes, hospitals and smaller municipalities. The question, however, is as follows. Our constitution says that elections are uniform and secret. Do you think that elections in a precinct, where everyone is under very strict control of the members and observers of the district committee, and e-elections in which no one really controls the electorate, neither observers nor members of the district committee, are the same elections, are these two electoral methods uniform? Second, are e-elections secret? If, for example, one party organises a youth party, everyone is invited to vote together and an election decision is made behind one computer in front of everyone, do you think these are secret elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U75	Thank you. I cannot agree with your argument that no one is checking because, according to the new version of the law, every voter's application undergoes an audit by a certified auditor, which is also carried out by the electoral system itself. If certified auditors, or CISA auditors, who are actually quite few and are very aware, find that there is an error in the system, that is why e-elections may not take place at all. In this respect, this argument was not quite correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U76	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, you obviously didn't understand my question. I asked you that if I went to the polling station, a member of the precinct board would physically check if I was Priit Toobal on the basis of a document. He looks at the picture, looks at the ID card, looks at the picture, looks at the ID card, and then says, "This is Priit Toobal. ' I'll go to the booth alone, no one will be allowed to go there, and then I'll go and put my hand in the ballot box. But in the case of e-elections, neither observers nor members of the district committee will check whether Priit Toobal or Tarmo Tamm sits behind the computer with this ID card.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U78	Thank you. I would like to remind you, however, that a signature with an ID card in Estonia has the same effect as a signature on paper. My subjective assessment is that the same principle could apply to e-elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U79	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U80	Thank you. It's interesting to listen to you. You are saying that everything is very well, very manageable, and that the elections will produce true results. I agree with that, if you say so. But I have a question for you too. If everything is so well, so transparent and so beautiful, why were the hard drives destroyed in the last election days of the week after the election? If a specialist wants to put on a hard drive to see what was on it, it turns out it's gone. Why do we need to destroy the results of electronic elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U81	Thank you. This question, too, is going pretty far from today's subject in my opinion. We do not have this legislative provision in the debate today. We're talking voice verification. There's no way this bill regulates the destruction of hard drives.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U82	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Unlike some of my groupmates, I support e-elections. But it is clear that there is a risk, both in the case of e-elections and in the case of ordinary elections, that is manageable. What do you think is the greatest current risk of e-elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U84	Thank you. In my personal opinion, the greatest risk is that during the e-elections there may be a massive attack that people cannot vote for because the servers are down. In that case, no e-voting shall take place. In this world, this is not out of the question at all. We've all seen that big online environments can be down for a long time. In such a case, such a legal precedent may arise, which cannot be ruled out. I think that's a real risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U85	Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U86	Thank you. Good waitress! I want to clarify the control mechanism. Could you expand our knowledge by telling us who personally or what company controls our electronic election system?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U87	Thank you. As far as I know, the voter's voice control app, which is currently operating on the Android operating system, is doing a company called Finestmedia. I can't tell you who's gonna do it from now on. I think this is a public procurement issue. The voter's application is made again, I hope I'm not mistaken for Cybernetica AS. For example, AS Helmes did the previous solution to the publication of the election results. There are probably more of these providers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U88	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U89	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have a very practical question. My daughter, who is studying abroad, left her ID card at home with passwords. I'll send it to him with a friend, but right now it's in my bag. In fact, it is not excluded that one person has several family members' ID cards with passwords. How do you comment on this possibility in the context of the elections? We were here discussing whether we would give the children the right to vote. If I want to authorize someone to do something for me, I have to go and write some paperwork. There's nothing to do here. What about making your own choice?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U90	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U91	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject the draft at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I am voting to reject the draft proposal of the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 47 members of the Riigikogu in favour and 25 against, with no abstentions. The draft Act amending the Riigikogu Election Act, initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group, has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The third item is closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 11.42 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U92	Thank you. Dear colleague, we know you as a person who works specifically in the field of information technology. In answer to Mr Stalnukhin's question, you went away in your answer, like somewhere. But my question is for you as a specialist in this field. Is it possible to change the election results or not? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the draft at its regular meeting on Monday 15 April 2013. Kristen Kanarik from the Ministry of Justice and Priit Vinkel from the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu participated in the discussion of the draft. At the beginning of the debate, Priit Toobal, representative of the initiator of the draft and member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, explained the purpose of the draft. The aim is to implement electronic voice control in local elections this year. According to the current regulation, this year's elections are subject to a test mode, but the initiator considers this to be insufficient, as the results of this test have no legal implications. The Government of the Republic did not support the draft because, first, it is good practice not to amend the electoral law in the election year; second, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe recommends that pilot projects be started in implementing such systems. The discussion in the committee revealed that according to the current plans, testing and success in the next year's elections will be subject to a voice check in the 2015 Riigikogu elections. Every voter can control his voice, but only the Android app will be ready for the autumn elections, and other options will be added later. To sum up, the Commission did not support the draft and proposed to reject it at first reading (by 7 Commission members, 2 against and 1 abstention). In addition, the Commission decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 24 April later, it was postponed to this day, and to appoint me rapporteur. These decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U94	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, A man named Adrian Lamo broke into Microsoft, the New York Times, and the Bank of America and caused them enormous damage. A man named Jonathan James broke into the U.S. Department of Defense and NASA's network and caused them enormous damage. A man named Kevin Poulsen broke into the FBI network and paralyzed it for quite a long time. Hundreds of such names can be found on the Internet. Can you tell me that there is an electronic system at all, whether in the Department of Defense, banking or elections that are completely safe?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U96	Thank you. You could answer that question for a while, but I'll save you some time. If, for example, the e-election system in Estonia does not work because of attacks, then the electoral commission has the right to cancel the e-election results, so that people go to the station on election day and vote there. As far as the other side is concerned, i.e. theft of data, the structure of the system is such that it is not possible to identify within the system who voted for whom. This means that it is possible to steal the data and votes of voters, but it is not possible to bring them together. The new revised electoral law, in my opinion, creates a very right and necessary obligation for certified auditors to audit the system before the elections. I think it adds confidence to people who may not want to go into technical details themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U97	The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 408 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 82 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds, initiated by the Monetary Commission, 408 has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U98	Let's move on to the second item. The third reading of the draft Hunting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I open negotiations and ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Karel Rüütli for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U99	Ladies and gentlemen, The desire of the Ministry of the Environment to focus the renewal of the Hunting Act solely on regulating relations between landowners and hunters has been overlooked by the main...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U100	Good co-worker, I'm sorry! Honourable Riigikogu, the hall is very loud and buzzing. I ask you to respect the waitress and those members of the Riigikogu who are interested in listening to the speech! Please, waitress! Please give me another half-minute! Eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U101	... the animals living in our forests and the living conditions favourable to them. Although the explanatory memorandum to the draft law describes in a declarative way that the aim is to guide the protection and control of wild game communities in such a way as to preserve the favourable status of communities and the ecological balance between habitats and species, taking into account the expectations of different interest groups and the recreative, social and economic aspects of hunting. In reality, however, the draft ultimately jeopardises the sustainability of hunting game communities. In order for ladies and gentlemen to better understand the nature of hunting, I will repeat the recently published 2012/13. hunting year data. Over 24000 wild boars, over 5100 deer and over 1500 deer, 829 red deer and 5700 cobras were hunted. A successful yacht often requires hours of preparation, good knowledge of forests and nature, and a cost of hundreds of euros. Today, in the forest, the host of the animals is the state, and game is an unmanageable property. So far, on the basis of scientific studies and analyses, the Ministry of the Environment has given hunters the precise task of the number of different species, their gender and age structure. One of the many bypasses of the new Hunting Act is that the scientific approach to hunting, or the chapter on the organisation of hunting grounds, has been removed from it compared to the current law. On the basis of the new regulation, the recommendations will be shared by the Hunting Council, which will not be preceded by scientific work. Wild animals are still a daily part of our beautiful nature and usually avoid contact with humans. Because of the food base's scarcity or growing numbers of animals, animals enter the city and run on the highway, causing tragic accidents. However, all of this is because man himself has violated the natural balance with his desire for gain. We have invaded animal habitats, wanting to make a profit, and consciously keeping the large number of predators small, wanting to minimise the damage they cause. At the same time, we are making a lot of noise about the damage the cloven-hoofs cause to survive. We're not ready to suffer those damage. But it's normal that wild animals live next to us and cause damage. A completely separate question is the abundance of these animals, but it is already a matter of national environmental policy, not of the agreement between hunters and landowners. The greatest failure of this law, which causes the greatest problems, is the chapter on compensation for damage caused by game. The solution of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association and Reform Party has created an unfair construction that puts all responsibility for compensating the damage caused by wild cloven-hoofed animals on the shoulders of hunters and certainly also landowners. Wild game living in the forest is not solely the responsibility of hunters and landowners. A wild animal cannot be completely controlled, nor can a hunter compensate for all the damage caused by foolishness and sloppyness. Are hunting really just a hobby or do hunters also pursue national goals? In the context of social pressure, a hunt for a conscientious hunter or a hunting organisation is not just a hobby, but for many it is already a day-to-day job and a duty. They handle game care through the construction of feed fields and precincts, make sticks or cut targets, prevent damage from land and forest owners, count animals, eliminate beaver dams, etc. A reasonable alternative was the creation of a reserve with limited liability for compensation for damage caused by wild cloven-hoofed animals, in which the State would also participate as the owner of the animals. The Ministry of the Environment, however, wiped out the responsibility and now leaves the hunter with the landlord on the edge of the forest and on the field. Let me give you an example. The moose is the pride of our forests; it is often called a royal animal in Estonia. The moose hunt lasts three months: from mid-September to mid-December. This is the period when the hunter is able to adjust the number of moose. Wild friends also know that animals move around the forest. In particular, elk and deer live in a different place during the summer and winter. They cause damage for a year because they eat. We can imagine a situation where the hunter is obedient and has filled the hunting capacity set by the hunting council. The elk are cattle, and during difficult times they gather together to survive the winter. Seasonal migration brings them from other areas to winter places, or stables. The hunter has done all he can, the hunting capacity has been filled, but the damage has still occurred. The money has to be paid even by a legitimate hunting organization. For what? I fear that such an unthinkable law will result in overhunting animals, because according to the law, living deer (and, of course, other animals living in the forest) are bad. Their greatest fault is that they are living creatures and that in order to exist, they feed on trees, bushes, and other plants. An animal in the forest also causes damage that a hunter has to pay according to current regulations. However, serious problems arise primarily with elk, wild boars, and red deer. Wild boars are somewhat easier because they can be hunted all year round, even in summer, when they cause damage to crops. It is unclear how Estonia intends to fulfil its commitment to the European Union and to keep the large number of predators within certain limits. The size of the wolf population must be 150-250 specimens, the lynx must be 600-780, and the bears must be about 600. All these predators need cloven-hoofs on their food base to survive. The result of overhunting, however, is the attacks of hungry large predators on livestock. Then there may not be exceptional cases when a wolf breaks a dog chained in a farmyard. One thing can be said for sure about the bill: to the current population-centred hunting, this law is disastrous because it leads to overhunting of game. The implementation of this law will deter a simple land and forest man away from the forest, who will be replaced by a wealthy foreign money man. There is certainly a danger of the collective action that has existed in the rural community, mostly men, but also recently more and more women, because who dares to lead or be a member of a hunting society, without knowing how much must be released at the end of the year. Of course, the coalition can be congratulated. You did it, you got the law you promised, and the money became happy. Once again, however, people living in the countryside lost, and certainly animals living in the forest. We can only hope that, in future, we will not have to deal with a bill on the basis of which volunteer sprayers will have to make up for the damage to people after the property of the landlord has been burned, but the sprayers have not arrived in time. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party does not support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U102	I ask Annely Akkermanni, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U103	Good morning, Mr President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen. In the history of mankind, hunting has been one of the oldest ways of obtaining food. Yacht is part of Estonian national culture, which has influenced lifestyles, food tables, tools and customs, beliefs and customs. Information about old hunting practices has now come through folk songs and stories. Western Estonia and island seal hunters knew how to survive in a frozen sea boat for two weeks, what to do when a man falls into the ice crack, and how to use the whole animal product for food and living. Hunting is no less important in our cultural history than choral singing or body culture. According to Estonian law, a wild animal is an unmanageable asset when living in the wild. Hunting animals are our national wealth. Moreover, the Estonian state has made commitments and promises to protect natural diversity in Estonian forests. The handling of the draft Hunting Act has attracted great public attention. This shows that the people of Estonia care about our nature and culture. It's a pleasure. Sadly, when discussing the draft Hunting Act, it was not consensus that was reached, but a compromise was made. The Hunting Act needed consensus, i.e. a general agreement of consensus, no votes against. Unfortunately, the Hunting Act will be adopted as a compromise, with an agreement reached by mutual concessions. However, the Riigikogu in the Committee on the Environment improved in several respects during the procedure of the draft Hunting Act. First of all, I would like to mention the draft withdrawal of the wealthy censorship. The Ministry was invited to do so by the Hunters' think tank and the Riigikogu Rait Maruste. The principle remains that rights are people, not property. Secondly, since the wild animal belongs to the land in its natural, natural state, the main part of the damage to game remains with the landowners. In a limited part, no more than EUR 100 per hectare, the country and the hunters cover the game damage. After all, the real damage caused to forests or crops may turn out to be 10 to 40 times higher than this EUR 100. I therefore consider the opposition's claims that hunters will pay for the losses of land and forest owners in full. People often complain about the fact that the population of wild boars has become very large and even the flower beds under the window of the chamber are confused by pig flocks in search of food. These problems are not everywhere, but some hunters need discipline. The state has a duty to preserve natural diversity. It is therefore natural that the state and hunters participate to a limited extent in the compensation of game ovens. However, it is positive that landowners will be compensated for game damage. Thirdly, I would like to point out that the use of hunting areas has been made for a fixed period, which can be used for 10 years. This should lead to closer cooperation between landowners and hunters and mutual consideration and respect for damage prevention. Fourthly, I consider the archery, the legitimization of one of the oldest hunting methods to be positive. Yesterday in the Riigikogu's speech chair, some colleagues were worried that now everyone can make a bow on the edge of the forest, start shooting marks on animals, and leave wounded animals to die in the forest. However, this is not the case. It was a misleading position. The archery and its safety are laid down in detail in the law. Can I have more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U104	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U105	Thank you. Fifth, the hunters will be forced to shoot. I am pleased that no concessions were made on hunting safety. Sixthly, hunting councils are being re-established, where hunters, landowners and representatives of the state, hopefully also game biologists, professionals in the field, are discussing problems and finding a consensus in the public interest on how to balance the viability of the population and the damage caused. Seventh, I hope that the new law will bring new people to the hunters' ranks. I hope that the Chancellor of Justice's concern will be relieved that all Estonian citizens, who do have permits and certificates that give the right to hunt, will not, however, be able to access the ownerless property. Finally, hunters are mostly very good naturalists, they love nature and they are very large nature lovers who observe the lives of wild animals and have their welfare in mind. In unfavorable natural conditions, they work hard to supplement their diets with their wallets and their spare time. I also point out that today game meat is the most ethical meat. After all, chickens from large farms can never crawl in the soil, nor can cows eat grass in sunny pastures. Many hunters are also landowners. The hunting culture will be preserved if Estonians remain owners of their land, masters of their land. Then they can also hunt on their own land, and our hunting culture will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U106	Thank you. Please ask Tõnis Kõiv, representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The new draft Hunting Act is expected to reach the third reading, or final stretch. Since 2008, negotiations have taken place between landowners' and hunters' representative organisations, which have already been concluded within the previous year's number in 2012, i.e. in 2012. The Riigikogu has, of course, continued to represent these interests during the proceedings. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I think I can say with peace of heart that the draft law has become even better. I congratulate the Minister for the Environment, Jaanus Tamkivi, who initiated the process of amending the Hunting Act in 2008, and Keit Pentus-Rosimit, Minister for the Environment, who has successfully completed this process. I also congratulate the representative organisation of landowners, the Estonian Private Forest Association and the Estonian Hunters Society, who have stood up for the interests of their members and have contributed greatly to the development of the whole sector. I also congratulate Tõnis Lukas, who, as Chairman of the Committee on the Environment at the beginning of the year, initiated the proceedings on the draft Hunting Act, and Erki Noolt, who led the discussions of the Committee with athletic perseverance, Kalle Palling, the responsible judge of the draft, and all the colleagues who contributed to the discussions and proposals of the draft. I would argue that the whole negotiation period, 2008-2012, was as one continuous lifelong learning, a training programme for years. Many principles became clearer, the understanding of landowners and hunters converged. It should not be forgotten that the current hunting grounds date back to the Soviet Estonian era and have been formed mainly on the basis of the borders of the then collective farms. The land was then known to be the country's own and the hunters' tsunami rights were fully in force. But more than 20 years after the end of the Soviet regime, the situation in which privately owned land has been forced into the former hunting area without the consent of the owner can no longer continue. The point of the new Hunting Act is cooperation between hunters and landowners. We create a foundation by law on which a hunting company and landowner can establish contractual relations between themselves. They can agree on the conditions under which a private owner is hunted on land. The agreement shall include rules for the prevention and compensation of game damage caused by game animals. However, if, for any reason, it is not possible to conclude this agreement, for example due to the lack of will of one or the other party, landowners can demand that their hunting company on land be partially compensated for game damage up to a maximum of EUR 100 per hectare. There have been many disputes about this EUR 100. On the one hand, it is considered that the actual size of the game ovens is around EUR 1000 per hectare and that EUR 100 is too low to compensate for it. On the other hand, it is believed that EUR 100 is too much. But it is clear that, if there is damage, both the hunters and landowners must be involved in it. The Minister of the Environment shall approve the methodology, the damage assessment by the accredited agricultural and forestry consultants and the landlord shall inform the hunters in advance of any damage to the hunters. In fact, there are very many rules which regulate compensation for damages and also allow steps to be taken to avoid them. At the same time, the draft law provides for the possibility that hunters can set up a reserve fund to compensate for these damages claims and the State supports the compensation of game ovens. But I would point out that this is a voluntary reserve fund, which is still intended for a situation where there is no agreement. There is no obligation to join the Fund in those hunting societies that have concluded contracts with landowners. In fact, they don't have to. From now on, the most important place to agree on hunting activities is the county hunting council, which includes representatives of landowners and hunters equally, and for the sake of balance, the state also has one representative in each hunting council. The hunting council shall agree on the hunting capacity and structure of wild cloven-hoofed animals as well as on the termination or renewal of the contract with the user of the hunting area... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U108	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U109	...and changing the boundaries of the hunting area. The issues that need to be discussed and agreed in the hunting council are likely to arise in practice. In order to better protect the interests of small-scale landowners, it is legally right to require landowners who own at least 51% of the real estate and at least 51% of the area. The decision of the oppressive majority in the Committee on the Environment that it is time for us, like our immediate neighbours, to allow small game hunting to use a bow. Hunting requires agreements and joint action. The new hunting law creates good prerequisites for this. However, I would argue that in most hunting areas in Estonia there is already cooperation between hunters and landowners, and there is no real basis for many of the atrocities that have been heard here before. Today, after the adoption of the law, we can say that we have again taken a major step towards an advanced democratic civil society, where private property is honoured and the freedoms of members of society are guaranteed. Although this may not be worth repeating, I would say that rights and obligations go hand in hand with freedom. We have lived in Estonia according to the principle that private property is sacred. I am pleased that, after long and fruitful debates, thinking during the occupation will also end in hunting. Thank you very much for your input. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I call on you to vote in favour of adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U110	Thank you. Please ask Aivar Riisalu, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U111	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, A good colleague, Tõnis Kõiv, is currently hanging on a lot of medals for all those who deal with the bill and congratulating them on their hard work. I almost agree with him, except these medals aren't gold, they're absolutely silver or bronze, because it seems to me that they used a little bit of doping. In particular, they used doping to show clearly whose side they were on. If the draft is processed for five years, it will be a very long time. It remains to be asked whether five years of dealing with a single draft law is a progressive sign that Parliament and the parliamentary committees are dealing with the matter in substance, or whether there is a five-year sign that, if there are serious problems, we cannot agree on anything with normal time. I don't want to be a judge here. Honestly, I'm telling you, it's easier for an ex-husband to have this law at least as it is. This five years have allowed us to keep something concrete on the table. Whether this result is really worth more than bronze, I am not sure of that. Voicey interest groups on the street, on the one hand, 15,000 and more hunters and, on the other hand, large landowners in particular, as well as a number of other landowners, are probably not satisfied to the end. I regret that the Central Party's proposal, which was essentially not the result of any political party policy, did not receive support, but meant a broader approach to the state. Who's the country really for? Does the country's role, in the view of the current right-wing government, really mean that taxes are collected and that everyone should look at how they manage? I'm talking about the fund that could have been around KIK right now, and actually would have taken out all the tension of debate that was now left on the forests and meadows. Imagine an armed hunter arguing with a landowner. It's not a question of him using that gun, but this picture is unequal and we wouldn't want to see that picture. The country actually belongs to the people, the people are landowners, and the people are also hunters. This proposal was cynically rejected, although it would have been possible, through an intelligent and normal structure, to actually remove tensions. It shouldn't have been treated like that. I think that we can definitely come back to this fund in the future by amending the law. When it comes to damages, it is said that 100 euros is nothing. If a hunter shoots all the animals he's entitled to shoot, because it has been decided in the county commission that there should be so many of them in the area, these animals and those animals, even though the hunter has shot those animals, there will still be damage. Are we not afraid that because of the damage that the surviving animals continue to cause, the meat price of the hunter's slaughtered animals will be so high that the usual good Estonian villager, who has so far tried to obtain an animal with his smooth-barrel hunting weapon, is now forced to abandon it? I'm a member of the yacht society and landowner too. I know exactly how many responsibilities a hunter has in terms of feeding, membership and whatever, all the way to the equipment. As a landowner, I know who I've been fighting with hunters, very clearly... I think I'll take a little extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U112	I guess it's or it's for sure?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U113	Sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U114	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U115	I've been fighting with hunters, and I've been talking about how I couldn't agree with them lately. Now I've asked them to come back for God's sake, because it's really bad. I would like to say that the talk that we amplified here and did not want to settle this problem delicately, as if the landowners were very sad and, as Tõnis Kõiv said, the collective order cannot be infinitely adequate, because the landowner still needs a hunter. I can't imagine what the landlord's gonna do on the day when the hunters are gone, sitting in the trenches, like he's got a mortar fire because the boars have made a clean hole. Now the bow. There were very passionate arguments about the bow in the Centre Party Group. I dare call the use of a bow innovative. I go into the woods, no one sees me, I have good clothes, I'm like a sniper, I hide silently, I let go. Let's just say I remained the voice of a shouter in the desert. Indeed, we are struggling with the problems of the prose, and archery innovation is once again such a strange thing alongside all of the current problems. Very many good Estonian villagers and women who have to hunt with a smooth-bore rifle because they have no more money, do not understand it. They say that you in the Riigikogu support the successful people who can acquire a bow or whatever. The bow's pretty expensive. Perhaps this innovation should have waited a little while, but today this proposal is on the table. Personally, I think that innovation must be alive, but right now, I am not representing myself, I am representing a party. The sum total is what I'm saying, if something's gone wrong, we should have the wisdom to fix it quickly. But the fact that something has gone a little wrong here and, above all, it has gone wrong that my country does not serve the people that it has been called upon to serve is perhaps the very bottleneck that needs to be overcome quickly. We can still see in real life that it's gone wrong. I think it is very difficult to support the draft Hunting Act presented in this form. I do not know what decision my colleagues will make, but I think they will make a wise decision because it is up to us to serve our people, not to serve our private interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-25_U116	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We will go to the preparation of the final vote on draft 351. Good fellows, I'm gonna put a bill 351 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There were 45 members of the Riigikogu, 39 against, no abstentions. Bill 351 of the Hunting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law. The second item is closed.
