ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and other members of the government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 32 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 69 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U2	Let's go to today's questions. There is only one issue registered, so everyone will have the opportunity to ask other questions later. Let us begin with the question by Mr Helmen Hunt, Minister of Social Affairs, to Mr Rõivas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U3	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of Social Affairs! You will probably also be aware during your ministry, thanks to the press, that many questions have arisen as a result of the misuse of the parking card of a disabled person's vehicle. Have there been any discussions and meetings on this issue in the Ministry of Social Affairs, and is there a plan to change something in this area, to strengthen control or to discuss it with local authorities? What's the status quo?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U4	The decree of the Minister of Social Affairs, which lays down the grounds for issuing a disabled person's parking card, is not very old. It came into effect about two years ago. And indeed there has been a misuse of this card. You are probably referring to doubts about Tallinn City Government that have come out of the open last week. In the press, it was claimed that the disabled person's parking card has also been obtained by persons who have no grounds for doing so. In such cases, it is undoubtedly necessary to verify whether these claims are true. If they are true, then all possible work processes must be checked to rule out such things in the future. At the same time, I believe that, if the suspicion of misuse by a particular official is publicly known and it is possible that he has taken advantage of his position, this should not lead to a change in the over-estonian regime. There is no need to automatically make it harder for all disabled people to get a parking card.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U5	Please, Mr Küttt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U6	Mr. Minister! I was not referring to what happened in Tallinn, but I was referring to it as a good thing that your colleague, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Mr Parts, has also come to the hall, that the Social Democratic Party has submitted a draft amendment to the Traffic Act. Our proposal concerns the problem that these parking cards do not apply in private car parks. Many hospitals and other health care institutions have private parks around them, and they get a card that gives them the right to park free of charge in public car parks, in good case within 15 minutes, after which you have to pay. We have the answer that the government does not support this bill. Has the Ministry of Social Affairs discussed this problem in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs? Have you been involved in solving this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U7	I am pleased that you can ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications directly today about the amendment of the traffic law. But as far as parking around hospitals is concerned, there are not only paid car parks but also disabled areas where people who have this right can, of course, park for free. The only parking option is not at all in a paid parking lot. I also know that there is such a practice. A person goes to a paid car park, but he proves that for one reason or another, he was unable to park in a disabled area with a corresponding parking permit. In this case, an exception has been granted, a person is allowed to park there and a coupon is given to him and can still be parked in a paid parking lot free of charge. Such issues will certainly be resolved, I believe, in the medical facilities in a reasonable way. At the same time, I call for other bodies around which there are no invalids to certainly create these places, because access to public buildings for persons with reduced mobility and very strong visual impairments is very, very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U8	Please, Mr Küttt, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U9	Once again, I ask the question whether you have considered it necessary to have a round table on this issue. You agree that sometimes people with special needs are punished, even though the vehicle that drove them or their personal car could have been parked free of charge. They're gonna get a ticket. And these people are also suffering because these cards are being misused. Would it not be worth discussing the proposal that there should be at least two hours of free parking in private parks instead of the current 15 minutes? After all, the reform of your system of support for work ability requires that more disabled people come out of their homes and start working in part time, for example. Do you even see this problem? If you don't see it, the answer 'no' is enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U10	I think there are certainly problems, both with access to private companies and with access to public authorities. It is not only the lack of parking spaces, but also, for example, that they want to be good and they want to build a ramp, but since no person is involved in building it who would have tried to ride a wheelchair up or down somewhere, then the ramp will fall out of danger. The ramp can also lead to a wall that may not be able to turn by in a wheelchair. These topics are constantly dealt with in the Ministry of Social Affairs, as well as the Estonian Association of Persons with Disabilities and the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People have performed several initiatives. I very much agree that all public organisations must set an example in this matter, with all ministries and other authorities, this problem must be solved exemplaryly. We have considered further negotiations on this subject with Riigi Kinnisvara AS, which is building a lion's share of state-owned buildings. The aim is also to involve representatives of people with special needs in building planning. These are not only people with reduced mobility, but also people with visual impairments, all of them could have better access. As regards whether the state can impose requirements on private property and say that you must certainly establish this or another law in your private land, this is a very sensitive issue. I'm sure the minister responsible for traffic law will be better able to comment on that. I guess there's some legal nuances in the game. At the same time, I call on all car park owners, be they private persons or municipal authorities, in any case, to create parking spaces for people with reduced mobility and sight, where parking is always free of charge, not just within two hours.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U11	Now, the questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U12	Mr. Minister! My question also concerns people with special needs, this time on the financial side of the problem. We can see that support for the acquisition of prostheses and aids has been reduced in next year's budget. The Ministry of Social Affairs allocates about EUR 550000 less than this year for the acquisition of prostheses and aids for disabled people. What is the reason for this cut?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U13	I am pleased to say that, as very often, your information is not true this time either. Weeks ago, I signed an order that allocated more than EUR 1.2 million to help people with special needs with internal redeployments. We want to lose the queues with it this year. There shouldn't be any more queues coming up next year, as we've had since the year. We are prepared to allocate additional funding for this year, if necessary, and now further action depends to a large extent on the feedback we receive from rural governments. Our interest is, of course, that all the quite large sums that we have decided to allocate in addition really reach those in need. In addition to having a desire, as well as a real opportunity, to allocate additional funding for the acquisition of aid funds, we are also planning substantive reforms that will help to shorten the queues systematically, to address the cause of this problem a little more. The thing is, the queues are kept separately in every county. There have been situations in Estonian history where there is a queue in one county for some specific aids in half a year, while in the next county there are also coolly available these and other aids. This, of course, results in resentment for people. Now we want to create a central system that essentially solves this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U14	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U15	Mr. Minister Rõivas! In the budget for the following year, the proposed increase in excise duties on alcohol is EUR 20 million. When we talk about people with special needs, about welfare, about health care, it always gets caught up in the money. Will this EUR 20 million go back to some sort of general pile that will finance the construction of embassies in South America or the victorious wars the Americans have made to satisfy their oil interests? Or, as we once proposed, can something be channelled from there to people with special needs or elsewhere in health care? In particular, we proposed that excise duties on alcohol be channelled into the funds of the sickness fund. Are you going to be able to negotiate something from Finance Minister Near or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U16	As you know, not every tax revenue in the budget has a specific purpose immediately determined that this or the other revenue has to cover precisely these costs. But I am pleased to tell you that the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs for the care of the elderly and people with special needs, for the care of health and for the treatment of people, as well as for labour market measures, will increase more than the increase in one of the tax receipts you have mentioned. The health budget alone grows four or five times more, and the pension increase will be several times more. As has been said, to the budget lines for people with special needs, we have planned to find much more money than we have so far. My personal high preference has been that for the special care of people with special psychiatric needs, we will have more than 16% in the budget for next year. This increase is three or four times that of the budget as a whole. This has been an informed choice for me, the whole ministry, and the entire government. We want to make the queues much shorter in this area and lose out in the next few years. We also have significant investments planned to improve the living conditions of these people and thus to increase their self-sufficiency. The summary answer to your question is that the social sector will receive much more support next year than this year, and this difference will be much greater than the increase in the amount of the specific excise duty you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U17	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U18	Minister of Social Affairs! It has been written in Võrumaa's Official Journal that the Estonian state is like a child with special needs compared to its western neighbours, who receives subsidies from the European Union and takes care of himself, but the Estonian state itself has neglected people with special needs. You visited Võrumaa in the summer of August this year and met the director of the Järve School and the mothers of children who complained to you about their concerns. What happens to these kids when they leave the school where they're now in custody? We are dealing with the state budget today, and your area of activity is social welfare. What joy do you have to say to these mothers? What will improve the lives of our children and adolescents with special needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U19	There were a number of topics that we discussed jointly with parents and children in Võrumaa. Indeed, first of all, what happens when children who are either severely or deeply disabled reach adulthood and their parents are unable to care for them anymore, while they certainly need support to cope. Some of them need around-the-clock help, some need much less care. Special care has already been organised in Estonia, which is a service financed by the state. There are very different services for people with different needs. The problem has been that, over the years, queues have emerged to obtain certain services, as the need has increased and people's awareness has also increased. It is also the case that the conditions under which the wards are held have improved considerably, and this has also created additional demand. That's why these queues are formed. Next year, as I have already mentioned, we will specifically increase the amount that allows these services to be provided by 16.5%. That's the state budget money we're betting on to lose the queues. This is also a direct answer to the concerns of their mothers in Võrumaa. For them, this means that they do not have to worry that if their children become adults, whether or not there is a place for them, whatever service one child needs. They will have confidence that if their child needs a service, we have created a place where it is provided.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U20	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee! I think that's the last question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U21	Good minister! My question concerns the use of a parking card for people with special needs. I've been using this card myself for ten years. I drive 40,000 miles a year and park well in many different cities, most of all in Tallinn. During this decade, I've had twice my parking problems: one time here in Toompea's yard and the other in front of Laar's cafe. There have been no more problems. But what do I think we should do? Really, it should be better to check who these cards are issued to. In general, I believe this system is in order. Now, of course, the question is, if it's okay, what do you ask? I will then ask if there is any intention to strengthen the control.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U22	Indeed, it is heartwarming to hear you say, as a very experienced person, that in ten years you have experienced only a few problems. I hope they won't happen again in the future. In the case of the courtyard of the Riigikogu, as far as I know, the issue has been resolved. As regards whether one person or another has issued this parking card unduly, we actually have quite clear rules for whom it can be given and for whom it cannot be given. Any municipality that issues these cards must be responsible for having a control mechanism. I do not want to comment on a particular case because it is not possible for me to know whether Priit Kutser is justified to have this card or not. And maybe we shouldn't bring out too much of a particular person. However, it is clear that, when such public doubts have been raised, the competent urban bodies must under no circumstances overlook this. Doubts must be properly checked and it must be made clear whether it was an exploitation of his position or whether he really has the right to hold the card. We simply don't see the size of a person's visions, and that's why I'm not in a hurry to judge anyone. But the doubts thrown into the air are serious enough to be controlled. It must certainly be stressed that once the card is issued, it is issued to a person who specifically has a disability. His escort may only use it if he drives the card holder. If he moves on his own, he must not park on this card for free or at the place where he is disabled.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U23	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U24	Now, ladies and gentlemen, please tell me who you are asking the question. Let's start with my colleague, Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U25	I have a question for the Prime Minister, Mr Ansip. The question has appeared on Interpol's website a few days before the elections. This concerns IRL mayor candidate Eerik-Niles Kross. We heard both before the elections and after the elections that Minister Vaher of the Interior has announced that we will protest to Interpol about this. Do you have any information on who's going to protest? Is this the Minister of the Interior Vaher, the Government of the Republic, the Central Criminal Police or the Prosecutor's Office, and what is actually being protested against?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U26	This is definitely not the Government of the Republic. It is not the competence of the Government of the Republic to resolve such matters. I can repeat what the Public Prosecutor has already said to the Estonian people. The state prosecutor has said that the prosecutor's office does not have sufficient grounds to suspect the hijacking of Eerik-Niles Kross. It would certainly be much more constructive for Russian researchers to cooperate with the Estonian prosecutor's office in substance. The Estonian state is definitely the rule of law, all doubts in the Estonian state are controlled. Our research institutions are interested in finding out the truth, and therefore I do not see any reason why Russian researchers could not cooperate closely with the Estonian Prosecutor's Office. In any case, it would be far more constructive than giving a message to the Estonian people through Interpol through some pre-election demonstrations. In my opinion, this was an intervention in the elections of local governments in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U27	Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U28	My question is to the Prime Minister. You are going to the European Council meeting tomorrow. One important topic for discussion this time is the development of the digital economy in the European Union. In a little more than a year's time, the Digital Single Market in the European Union will already have to work perfectly beautifully. Knowing the uneven development of the European Union in the digital economy, perhaps you can tell us what tomorrow the hottest topics could be?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U29	For its part, Estonia offers the European Union the introduction of the so-called 'one-ask principle', as well as the European digital signature. In Estonia, the principle was introduced that the state can ask its citizens the same information only once, already in 2007. You can't ask for that principle another time. Once the government authorities have received certain information from the citizen, they must exchange it among themselves. We know that this led to the creation of an X-Road, which is a very good platform for information exchange. However, the current situation is that in European Union countries, information between institutions usually moves between institutions, and in some countries it moves very well, but there is no cross-border movement of information. Or rather, it's basically moving as it was in the 19th century. There has been a lot of repeated examples of our Social Insurance Board's evidence. In Estonia, 20,000 certificates are issued each year to take them to Finland. Ship or plane tickets are purchased and paper information is transferred from one country to another. In Finland, this information is carefully inserted on paper again into the computer and becomes digital information again. Such a thing should not be allowed in the European Union. We have calculated that the implementation of a single digital signature in Estonia has made it possible to save one working week a year, i.e. 2% of the country's gross domestic product. In comparison with the European Union, it could be said that this means two EU budgets.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U30	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U31	My question is for Minister Parts and it concerns Rail Baltic. As we know, this route will pass through several areas of Estonia in the future and, above all, farmers, as well as other entrepreneurs, are concerned about what will become of good arable land and how their cutting-off will be compensated. My question to you is: has there been a debate at government level on how to save the good agricultural lands that fall under this route? Have you talked to the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U32	Good question! This topic is indeed a topic in many parts of Estonia. The first stage of Rail Baltic planning is currently underway. The main task is to define one, optimal route corridor. We know that the corridors have been proposed in different ways. The first round of discussions is closed. All this work will, of course, include taking into account the various socio-economic impacts and, now, after the public consultations that have taken place in the places that this route concerns, we are waiting for the proposals of consultants and experts to address the problems raised. As far as farmers are concerned, it has been said that planners do not take into account the impact on farms and land use. Surely this must be taken into account! This is definitely one of the starting points. I think that it will become more concrete when the next planning phase begins, focusing on one particular corridor with all its specific features. My personal view is that, of course, a route with minimal negative socio-economic effects should be developed. It's in all our interests. At the same time, it is clear that there is probably no ideal option, so that Rail Baltic will not harm anyone's interests, but we will try to do so. At government or ministerial level, it is now early to intervene in resolving one or another particular issue. We want to give planners the opportunity to work, to discuss the matter with communities, and if the choices come to our table, then we can think about it further.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U33	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U34	My question is to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. Minister, for many years now we are talking about renovating the Jõhvi railway station, and that is my question. Can you tell me how long this preparatory work will last? Shall we tear down this house and take the station building somewhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U35	Good question! If memory doesn't fool me, I might be wrong right now, then it belongs to the city of Jõhvi, the municipality of Jõhvi. If not, I think that Estonian Railway could propose that it be handed over to the municipality. In its current form, this station building is not for a very large purpose from the railway point of view. In many parts of Estonia, buildings of historical value have been found, and many railway buildings have certainly found good new uses in cooperation with local governments or private companies. It seems illogical to have a railway company renovating something that it doesn't need.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U36	Please, my colleague Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U37	I also have a question for Minister Juhan Parts. Understandably, I am concerned about the development and well-being of my region as the elected representative of South-East Estonia. In recent years, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Government of the Republic as a whole have very much supported Russian border municipalities with additional funding for the maintenance and construction of local roads. We are going to talk here today about the state budget for next year. Be nice and tell us whether this year there are plans to support border municipalities in maintaining the road network and, if so, how much money we are talking about!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U38	This is probably about funding the road management of border municipalities, which we have been doing since 2007 on the basis of an agreement between the government and the Setus. We've been doing this for six years. I dare confirm today that the government has, in principle, complied with this agreement. Do you want to continue to finance more border municipalities? I have given the people of the ministry the task of analysing whether, given all other municipalities, it is fair that we have financed more six and seven municipalities in some years. I could answer that question in December. It would be very necessary for the border authorities to give us their concerns carefully. In this way, we could compare them with other smaller authorities and decide whether we should continue for a few more years in this form. So there is no final answer today. We still have to work on this. But I and the government as a whole are pleased that we have fulfilled this agreement, which, let us be honest, has caused little dissatisfaction in more than 200 municipalities. What about next year? As I said, I think I can give a final answer in December.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U39	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U40	Prime Minister! Last week's Question Time, we discussed quite a number of educational issues, and there were a lot of questioners. I would like to come back to the area of education now, although we will certainly ask the Minister of Finance about this in today's budget debate. The budget for next year does not specifically mention the financing of support services, i.e. the payment of fees to logos, social pedagogues, special needs teachers and school psychologists. Quite a number of schools have come up with a question of what will happen to them. Despite the general increase in the budget, not all municipalities are thrilled by the increase in revenue. Quite a number of municipalities have said that they do not have the money to do so. What is the government's position? Are there any separate amounts for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U41	As we know, there is no agreement at government or Riigikogu level on this financing model. I hope that this agreement will be concluded at Riigikogu level for next year. We have addressed this issue and the government has a fundamental attitude. Support services will have to be financed from the budget in the future, but how much this funding will be and what proportions will be determined will be revealed both in the government and here in the Riigikogu during debates.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U42	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U43	I have a question for you, Taavi Clothes. Our Question Time will completely lose meaning if you almost never answer the question, but simply say what you like to say. I would like to emphasise once again that your response to the funds allocated to the acquisition of aid was demagogic and misleading. I have before me a budget which states very clearly that EUR 5297290 will be allocated for the purchase of prostheses and aids next year. This year this amount was EUR 5839689. So the difference is about EUR 550000. I ask you again: why are there cuts in the funds for prosthetics and aids? I didn't ask about the queues.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U44	Every year, also last year and this year, we have allocated just as much money as the real need has been in addition to the amount originally spent in the state budget. If you compare the two amounts to the one where the additional funds have already been added, and the other, as stated in the budget for the following year, you can really get the wrong impression of a reduction. But I assure you, it's basically not right. And every year, when there's a need, when there's queues, we definitely respond to it. As I said in answering your question, a week ago, I signed an order that will increase the budget for this year by EUR 1.2 million. We will wait for the feedback to be provided if necessary, we are ready to give more money to make sure that the queues disappear completely and that expensive tools reach people as well. You are trying to ridicule the issue of queues, but I think it is extremely important to people that they do not have to wait long enough for their aids and also receive the very expensive aids that are distributed by a separate Commission. A quick shortening of queues for children is particularly important. When winter comes, they may need, for example, special shoes, which are very expensive. But the child's foot grows fast, and next year it may not be the solution for him if he gets these cold without shoes. I call on you to support these changes and to appreciate that we are fully prepared to allocate additional funds in this area. This also applies to next year. And once again, we are also planning substantive restructuring so that these queues cannot be created at all in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U45	Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U46	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Although the election was over on Sunday, passions do not want to subside around them. Regrettably, ever - spreading irregularities, inaccuracies, can be said to be whacking. The news was that the Chairman of the Social Democratic Party has taken up and claimed, as you would have said, that non-Estonian native voters are not in your interest in any way. I would like to ask a two-part question. How is this statement in fact, and has a good colleague, who is not present in this Chamber, understood his mistake and been able to apologise to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U47	Ah, there's no passion or anyone! Yeah, the Forum show really sounded like a passionate name for me. I listened and I didn't recognize myself. And the same date was mentioned that I was then claiming what I had not actually claimed. I have such a good memory that I still remember things that happened the same day. But I also remember that I've never said the Mikser claim before. That's why I wrote a letter to Sven Mikser. Sven Mikser basically admitted that yes, this claim did not belong to me, and almost the claim he attributed to me belonged to someone else. The letter had a title for no apology. I didn't expect an apology from anyone. I guess asking for an apology is that there's no point in asking for it, it's all about parenting, the nursery. If it doesn't come from the heart, you don't have to do it by force. I did not have any passions about this issue, nor did I have any more passion in replying to the letter. Kirgi was only on one show. I wouldn't pay much attention to that. However, as far as the Russians raised by Sven Mikser are concerned, I dare say that we have more or less the same views on this matter. We do not have separate policies for Estonians, Russians, Armenians, Azerbaijani, Finns and other peoples. When we talk about tax policy, we talk about tax policy equally to everyone. When we talk about asphalting roads and streets, we do not mean people of different nationalities who can ever travel or walk on asphalt. For us, everyone in Estonia is equal, and we approach everyone in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U48	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U49	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Good minister! Is it true that your ministry has submitted a request to the European Commission to allow state aid to be granted to the new power plant to be built by Eesti Energia for the production of chipped wood electricity? If I remember correctly, the last amount that was paid to the old power plant of Eesti Energia was 34 million euros a year. In the case of a new station, can these amounts be higher and how many percent of the electricity bill could they be?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U50	I would be happy to answer that question, but I didn't understand anything. What State aid request? If I understand correctly, this concerns investments in Eesti Energia power plants in Narva. The requests made by the State in accordance with environmental legislation to improve our environmental status, both with existing and new energy capacities as a whole, have been made two or three years ago. The European Commission has confirmed a list of investments that will allow a certain free allocation of CO2 quotas over the next seven years. I know nothing about any additional or new initiatives. I hope I answered your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U51	Ladies and gentlemen, since Rait Marustel is the first question, I will give the floor to him. Please, Mr Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U52	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I have a question for the Prime Minister. In the pre-election period, there was a lot of saying that decoy ducks were not suitable, not appropriate. Our colleagues were Social Democrats, and the President of the Republic spoke out quite appropriately on this subject. However, it turns out that a decoy duck, namely Jevgeni Ossinovski, gathered a very remarkable number of votes in Narva. In this light, how do you assess this whole situation and the positions taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U53	My view that every Estonian citizen has the right to stand as a candidate in both local and Riigikogu elections has remained unchanged. I believe that this constitutional right is something that no one has the right to roll over with some sort of duck talk. It seems to me that Estonia is the only country in the European Union where politicians' candidacy in elections has developed some sort of decoy duck theme that denigrates the politician's candidacy. There is nothing like this anywhere else in Europe; as far as I know, this debate and attitude are unique in Estonia. There are countries where the participation of Members in local government councils is restricted, but there are also plenty of countries where the reconciliation of agencies and powers is fully accepted. However, neither in those countries where agencies can be reconciled nor in those where the reconciliation of agencies is prohibited, it is forbidden to apply. Indeed, there is only one country in the European Union in which a former, non-unifying post must be abandoned if you apply for a new post. That is why I fully accept Mr Ossinovski's application in Narva. It was a good initiative, just like the election of all other politicians and ministers of the Riigikogu to select local government units.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U54	Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U55	My second question is also for the Prime Minister. I return to the subject of the European Council. Estonia has stressed that it is very important for us to adopt digital signatures throughout the European Union. My question requires a bit of an estimated answer, I do not know if you want to answer it, but I am still asking. At what time could digital signatures be used in all countries in the European Union? Can you predict?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U56	In some form, the origins of digital signatures exist in a large number of European Union countries, but there is no such widespread use of digital signatures as in other Member States. There are also countries where digital signatures based on ID-cards are unthinkable, because people have condemned any number given to a person in debates. That is why the ID card has been in public opinion for a long time, and it is probably not possible to take it out of contempt with new initiatives. Mobile ID is also known to be used in Estonia, which in my opinion is much more convenient than digital signature based on an ID card. In general, I believe that by now we have achieved a completely new development with our information technology. It may be assumed that if Apple further develops its technology, in the future it will be possible for a person to identify himself using, for example, a fingerprint using a telephone or other common technique. This provides a very good opportunity for the introduction of digital signatures quite quickly throughout Europe. I believe that mobile ID has greater chances of becoming a single digital signature platform across Europe. In any case, this common identity is certainly in Estonia's interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U57	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U58	Mr Parts! I'll continue on Rail Baltic. Some people have said in the media that Rail Baltic could run along Tartu-directed railway lines if it had simply been rebuilt. Does the socio-economic study you mentioned also concern this direction of Rail Baltic, or has it been completely taken off the agenda, or has it not been there?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U59	We have had a permanent discussion with the Lithuanians, which is Rail Baltic. The first stage of Rail Baltic here in Estonia was the Tallinn-Tartu-Valga line, which is now at such a level that it is possible to develop speeds of 120 kilometres per hour. When we talk about this infrastructure's new maximum speed of 240 kilometres per hour, we have based our activities so far on a very thorough study carried out on a joint request from the governments of the three Baltic States and the European Commission. The aim was to analyse such large line differences. In Estonia, our starting position is that Rail Baltic is running on the route Tallinn-Pärnu-Riga, because it is more than 100 kilometres shorter than that of Tartu. It is clear that the realistic nature of the realisation of Rail Baltic is in fact very much dependent on the profitability of the undertaking. Each additional kilometer may give rise to greater dubiousness. This also applies to Latvia and Lithuania. Of course, there has also been a lot of talk about this with the people of South Estonia, with the people of Tartu, and when planning our future transport, we need to think that if the rapid version of Rail Baltic ever comes true, how can it not be compensated for the people of South Estonia, but how can we make it so that in any case South Estonia also wins from it? The alternative option is to give up at all, but then the whole of Estonia loses.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U60	Please, my colleague Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U61	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister! Your views on the European Union's neighbourhood policy are, in my opinion, very honest and sympathetic. They were particularly clear when the Ukrainian President was on this visit. Yesterday, news spread that the European Union's foreign ministers felt that negotiations for an association and free trade agreement with Ukraine should not be opened at this time. How do you assess this position? Are we going to do something about this, or is it still possible to reach a greater consensus in the European Union? I would also extend this issue to a very large number of municipalities in Estonia who are very grateful to cooperate with the authorities of Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia to help them integrate into Europe. What could be your message to these municipalities? Is it that one is the European Union's dimension and the other here, on the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U62	In my opinion, Ukraine is now facing almost as important choices as it stood over a thousand years ago when it was decided to choose a Christian path in Ukraine. The fundamental choice of Ukraine is whether to integrate, integrate more fully with Europe or integrate more fully with the customs union, Russia. This is a crucial geopolitical decision to be taken at the Eastern Partnership Summit in Vilnius in November. I certainly support Ukraine's accession, the signing of an association agreement with Ukraine and the signing of a free trade agreement. Kiev has been given many preconditions for these agreements to be signed. Ukraine has fulfilled most of these preconditions. To date, there are still some legislative issues, such as the amendment of the electoral law concerning the election of the Supreme Radade and the amendment of the law on the prosecutor's office, as well as the question of Mrs Tymoshenko. The selective trial has not been accepted and, in the case of Yulia Tymoshenko, it must certainly be held that the trial was conducted against opposition politicians and that the law was not applied to coalition politicians in the same way. So there was selectivity. Mrs Tymoshenko's question must definitely be resolved. However, it is not right to reduce everything to one person, either by the European Union or by Ukraine. The future of Europe and Ukraine is currently at issue, and this is much more important.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U63	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U64	Prime Minister! To clarify the previous question, I say that Ukraine still has some quite fundamental matters to decide on. One of them is the amendment of the Constitution, which is not easy for them at all. No agreement has been reached so far with a sufficient number of Members of the Ukrainian Parliament. But I'm coming back to our budget now. I have a very specific question: have you agreed in the government office or at coalition level that, between the second and third reading of the state budget, the model for financing unexpected education will be proposed to the Riigikogu as an amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U65	No, there's no such agreement. But as I said in answering your question, I very much hope that this model will be agreed. They arrive both in the government and here in the Riigikogu. However, the amendment of the Ukrainian constitution that you mentioned is underway. However, the amendment of the Constitution is not a precondition for signing an association agreement or a free trade agreement. The amendment of the Constitution is a broader process and has been launched in Ukraine. To date, the first draft of the Constitution has also been handed over to the Venice Commission, which makes its own comments. No one expects that the constitution of one country should be amended in a way, in a matter of urgency, within a few months. Such preconditions have not been set by the European Union for Ukraine, and I believe that there is no reason to fear that the European Union will ever impose such conditions on some countries. The leaders of the European Union have a very clear idea of reasonable procedural times.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U66	Probably the last question. Please, my colleague Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U67	I have a question for the Prime Minister. I will bring together two issues on my question, Ukraine and education, as has become a good practice in today's Question Time. In your reply, I read a clear message to the Estonian municipalities, who work closely with the Ukrainian authorities and help them integrate with Europe. Their initiative and all the work will certainly be grateful. Now about education. In the Committee on Culture, Minister Jaak Aaviksoo has said that the financing paragraph of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the decree of the Government of the Republic which governs its implementation will be reached in the near future by the Riigikogu after the government's round of coordination has been completed. So we can discuss it and agree on everything in the best way. The question that remained in the air in spring was the cooperation between the two ministries, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance in drawing up this same financing model. Do you dare assure us today that the ministries are working well together and that a clear model from the government will reach us?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U68	I'm sure the ministries will cooperate. I very much hope that this cooperation will be so good that the funding model that will result will also be recognised here in the Riigikogu. However, this model is not yet in place and there are no advance agreements for this. This is probably the model that needs to be the subject of a very broad debate. The more people can say their point of view when they agree on this, the better this model will probably be.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U69	Ladies and gentlemen, our Question Time is over. Thank you very much, colleagues, for asking questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister and ministers, for your answer. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U70	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 6th working week session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. There's no call. Let's move on to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Customs Act, the Penal Code and the Law on the Export, Export and Import of Cultural Goods, initiated on 21 October, Committee on Economic Affairs; second, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Land Reform Act, initiated on 21 October, lead committee, Rural Affairs Committee. The members of the Riigikogu formed an Estonian-Cyprus parliamentary group yesterday. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 78 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 23.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U71	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Plant Protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Law on Plant Protection, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 473. Please vote! 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U72	We will begin the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, please lower your voice. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas! What political group do you represent? Socialist? Please also provide the relevant paper. As representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of Inara Luigas, I would like to ask the speaker's colleague, Mrs Luigas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U73	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I promise I will no longer speak on this issue in the course of this bill. I mean, it's about to go to the final vote. But once again, I'm going to go over the points of pain that will appear when the law is passed. First of all, I wanna get rid of one thing. Igor Taro, editor-in-chief of the Setomaa newspaper and correspondent for Estonian National Broadcasting, claimed in the Eesti Päevaleht that the proposal to amend the law in this way by South Estonia's support groups and MEPs was very inappropriate. He wrote: "Truely, such embarrassing acts are rarely seen in even cynical Estonian politics. ' I say to Mr Taro that the correspondent of Estonian National Broadcasting should not write such superficial articles, all the more so that he is paid with taxpayers' money. I have been a leading judge on this bill, and I dare say that I know much more about it than Igor Taro. First, I want to make a correction. In fact, this legislative amendment is not exclusively aimed at border residents and does not only concern the transport of fuel across borders, but regulates the operation of passengers at the border. These passengers may be Estonians and Russians, but also Germans and Finns. The objectives of the trip may be different, including the promotion of economic, social and cultural relations with Russia. The European Union's directives and regulations offer many opportunities for border crossings to be simple and free of any obstacles. The directive states that fuel can be delivered for own use if it is not to be sold and if the border crossing is by accident. Currently, the border crossing of a Russian passenger is random, Russian passenger can also come by car, fuel tank full, and drive from Võru to Tallinn, for example, and back again and leave their money in a food bar, handicraft shop and elsewhere. For us, it is important that any foreign traveler is rich when they arrive and the more poor they leave money for us, the more wealthier we can develop our lives here. After a change to this law, the Russian tourist would also start operating at the border in a completely different way. I'll try to explain it again. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U74	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U75	Thank you. When a Russian tourist arrives in Estonia for the first time in a car, he comes with a full tank and goes to Võru, Põlva or Tallinn, for example, and then comes back to the border. Next, he must declare the amount of fuel in the tank of his car. The law states that the quantity of fuel is declared in writing. If a person cannot determine the amount of fuel, he will turn to a customs official who will pump out the fuel, determine the exact amount and then give the fuel back to the passenger. This fuel shall be declared and recorded in the database. Why? Because if the same Russian tourist comes to Estonia for the second time, he can cross the border in such a way that excise duty does not have to be paid on the exact same amount of fuel. For example, a Russian tourist has 20 litres of fuel left in the tank, and he has 70 litres of fuel in the tank when he comes back to Estonia, which must be declared. In that case, he shall pay an excise duty of 50 litres. If he does not know the exact amount of fuel, then the exact same procedure follows: fuel is pumped out and measured to determine the amount on which the obligation to pay excise duty is imposed. Only then can Estonia cross the border. I dare say, 'Welcome to Estonia! ' in that case, it's quite embarrassing. I would also like to add that Latvians and Lithuanians are smarter than us. They understand that Russian tourists must be kept and have passed a law that allows tourists to cross the border, a car tank full of fuel, excise-free up to four times a month. As far as Igor Taro's article is concerned, he claims that we who tabled the amendments want to return to the situation that existed last year when the border crossing points were blocked. Believe me, these are two different things! Even then, the Tax and Customs Board had the right not to allow cars with full tanks to cross the border more than once a day, yet this was not done. So it's a work done by the Tax and Customs Board. Go on. The border residents are already concerned about the different treatment of Estonian and Russian vehicles. If the same situation persists that more liberal criteria apply to drivers of Russian vehicles when they enter Estonia and other criteria are applied to Estonian drivers, i.e. their cars will be driven much more thoroughly, then, believe me, there will be more conflicts, confusion and contradictions at the border than at present. There will certainly be official protests, etc. The calculation of the additional EUR 8.4 million to be obtained by these amendments is completely unclear. I am very sorry that many of the South-East Estonian ambassadors left the Chamber during the amendments, but you can correct this mistake today. I call for this bill not to be supported! Let's try it again! I believe that the members of the Reform Party and of the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica also understand that this law does not only a disservice to the border residents, but it inhibits the entire border life. And believe it or not, this is also an obstacle to all those Russian car tourists who are currently driving fuel-filled tanks to Estonia and leave a lot of money here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U76	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Stalnukhin, as representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U77	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am somewhat more pessimistic than the previous speaker, I do not expect to change the reasoning of this Chamber at third reading and voting. But there are some things I should be honest with you. This law is a very beautiful illustration of one of the Parkinson's laws, which claims that bureaucracy is growing by itself. Today, there are some bureaucratic moments that are being introduced into the law that make the work of officials at the border more difficult, as well as the situation of our residents. And it's happening like it's happening by itself! I am not so interested in whether tourists from Russia or wherever they come from are paying more here, I am particularly interested in the people of our country. All the more so, a Russian tourist who books all hotel rooms in Tallinn for Christmas at six times the price is likely to be able to pay for excise duties on petrol. Our group has put forward five proposals to amend this bill. To sum up their point briefly, we think it is reasonable that the first two border crossings should be exempt from excise duty. In addition, the draft should be clear and transparent, leaving aside the discretion of the tax authority. These amendments have not fallen from the sky. Together with the members of the Riigikogu, I was in Koidula at the beginning of the summer, where we spoke with representatives of both the Border Guard and the Tax and Customs Board, as well as with local residents. Their opinions were miraculously consistent; no one wants this discretion. And that is because this possibility could increase the level of corruption. Everyone wants clear rules and quite clearly expects their situation not to get worse. The Centre Party proposed that tobacco products, alcohol and petrol twice a month could be brought across the border free of excise duty, with a single quantity of petrol not exceeding 100 litres. We also proposed to remove in each amendment a margin of discretion that nobody needs, including tax and customs officials. In any case, we will come back to this in the near future. The next draft is already in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, during which we may be able to discuss in more detail how to proceed. Today, I repeat, the Centre Party Group does not support the adoption of this draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U78	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. We can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am final voting on the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic 449. Please vote! 44 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 36 against, with no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U79	Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the first reading of the 2014 draft State Budget Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister for Finance of the Speaker's Office for a presentation. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In order to talk about the budget, we must start with the economy. The volatility of economic development has declined and negative pressures on the external environment have eased, the investment climate remains favourable. The various indicators show that the situation in the European economy has stabilised in recent months. The creation of enhanced economic and financial cooperation, crisis prevention and resolution systems in the European Union, in particular in the euro area, provides a basis for forecasting the continuation of this trend. As a result of the increase in confidence in the European economy, the European Union's GDP grew by 0.3% in the second quarter of this year compared to the previous one, which is the first increase since the fall of six quarters. The forecasts of Estonia's closest neighbours have been brought down in recent months, but nevertheless their prospects are better than the European Union average. The average economic growth of our main trading partners will increase to 2%. All of this also improves the growth potential of the Estonian economy, and growth is expected to be close to the medium-term potential level, i.e. 3.6% by 2014. This indicator is better than the OECD average and significantly better than the euro area average. The growth of Estonia's GDP will be based on the exporting industry and services next year. Increased security of investment and consumption in the private sector also supports domestic demand-related activities. Rapid economic adjustment has been marked by a sharp fall in unemployment close to 8%. Employment has grown rapidly, now reaching boom levels. A growing concern, however, is the lack of skilled labour. Wage growth is the fastest in six years: 6.2%, which, together with the slowdown in the price increase, makes real wage growth a decent 3.4%. The purpose of the state budget is to finance the performance of the state's tasks in a way that stabilises the economic environment. The government abides by this principle and focuses on a structural balance indicator measuring the effectiveness of expenditure, as the whole of the European Union is now doing. We have been able to maintain a small structural surplus since 2009. The structural surplus for next year is estimated at 0.7%. In nominal terms, however, we are still in deficit at 0.4% of GDP, due to investments linked to the sale of emission quotas, Estonian Air's equity tax and compensation for the funded pension. It is also important to achieve a nominal budget surplus, as a stable economic environment requires that the country has sufficient resources to respond to unexpected events. At the same time, the economic downturn and financial transactions have led to the reduction of central government reserves to 380 million euros by the end of next year, or 1.9% of GDP. At the same time, the general government reserves are 6.6% of GDP. Government debt remains at the same level, with no change in its ratio to GDP compared to this year. At the end of next year, the debt ratio will be 10% of GDP, while the statistical impact of the EFSF will be 7.4%. Estonia is still the country with the lowest debt burden in the European Union, with an average of 90% in the euro area. The government keeps the line so that the loan money is not used for running costs. Unfortunately, debt is perceived as a problem too little. However, low debt is not just important for reputation and ranking; debt is a cost trap. On the one hand, it gives birth to unfounded expectations, on the other hand, it is much more difficult to normalise costs than to increase them by borrowing. Third, it leads to interest costs, which reduces spending opportunities in the euro area by nearly 3% of GDP. Maintaining tax policy principles also supports economic confidence. Our tax system remains stable, simple and transparent and with as few exceptions as possible. The Estonian tax system is growth-friendly and other countries are moving towards taxation of consumption rather than production factors and fewer exceptions. This brings us investment and high-wage jobs. Next year the tax burden will decrease to 0.3%, or 32.1%, which is the lowest level in the last six years. True, the statistical conversion of the second pillar plays a role here. In general, this level is close to what it was before. As a source of additional revenue, the government sees the tax revenue not collected so far, which would also have a remedial effect on the competitive environment. In this context, the Riigikogu, together with the state budget, has been presented with concrete measures to reduce the amount of tax fraud and improve the collections. In particular, it is intended to reduce VAT losses. The most important measure is the electronic annex to the VAT return, plus the abolition of the tax credit for private use of passenger cars, the minimisation of excise-free border trade, changes in excise duty on fuel-like products, as well as the limitation of envelope wages. This now concerned all types of tax, higher taxes. An important tax change is also an increase in the tax-free minimum for pensions to the average pension. Next year, the country will have EUR 8 billion to use, which is EUR 349 million more than this year. The increase in tax revenues is 6.8% compared to what was planned for this year, and non-tax revenues are decreasing by 8.2% due to the reduction in foreign currency. Against the background of critics, the state can also cope in these circumstances. The public budget expenditure is planned at EUR 8.06 billion next year. Compared to this year, the increase is 377 million, or 4.9%. Objectively, a small country tends to be relatively more expensive, so our responsibility for directing each euro is greater. We have followed the principle of social spending, which is the largest part of the budget, more needs-based, and have managed to keep the wage costs of the state apparatus at an average level, regardless of the size of the country: 10.8% of GDP. Together with economic costs, the state will have costs of EUR 1.32 billion next year, which is 16.4% of the budget. The increase in the number of public earners has already been replaced by a reduction in the number of years, while we can guarantee the highest wage increase of 5.1% in six years. This will be complemented by additional opportunities in the fields of education, social affairs and culture, with the biggest low pay problem. On average, this is a considerable increase in real wages, while the share of non-employment costs compared to GDP does not increase and the competitiveness of the private sector is not at risk. The minimum wage for teachers will rise by 12%. State investment will support the economy in the coming year with EUR 832 million, which is 17.6% of all investments, which is quite a lot. Real estate investments support the construction sector with an additional EUR 10 million, or EUR 131 million. The rate of renovation is increasing. Compared to this year's budget, the total investment volume will fall to EUR 81.2 million, but in Europe we are probably the largest investor. This fact could sober up those who think that development means borrowing. According to Eurostat, Estonia's general government investment accounted for 5.5% of GDP in 2012, with an average of 2.3% in the European Union. Many large-scale transport projects continue. The new rolling stock will improve the quality of passenger train traffic on all lines. Renovation of tram tracks will be started in Tallinn. Preparation of the icebreaker construction and construction of new ferries with small islands will be continued. Estonia makes the first contribution to the Rail Baltic joint company, which is a step towards the construction of the high-speed rail from Tallinn to the Lithuanian-Poland border. The growth opportunities of the economy are supported by the amounts of EUR 143.4 million for R &amp; D across Europe and EUR 70.1 million for business support through EAS and KredEx. Higher education grants will increase to EUR 135.9 million. More national resources are used for road maintenance, which allows the focus to be more on smaller side roads alongside the Local Register Offices and nodes. From the fuel excise tax, 220 million euros will go to tea storage, 60 million euros from structural subsidies. This year these amounts were 199 million and 94 million respectively. Local authorities will be allocated 10% of the total volume of road funding for the storage of public roads from this year onwards. The opportunities of local governments are also increasing due to own resources, as their income tax receipts increase by 8% to 783 million. The income tax receipts of municipalities also exceed the peak in 2008. The share of the municipal income base will remain in the range of 4.4 to 4.5% of GDP in the coming years. For good reason, the 2014 budget has also been called a social budget. Social and other benefits for people represent 27.7% of the budget, or EUR 2.28 billion. Compared to this year, the total amount of grants will increase by 116 million or 5.4%. The state pays a wide range of social benefits per capita of EUR 1768. Growth is mainly due to pensions, second pillar payments, student benefits, social security contributions for beneficiaries of social benefits and needs-based family benefits. The average pension is again growing at the highest rate of 5.8% per six years, which is a very prominent number at European level. In addition, income support will increase to EUR 90 per month, reducing the number of households living in absolute poverty by around 5000. Critics, as always, attacked the budget before they saw him and talked about things that weren't in the 8 billion, especially the loss of children. The only big loss of children, however, is the loss of our debts. Above all, 8 billion children are at every step of the way, especially with their families. We are not taking children away from our parents; this is not a model of our society, but we are creating the conditions for raising children together. For example, a large part of the 900-million-dollar health fund works first for children, not to mention three quarters of the EUR 1 billion education budget. Of course, children become part of the whole social system. The direct family benefits go to 280 million, or 3.6% of the budget. In full, the need-based family allowance and the additional allowance will be EUR 76 from the third child. Additional support will apply to children living below the poverty line. The additional tax-free income costs 25.7 million, the training cost tax discount of 15 million, the child-related social tax of 55.7 million, and recreational education and youth work directly cost 11.5 million euros. This area, however, is mainly hidden in the municipal income base. In addition, the state ensures initial swimming, supports spending on school lunches and the purchase of teaching equipment, and allocates €1.7 million to the youth sport programme. However, the most important issue in each state budget is its prudence and sustainability, and that is what we have ensured. All in all, I believe that this budget is the best that can be offered to citizens at present, and in many ways it is the best budget ever. Thank you to all those who have contributed to this birth.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U81	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U82	Minister of Finance! The public, as well as the opposition, will receive information on the work of putting together the budget as much as government ministers wish to report to the press. I have here a press release from Urmas Reinsalu, Chairman of the IRL, where he states that the income tax-free minimum has stood still for a long time during the recession and that the OECD has criticised our relatively low rate of income tax-free minimum in its 2011 report. In many other OECD countries it is larger. Reinsalu proposes that as the minimum income tax free in Finland for foreign workers is 510 euros for the first half of the year, Estonia should also set a level of 500 euros per month. Income below EUR 500 per month should not be taxed. Finally, it calls for agreement that in 2014 part of the forecast growth will go to increase the tax-free minimum. Then why didn't you agree with your coalition partner?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U83	The simple answer is that this election promise of the Reform Party had to make room for the coalition partner, which was more expensive. But, of course, I don't know what the context is and when this press release is. I wouldn't like to comment on it for a long time or stick it in the back, for example. Urmas Reinsalu is a member of the government, he knows where the money goes and what promises have been made. Well, the ones that have made him and his party more happy are on top. It is understandable that everyone is fighting for their promises and, ultimately, a compromise is being made in which no one receives 100% of the planned costs. But, yes, of course, I support it. It's a very noble idea. We have now realised this in the form of an additional tax-free minimum for pensions, and we have also left the tax-free minimum for children, which I have already mentioned for the budget. It's pretty big. So there's still a tax-free minimum. As regards whether we should be guided by some average, I believe that our tax system is much closer to optimism than that of Finland. Ours is closer to growth, prosperity is closer to growth. Nor does Urmas Reinsalu wish us any income tax rate of ten percent.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U84	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U85	Honourable Minister of Finance! As we read from the budget about the average wage growth in the coming years, and as you have just mentioned, real growth will be 3.4% next year. The same order of magnitude will be the increase in average wages until 2017. At the same time, the Reform Party promised an increase of 5 to 12% in election promotions. Why the discord? Maybe it's the raise you advertised in fairy tale distances. Where did these numbers come from? There's something else in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U86	I don't know what kind of ad someone's been making, but in these numbers, I recognize both 5 and 12. In fact, 5.1% is the increase in the payroll that we were able to guarantee to the public earners. 12% is an increase in the minimum wage for teachers. There will be an increase in cultural, social and educational resources to eliminate either absolute or relative backwardness. With regard to the relative backwardness, I am thinking, above all, of the education sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U87	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U88	Minister, thank you very much. You spoke at the beginning of your presentation about economic growth. Growth forecast for next year is 3.6%. However, this year it will be around 1%, if not less. Can you explain once more where this optimism comes from? Indeed, our economic growth is what it is, and even greater than in other European Union countries. At the same time, however, you argued that, in fact, things in other countries of the European Union have gotten better and are seeing an increase, but they are not as optimistic as we are.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U89	I've never been accused of both a gruesome reproach and a reproach in too much optimism. However, I draw attention to the fact that the forecasts made are independent. The forecast of the Ministry of Finance has also been accused of excessive restraint rather than excessive optimism. The independent forecast is what it is and must be based on it. There must be no political manipulation in one direction or the other, then it will go badly. Fortunately, independent forecasters have supported this option and my heart is light in this sense. This growth of 3.6% would be good news in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U90	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U91	Minister, thank you very much. This Monday, a draft law amending the basic law of the state budget was handed over in this hall. For the rules of the game to be clear, please state which law will be used to process the 2014 state budget. Is this happening according to the basic law that is currently in force or according to what will be adopted in the future, perhaps amended?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U92	Good question! Formally, it's based on the law that's in force. The new law legitimises a great deal of current practice, which has also been taken into account in the implementation of this budget. There is no contradiction with the current law. So basically, both laws would be the basis, but formally, they are based on the basic law in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U93	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U94	Minister of Finance! A moment ago, we were working on a bill in this hall to regulate passenger operations at the border. Indeed, when tourists from third countries come to the border full of the car's fuel tank, they will have to pay excise duty on fuel on the second time they enter Estonia. With this, the state wants to receive EUR 8.5 million. I'd call it a relatively large sum, but in addition to certain sums, it's a small amount of money. In particular, the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board have not been able to tax fuel-like products, and there are very many tax frauds. The Estonian Oil Association has sent a letter stating that it will therefore lose about 75 million euros a year. What will be done in the near future to get such a large amount into the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U95	Several drafts have been aimed at reducing tax fraud and we have made very good progress in eliminating previous fraud schemes. But the thief is still looking where the chance is, the country is trying to catch up with him. I wouldn't, in itself, take on all the grass-eating and gardening principles literally. That is why we always analyse these proposals. They always have their weaknesses and strengths. The strong point is precisely the market information that market participants offer us, but not the legal solutions that they offer us. So there is cooperation and there has already been results.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U96	Please, Mr Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U97	Minister, thank you very much. In the context of next year's budget, much has been said that local government revenue will increase. Compared to 2008, the share of income tax received by the municipalities will increase and the Equalisation Fund will increase by 2.3%, i.e. the revenue of the municipalities will be essentially recovered at the level of 2008. At the same time, prices have risen by more than 12%, which means that the purchasing power of the municipalities has decreased. Here is the question: how do the representatives of the municipalities view the budget for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U98	Well, that depends a lot on their party affiliation and personality. However, I do not agree with the approach that the government increases or reduces the budgets of local governments, they are like the recipients of alms. Here are the forecasts of how much taxes they receive. The average level of municipalities is in itself good. That somewhere the purchasing power is worse than it was at the best of times is, of course, true. But tell me who will be able to completely eliminate the effects of the crisis. I haven't seen an opportunity so far on a personal level. I'm a long way from it. The boom gave the wrong signal, but its correction has been made, both in public and municipal finances.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U99	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U100	Dear Minister, I think that dealing with the revenue side was the hardest undertaking for you to draw up this budget. My question concerns non-tax revenues, i.e. the transfer of assets. The draft state budget states that it will be possible to make EUR 10 million next year when countries are sold. This is 5 million less than last year, i.e. this year. What's the big step back? Are we dealing with administrative capacity or some kind of decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U101	It is now that the sale of land has not been regulated over time, depending on the situation of the market and how well we can manage the government's demands. There is currently no such burning need to maximise one-off revenues. I guess massive selling will ultimately lower the price. Well, we don't have to push too hard. And it's also such a fire of straw when the land is sold, it's sold. We could also look at one-off costs in the overall process, how well they are proportional to one-off revenues, and not inclined towards the requirement of massive sales.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U102	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U103	Dear Minister, TUT and Estonian Maritime Academy are known to negotiate their accession. Last night the Marine Support Group of the Riigikogu met with maritime experts, including people from the TUT and the Maritime Academy. The fact that the academy and TTÜ need extra money emerged there. This amount, which you have now planned for the budget, of €90,000, will be used to harmonise salaries. They said that in December the Council would decide whether or not to join, but they also need confidence in making investments. This amount will be EUR 8 million for seven years. What do you say to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U104	I'm not the right person to tell them anything. I am not a man in this area and I am not able to assess the quality of the marine academy, the need for it as a separate institution or the need for these investments. But if you were to get paid, you said that wages would be harmonised, then that is a positive message in itself. I've come to understand that joining the marine academy with the TUT means trying to make the structure work. The result of this step does not have to be additional money. It's nice of you to meet interest groups, of course, but I'd rather hear the news that some of them don't ask for money. I'm sure everyone asks if they can, so your support teams still have to look at reality. We have advised our group to this big hall I cannot so directly say.. that it is not quite the case that, on the basis of some first, second and third dimensions, we are putting public finances in place, and then there will be fourth, fifth, sixth groups of friends and other associations that, irrespective of the general rules, have their own rules for asking for and spending money. It just doesn't work! There must be smooth cooperation, not just by walking through the door and saying, "Give me more money now if you have a budget together." But, of course, you could be answered in detail by the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U105	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U106	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The political groups of the Riigikogu and the Committee on Monetary Affairs received a referral from the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, in which they make some proposals. For example, the budget for the following year would provide for the restoration of the local government's income base, the share of personal income tax received by municipalities would be 12,13% and the compensation fund would amount to approximately 94 million euros. Of course, this bill that we are currently dealing with does not find it. What is your prognosis for how long is the situation where the government and local authorities are unable to find a common language?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U107	It would actually be bad if they found a common language. Municipalities must be a balancing force or, in a sense, an enabling force for the central government. However, I cannot accept from a more general position that municipalities are the most vulnerable social group whose percentage of funding has to increase. This question of money could in itself be commented with a proverb that a good man who asks. I am not surprised that they did not ask for this income base, which was once 11.2% of income tax receipts. (I thought it was 11.2%) We simply went to such unrealistic heights by increasing the revenue base that at one point, as I have repeatedly said, it was no longer feasible. In the past, however, we were not told thank you, and they kept putting increasing percentages on paper until the crisis came, the air went out of finance, and it turned out that one area's priority was not appropriate, it was not feasible. I am not saying that the municipalities are overfunded, but I assure you that the municipality is nothing separate from the country, which we must support. The amount of income tax charged by municipalities increases by 8%. In the context of the current elections, I take it with a little creepy when it is said that the state has taken away the revenue base. In fact, the rich local governments compete first and foremost in Tallinn, but I understand that the capital is not the only one to buy taxpayers and residents together. And then they say the state took away the revenue base. The income base is taken away from the poorer municipalities. I think it's tragic, and I think Narva is also the city that suffers from it. This is unsustainable and the whole system is not open in the sense that money comes from outside. It still comes from the same country, and so it is a bit of unfair competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U108	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U109	Minister of Finance! I'm a little confused, I don't know who to believe! The Prime Minister has said that unemployment insurance cannot be reduced because a new crisis is expected, but as your Minister of Finance, you are forecasting growth of 3.6%. Which one's right? Who should you believe?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U110	The Prime Minister is always right. I merely state that he has not said at the moment that a new crisis is to be expected. So there is no contradiction here. I'm sure you know that too.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U111	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U112	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The delegation of the Municipal Associations' Cooperation Council proposed to increase the amounts for the maintenance of local roads. Unfortunately, the government did not support it. My question has to do with this. Please tell me which costs have been covered by additional resources from excise duties on fuel.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U113	Additional resources from fuel excise duty? I don't know exactly what you mean by them. That money's still going 75% on the road. However, we are in a situation where we need to take decisions on a number of revenue bases that offend car owners, as much has been said, because of the slow start of the budget of the European Union. And the area where the money was missing was the road. That was the biggest uncovered chunk we ever sat in front of. It must be covered, but European money is gone. We need to get the tax money back from somewhere. That is why these difficult drafts, which we are going to discuss today, were essential.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U114	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U115	Good minister! Some time ago, you spoke about the efficiency of tax collection and its growth in the future. At the same time, I note that the staff costs of the Tax and Customs Board will be slightly reduced, but they will decrease, namely EUR 17000. Does this mean that the composition will decrease or what will be the cost of this savings?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U116	That there's a reduction in personnel costs, that's what I need to check. It's kind of a surprise for me, and I don't know what's behind it. Maybe some structural changes, maybe somebody's been made redundant, or that money was in last year's budget. It would, in itself, be good for public finances if we could increase the number of tax officials, but we are in solidarity and we do not impose such proposals very much. Tax reviews would actually bring a lot of money, but you can't really raise personnel. In order to keep others in check, you also need to keep yourself under control. Otherwise, they'll point the finger at us. This has already been done for the reason that we once increased the number of tax officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U117	Please, my colleague Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U118	Minister, thank you very much. The strange situation is with the new model of financing general education. The Committee on Culture is looking forward to this from the government, but it has not reached us. However, this new financing model will in any case have an impact on the budget for next year. Do we know how far it is to coordinate this model? If we knew that, we could plan our work better. However, if this financing model does not come, then the state budget must be interrupted until this model has been agreed on a broad basis, as the Prime Minister said in Question Time today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U119	The model for financing general education has been well developed. But there is nothing to prevent the budget from being handled here, including the basic law of the budget. This model is the subject of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and related regulation. Just in terms of internal information, I say, although I should not necessarily say this, that the positions of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education have approached significantly and we hope to reach an agreement. So this model is coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U120	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U121	Mr. Minister! I will continue on a very close subject. The recent audit by the National Audit Office on the management of education investments indicates very clearly that we do not know how many schools are needed in Estonia. How did you share money in the next state budget in an area for which there is no vision for the development of which, if we now express ourselves a little harshly?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U122	Actually, there's a vision. As far as the National Audit Office's assessment is concerned, I found that the Minister of Education approved it unconditionally, saying that it also supports his vision. All I can do right now is build shoulders and say that this topic has not been avoided for a long time, and now the National Audit Office has come to the aid of what the government has actually asked for: that when deciding about the school network, the focus should be on quality rather than real estate. So it's basically the right thing to say in their audit. Whether all reproaches are fair there, I doubt that the National Audit Office has never done so well. But in general, I am pleased if the two institutions agree and support the attitude of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U123	Dear Minister, You have very sincerely confirmed that it is not good to argue with ministers. My question concerns the development plans. As far as I know, new development plans are being developed in the Ministry of Agriculture. They have an organic food development plan coming up, as well as the development plan 'Estonian Food', which I personally very much support. But why do you not favour it, and why do you not require ministers to have the development plan related to the budget? Otherwise, paper packages are simply produced, the planned activities are at risk and these schemes are often not carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U124	First of all, I admit that talking about money is the disgusting thing a person is closer to. It's the worst thing to talk to your wife about money. It is as if understanding is no longer required from the close ones, and if it is not, it makes it much more nervous than talking to ministers, for example. And it's even easier to talk to you than to ministers. It used to be different, you were a minister yourself. The answer for these development plans is, of course, simple: money numbers must not be entered there. It's like making a budget. Making an economic forecast would be pointless if, in every area, we were to give the country some kind of cost in advance. So, under no circumstances should mandatory costs be recorded there. Some visions, this is what development plans must be drawn up for.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U125	Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U126	We don't even salt that money, it's set up in reserves. This is the most volatile social cost. The deterioration in this area is causing a very rapid lack of money, as we saw during the crisis. Unfortunately, we had to raise the tax rate at the very wrong time. Now we are very careful and the soul is more satisfied when reserves are larger. But how much exactly is this rate going to be, that decision is not in the budget right now. The Unemployment Insurance Fund is not part of the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U127	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U128	Austet Minister! The grant line of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications states that EUR 474000 less will be allocated to the Väinamere Lines. Logically, this should be accompanied either by a reduction in the number of trips or by an increase in the price of tickets, both of which are poor. What's the government plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U129	You're saying there's going to be a decrease? According to my information, there's an increase in dose in every section. Unfortunately, I don't have the bill for the ferry in front of me as a fact, so I'll check it out. If this decrease is EUR 400000, take into account that millions will go there. There has been no fundamental change, I do not know what that clarification is. However, I believe that the Committee on Monetary Affairs also met with the Minister for Economic Affairs, who also gave this answer. In general, I'd rather be alarmed by the fact that all the lines probably had an increase in subsidies. I have this kind of data, and I've seen these figures in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U130	Thank you very much. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U131	Dear Minister, You called this budget a social budget, but there are a lot of spending items in this area that were cut back in the past and have not been restored. I will mention the funeral allowance or the free return of pensions. I have a question about the last one. At present, nearly 11000 older people order their pensions or benefits at home and cost one person €59 per year. At the same time, there are 22000 people in Estonia who allow their pension money to be transferred to another person's account, because they consider the pension delivery fee to be very high. This, however, seems to me to be a rather dangerous solution. We had a draft to change the situation, which was voted down here. Do you intend to restore free home delivery of pensions in the form it was?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U132	Mercy me, I'm not the Minister of Social Affairs! But I'm a little surprised you're defending such a solution. Carrying cash or money cards to someone's home is not the method of this century if there is a free transfer of money and most pensioners are able to use it. Of course, it must be understood that some people are facing a problem. These are very rare exceptions, most of them still have someone who can help them. There is a certain cost limit for society, and it would still be at the expense of pensions if disbursements were made in an unreasonable way. Can't say we're writing money out of storage somewhere. It's still collected from people, its amount is limited. In this case, of course, the transfer should be paid for by the pension fund, for example, it should not be paid for children's benefits. Well, a person thinks it's a practical solution for himself when he orders it. It's not good news, but, as always, life's inevitable.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U133	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U134	I know you are not the Minister of Social Affairs, but I am still asking about the social field. There's a lot of numbers growing, but the proportions seem kind of weird. For example, the increase in family benefits is EUR 67000, while the amount of parental benefits increases ten times more: EUR 684000. Why has the government decided so disproportionately to support raising the child over a year and a half and then to cut child support very severely, even though in fact, the higher costs will come just later when the child grows up?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U135	Mr. Minister! A few days ago, the Society of Estonian Medical Students, the Association of Estonian Youth Associations, the Estonian Parents' Association and several other organisations made joint visits to all members of the Riigikogu. I think you're aware of that. They proposed directing additional money from excise duties to cover the costs of ring-fencing of children. If I asked you where these amounts of excise duty go, I know what the answer I can get: that you do not put labels on these incomes. However, would it not make sense to do so in the case of alcohol duty? After all, the purpose of excise duty on alcohol is to make up for the costs of alcohol in society, not to support the country. It would be very nice, and the budget would look a lot more human if the alcohol excise had such an orientation. Aren't you gonna do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U136	I see a smiling face in front of you who's on TV saying I don't have any feelings at all. What other sex feelings could I have? But I certainly do not agree to take this issue as a major political flag letter. Clearly, we have better opportunities to increase gender awareness than to draw up a budget on this basis. I guess it's just a rhetorical nonsense, whether the budget is gender sensitive or not. After all, it can be said that the amount of pensions goes first and foremost to women, as well as the amount of health insurance costs to women. I just think like that, we haven't knowingly done that count so we don't cross the sexes. But since women mostly live longer lives and have periods in their lives where they need more medical supervision, there is reason to think so. I'm sure that's the proportion to the men. The average pension for women is indeed lower, but as a pensioner, they live longer. The most gender-sensitive principle that can be applied by the government is certainly to avoid gender discrimination in wage policy. We wouldn't want to make it any more complicated. It is still a matter of social attitudes, not of the budget makers. Our analysis shows that gender discrimination is virtually non-existent for people on public pay. We failed to detect a credible degree of discrimination in wage policy. But all the money women spend, I think, is spent right. Of course, a long life must be recognised. Unfortunately, it's going to cost a lot to society.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U137	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U138	Minister, thank you very much. It has been said that economic growth is relatively modest this year, reaching barely a percentage. I am all the more impressed by the statement in the explanatory memorandum that financial revenues will increase by 38.2 million euros compared to the 2013 summer forecast, in particular due to the increase in owner's income. Overall economic growth is poor. What, then, are the super-companies that have had such strong economic growth that the previously planned ownership gains were increased by 38.2 million? What companies can take so much at a time of economic hardship?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U139	I guess you actually know the answer. You know the list of big state companies. This is primarily due to infrastructure, economic infrastructure monopolies. This is the kind of revenue that depends on decisions, it is not just a forecast. You were a little off the subject in the sense that dividends would still be taken from earlier profits. But yes, they are taken and, in order to be adequate in balance accounting, the average limit of recent years is also taken, commercial profits are taken as a limit and investment needs are monitored. I've been talking about a banker on the payroll of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and I'm sure you know who I'm talking about, I have a name on my tongue, Erkki Raasuke, yes, that more dividends can be taken from state companies. Their investment plans have been much more generous over and over again, including their wage policy, much more generous than in the public sector in general. So at one point, when it gets difficult, the amount of dividends to be paid is increased and at the other point they are abandoned.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U140	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U141	Good Minister of Finance! In spring, one of the important issues was increasing the income tax-free minimum. Your coalition partner spoke of this as a firm promise. I wonder whether the increase in the income tax-free minimum was on the table in the spring in the government and whether its implementation is being hindered by an economic forecast which is currently worse than expected, or whether it has not been discussed at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U142	He wasn't on the table like some people said. There's been too much PR around it. There are so many expected figures on the government's table that large extra amounts seem pretty hopeless. We didn't talk about it very long in the spring, and we didn't talk about it much in the autumn. One factor is indeed the economic situation which is worse than forecast. As has already been said, the European economic environment has deteriorated for six quarters and our economic growth has slowed down as well. Another factor is that other spending needs seemed more urgent. The pressure of ministers to protect their costs is very massive. Believe me, it is not pleasant to lure between them and try to be kind in order to add some good news to the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U143	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U144	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U145	Good minister! Our great satisfaction is now also under the harsh hands of the Minister of Finance of Eesti Energia. But here's my question. The Estonian state will probably plan to capitalise Eesti Energia further in order to secure its own funding next year. Shouldn't this suddenly be done from the state budget on the investment line, but sell some senseless things, such as the oil shale project in America, just so that Eesti Energia capitalises itself? It would still be rather strange to live in a situation where we make stupid investments without knowing where, and at the same time, we allocate money on the line of state budget investments to ensure our own funding for various projects of Eesti Energia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U146	First of all, I have no faith, or at least no conviction, that this money is actually invested in Eesti Energia, this 100 million euros. There is an example of this year: a generous general meeting forced into this 200-million-dollar budget, but the real state investment was zero. Everything still depends on specific investment needs. Whether one project or another is pointless, it could be a more specific discussion. This U.S. investment has a profound point. There are very powerful oil shale deposits, it is our long-standing practice and know-how for oil shale. What will be the fate of the project and when it will be possible or most useful to sell it is the question of business analysis. This issue could be separate from how much we need to invest in energy. There is certainly an open question in the US on the ground about how successfully the technology of larger boilers in oil production will be resolved as to whether they will work properly. That's what the future's about. And in the future, these investment decisions will also be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U147	Thank you. Please, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U148	Good minister! The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the Ministry of Agriculture will receive EUR 941144 from its economic costs in order to repay irrecoverable recoveries to the European Commission. From this morning's news, we know that the Deputy Secretary-General of a Ministry was dismissed, and one of the reasons may be the lack of action in the use of euro money. I have a question: what is in the budget for next year, apart from the EUR 941000 on the line of the Ministry of Agriculture, which we have to pay back to the European Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U149	I don't know what to call it. But the practical issue that needs to be addressed over and over is the need to pay back money if someone has misrepresented the costs in European money projects. If we catch up on time, we do not have to pay back money to the European Union budget. These are things that need to be dealt with regularly. I don't know what to say about the Vice Chancellor. I didn't understand why he was hired. At least now he's out of there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U150	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U151	Dear Minister, The European Union authorises the payment of transitional allowances in 2014. The Estonian state does not take this opportunity, precisely because of the resistance of the Ministry of Finance. I will give you one more chance to explain why our farmer is still in an unequal position. Yes, it is known that this situation will equalize by the end of the new financial period, but in the meantime our farmer is still in a poor state. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U152	You mean the top-ups? This is an area where, within the framework of the European Union budget, 50 million additional euro has been raised for the rural fund. In fact, this amount was initially lower. The main reason why it was increased was precisely the need for national support during the transitional period. Thus, 50 million were given, not the prescribed amount, which was much lower. So we have more money in the rural fund for these subsidies than we should have asked for directly. I don't see much of a problem here. You're not the first to raise this issue, but if the budget disputes went so well, then you're gonna have to argue and fight with your fists. The European Union has backed itself up: costs have been raised and it is extremely difficult to get rid of them. They're heading for the fall, we're going for the rise again. Patience! After all, the Estonian farmer is doing very well in this unfair environment and the perspective is very positive. We are moving ourselves, and others are moving in the opposite direction, but essentially it means convergence of subsidies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U153	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U154	Minister, thank you very much. In analysing the results of recent local elections, more has been said about how integration has progressed in Estonia and what the role of the state and government has been in it. That is why I am asking whether any action is foreseen in the new budget to promote integration. I would like to highlight the problem that we have a different field of information and that young people still lack the skills of the Estonian language. What does the budget tell us about integration?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U155	Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about optimism. You optimisticly confirm that next year's economic growth will be 3.6%, but your party partner, former Finance Minister Aivar Sõerd, is not so sure about this. In his blog, he has expressed the idea that this expectation of a growth of 3.6% seems rather bold, given that the effects of the economic recovery in Europe, and in particular in our northern neighbours, will reach us with a delay. Rather, it expects growth of almost 3%. How do you and your partymate feel so different? Can you make it clear to Aivar that this 3.6% is still more likely to be forecast?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U156	We're talking about a 0.6% difference, and that's like a big difference of opinion. I don't know why Aivar writes it. How can it distinguish between an increase of 3,6% or 3,0% if it does not have any forecasting apparatus? I'm sure he's a very talented person, but I'm based on the assessments of those who have a legal analytical apparatus. If I were to start asking the party who thinks what, we'd be on our hands a long time ago. Aivar is a good man, a real admiration! He knows exactly that a 0.6% increase has been overstated. Thank him!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U157	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U158	Good minister! As a liberal, I am very deeply concerned about the shrinking electorate of the Reform Party. The Reform Party is usually chosen by small capitalists, house owners and such people. You spoke today about excise duty on fuel-like liquids. Does this mean that you actually secretly, unnoticedly, have an excise duty on boilers burning for home heating, which basically has no connection with the current excise logic? If that's what you want to do, I'm afraid your party won't live long, but we wouldn't want that, because you're a very good Minister of Finance. Is it true that the excise duty on fuel oil can hit us as suddenly as the non-refund of VAT on cars hit us?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U159	Thank you. I have to recover now and answer something. I cannot tell you where you will find this imminent excise duty and where your logic is that, in the case of fuel oil, the demand for excise duty would be somewhat controversial. It still costs the same logic to take account of the interests of the climate and to use renewable energy. It's just that we don't want to impose extra costs on homeowners. The ideal option would, of course, be to be able to provide investment support to homeowners so that they can get rid of this costly form of heating for more economical purposes. We have not managed to do this, and we have not tried in any way to crowd out this method of heating with additional taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U160	Thank you. Please, Kalvi Tough, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I am asking about grants from non-profit organisations, which really is in the budget. As you said, some are on the corresponding line, some are not. I see that there are very sensible things in the administration of the Ministry of the Interior, for example, the money is allocated to the Estonian Neighborhood Watch. My question relates to the Estonian Primitive Salvation Union. We know how important it is to develop voluntary rescue and how important this umbrella organisation is for voluntary rescue organisations to come up and develop. For several years now, this umbrella organisation, the free-will Salvation Union, has not received any money from the government in the budget. This money has been put into the budget here in the Riigikogu in the course of the proceedings, and they say from the Ministry that it will be put back into the Riigikogu. My question is, how long does the Riigikogu have to put this money into the budget, why shouldn't it be included in the budget already coming from the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U162	Thank you. I don't know why this organization should be so much in the Riigikogu, I don't know. The Minister of the Interior can tell why the Riigikogu has chosen this organisation. Very often, it's just a big electorate interested in it, or a popular title, but I don't know much about it. The Minister of the Interior knows more about making emergency services more voluntary, and some time ago he dared to talk about it. Right now, I haven't heard much more about what he's up to.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U163	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Your coalition partner, led by the Regional Minister, is carrying the issue of administrative reform and has set a timetable according to which things will take place next year. Has this timetable for administrative reform proposed by the Minister for Regional Affairs been taken into account in the government's budget plan and, if so, how is it reflected in the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U165	All ministers are likely to have some schedule and subject matter in their drawer, but the government will have them at the moment they are discussed and confirmed by the government. This has not been done at the moment, we have only read about it in the paper. I don't know how to comment on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U166	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U167	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I understand that you consider investment in integration to be relatively pointless. But do you also consider it pointless to invest in families with children? If you look at the state budget that awaits us next year, there will be no good news for families with children, as the Prime Minister said in Question Time when I asked him. Children's allowance at the same level for 10 years does not increase, there is no grassroots benefit, upper secondary school children do not receive food support from the state, etc. The question is very simple: do you consider it important to invest in families with children or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U168	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U169	Mr. Minister! For the coming year, the social security funds' reserves are projected to increase by around 17%. This need is justified by the average wage growth and the consequent likelihood that, in the context of the economic crisis, disbursements will have to be increased. On the basis of what analyses does the government consider it necessary to increase the reserves of the unemployment fund? Instead, should we not leave this money in the hands of the working people and entrepreneurs? This has been demanded for a long time by both employers and employees. If this money were left to the people, they would feel in their wallets how we are taking a vigorous step towards the five richest countries in Europe. And at all, do you expect a new economic crisis to come before or after we have reached the five wealthiest countries in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U170	First of all, it would not be possible for the tenths to take this step more vigorously. Our steps really are going in that direction, but they will not be much of a boost. The analysis shows that the unemployment fund is somewhat independent, but the government makes a final decision on the optimal rate of payment. As has been said, this is a well fluctuating need for money and at least once we have cut this rate by cutting our finger. One reason for increasing reserves is our caution, our desire to collect money, and the other to increase the need for labour market services. They could be described more precisely by the Minister of Social Affairs, who is the chairman of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, and I do not belong there, explaining the expenses involved. And nothing would be wrong if this rate did not decrease, but the tax to be collected would be vigorously redirected to implement active labour market measures. But we wouldn't be so effective at absorbing money. One minute, this liver must probably be flushed down. We'll discuss it in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U171	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U172	Minister of Finance! In your introductory speech you also spoke about the debt burden and mentioned that EFSF has a strong statistical impact on Estonia's debt burden. How will EFSF affect our debt burden in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U173	It is likely that this can still be said in the Riigikogu. For now, I would say that this decline will come when the repayments are made. A few small payments to a few countries have not yet been made from the EFSF, and our nominal GDP growth is what is affecting this percentage. In general, the effects of the EFSF are really starting to fade, and the exact year should look at the schedule. I've got a year in my head, but I might be wrong if I start answering.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U174	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U175	Dear Minister, At the moment that coalitions are being formed in many municipalities, it is often a keyword that the new coalition is trying to make things more transparent than they have been in Tartu. I am asking about the transparency of the state budget. Unfortunately, it seems that its transparency is decreasing year by year. If a year ago it was possible to see how much money was allocated to the Central Association of Owners, then this figure must now be searched somewhere in the documentation register of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Why is that? Why do many important figures become increasingly accessible to ordinary people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U176	I don't think that number is that important. The organisations in the third sector, supported by the government, are very numerous and it is illogical to put their financial allocations between large numbers at random. More information can be found in the explanatory memorandum. But we have moved towards such a reflection that the level playing field in the reflection is as equal as possible, not so that we are trying to fight a number of budget lines here in the Riigikogu. They used to hang there for a long time when an institution or a third sector organization was arbitrarily evicted from the picture. In general, however, it is strange that the issue of transparency is raised only in the 30th question. It's always been everybody's favorite so far. But how can you see through the folder? How can the budget be an exciting reading? It's actually a lost cause. We have tried to make this document more uniform and, above all, to give a big picture, then a little more precise in the explanatory memorandum. If there is an interest in more specific amounts, this information is indeed on the MKM website, for example. As open countries as Estonia is, there is not much, neither in Europe nor further away, when it comes to providing information. But as a thrill story, the budget will never be, nor will any finance minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U177	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U178	Thank you. I guess I'll have to go to the diner, invest in myself, and then think about it. In general, I loathe such speech that we invest when we throw cash to people. I really loathe it! A person is not an infrastructure. Man is a part of society, families are economic units that save on children in the most recent order. So I don't know the logic of the words 'if we invest in families' lined up. Really, let's go to the diner, invest in ourselves, then maybe I understand what you're talking about. Let's eat full, is that an investment? Families with children need first and foremost the opportunity to raise a young child to be neck-bearing, of course from the beginning to receive health care, then childcare, education and everything else. In my speech, I devoted a long section to the costs for children, stressing, however, that the child is not an independent economic entity, which we must put in pockets full of money or which must be treated as infrastructure in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U179	I also said in my speech that our society is organised differently, not so that the state takes children to raise. Resources are always limited. We focus support where raising a child is the hardest. The main difficulty falls when I stress that, in my opinion, it is the mother who needs to be at home with the child. A father usually cannot physically replace a mother emotionally and at the beginning of a real child's life; after some time, the burden may begin to be shared. But if parents are already in a position to work, then raising a child must still guarantee the income of the family and not the subsidy paid by the state. Then the state's contribution is to guarantee opportunities for childcare, child education, medical care and other services. This has been said so much, it is elementary that the multiplication of child support cannot be an effective model to support children's development. This is unnecessary on the one hand, and on the other, it is too few, but, in any case, the state budget money that could offer parents opportunities to earn money and develop their children would be reduced. There is a country for this kind of joint action. The state is still meant for collective action; it is not a cash machine. The increase in the cost of parental benefit has been caused by an increase in the minimum wage. In itself, we do not know exactly what the number of parental benefits to be paid out is and how much it will be for parents earning a higher salary and how much it will be for those on lower wages. We know that there is a duty to accompany the increase in the minimum wage and that is what made this budget a little bigger. On the other hand, the need for certain social benefits has diminished. When unemployment decreases, the need for both unemployment and income support decreases. I guess that's how they compensate each other. The exact data is found in your papers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U180	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U181	Mr. Minister! You said that next year, the teacher's minimum wage will rise by 12%, and that is twice as high as the projected average wage increase in general. The draft budget shows that there is an increase of 4.7% in education expenditure in municipal and urban budgets. Whatever the calculation, there will be no more than 5% increase in wages per teacher. Could you explain to us where the rest of the resources needed will come from in order to achieve the teachers' wage increase at the rate you mentioned?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U182	No, you can't! And I say it this way directly because, in addition to the fact that I am not the Minister of Education, I do not want to take all the decisions that have been taken to detail. In general, we gave more money to raise the salaries of educators than averaged. Everyone was given 5.1%. As I said, according to our analysis, education, social and cultural workers are the workers with the most acute pay problems and they received a little, about 1.5% more. The exact level of wage increases will depend on the decisions made by the minister in this field. I can't take any responsibility for explaining all this. I don't know everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U183	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U184	Dear Minister, In the coming year, the subsistence limit for the first member of a person or family living alone will rise to EUR 90 per month, with a rate of EUR 72 for the second and each subsequent member of the family. The goal of raising the income limit is to reduce poverty and this is very good, but forecasts for the coming year predict that the minimum cost of a basket will be 91.34 euros at the beginning of the year, plus other costs such as utilities, housing costs, communication costs, etc. How does a person cope? We know that next year he will need at least one and a half times as much money to live.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U185	When talking about income support, you also have to talk about the public utility costs that are paid for. They're pretty good payments. There's a lot of square meters coming together. Unfortunately, I don't have an exact number at my disposal. Surely, income support does not cover all human spending. It should also be taken into account that people sometimes live together, sometimes alone. Income support cannot guarantee or guarantee a cool living. As regards the cost of minimum baskets, etc., the best respondent on this subject is undoubtedly the Minister for Social Affairs. I haven't been doing much of this myself lately. But the truth is that, as a result of raising this border to 90 euros, 5 000 people fell out of the estimated poverty, if I remember correctly. That's a tough word for a year, I have to admit.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U186	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U187	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I've asked you this before, but I'll ask you again. It's been a few years, maybe something has changed in this area. Have you, in any way, drawn up a budget based on the principles of gender-sensitive budgeting? Or maybe you know that some ministry has taken into account the fact that the interests of women and men may be somewhat different and therefore the stakes are different?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U188	I think, unfortunately, excise duties already have labels on them. They go to various organizations. It is a relatively arbitrary historical choice. Some organisations aren't visible at all, and I don't understand why the money's meant to be there, but try to redistribute it! As far as round money is concerned, it would be fundamentally and technically wrong if the children's round money depended on how much their parents drink. It would not make sense that if we achieve a strong reduction in drinking with alcohol policy, then we will also have to cut the round money. There is no connection between these things, it would be wrong practice from the start. Whether it is Estonian cultural capital, the Gambling Tax Council or whatever the artificial one-tax bindings ultimately lead to cost volatility and inefficiencies. Everyone is lucky when they are guaranteed a percentage by law, but it is devastating for public finances and the efficiency of the use of money is poor. I would assign to these areas a former way of independent sharing and a more stable return if it were to ensure some form of gambling or vodka throwing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U189	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U190	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I will return to the letter of the Association of Cities and Rural Governments. There are only two points that mention the proposals. We have already talked about one, the other is about road repair and financing fuel excise. If, as happened between 2008 and 2009, this amount suddenly fell from 40.5 million to 11.5, or even 11.4 million, how could anything be planned, something planned? Doesn't making any plans get pointless? I am asking this in connection with the 4% reduction planned for road repair next year. What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U191	I guess my ears went straight to that question. I feel proud of you, too, that it is wrong to depend on the payment of excise duty. We cannot maneuver if we keep writing percentages into the law and raise them as necessary. There is already a degree of rigidity in the funding of road safety for the rules on the use of euro money. At the same time, the projects themselves are such lumps, not flexible at all. One year much more costs are needed, the other less, but European money cannot be moved to smaller roads. So there's a lot of problems in this system. It is precisely for this reason that we must make taxation of the use of company cars or trade cars fairer, so that the financing of roads is more stable, or, let us say, the cost that goes on the roads would be offset.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U192	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U193	In addition to the political groups and members of the Riigikogu, several organisations will discuss and analyse the state budget for next year. These have already been mentioned in the round of questions and answers. One of them is the Cooperation Council of the Municipalities. In their view, I will now mention education ematics, which should be EUR 3.4 million to guarantee education support services, unfortunately this is not in the draft state budget. How can education reform be successfully pursued?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U194	Once again, reform does not have to mean extra costs. In general, education costs are very high in percentage terms and are constantly increasing. I can't go along with the wishes of all the interest groups and accept these requests for money. It's easier for you in this sense, but I have to submit the entire budget to the government and sign it like it's standing together. As far as support specialists are concerned, these services are not directly a national function. They must be covered by funds transferred to municipalities in the form of taxes and compensatory funds. If 3.4 million is to be taken from somewhere, suggest that the budget law should make it possible for teachers to have a lower wage increase. To put it mildly, I'm not sure it's the right thing to do. It is true that municipalities, whose functions include secondary education, must finance these support services more.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U195	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U196	Dear Minister, The support for home delivery of publications in rural areas under the Postal Law will remain at the level of this year, i.e. EUR 1.278 million. At the same time, the state company Eesti Post has reported an increase in the cost of returning home in the following year 3,4% to 3,7% depending on the zone. Perhaps it would be fair not to leave all this price increase only to the customers of county newspapers. Perhaps the state would take on a percentage or two in solidarity by increasing the support for home delivery?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U197	This is a specific question to which I should check the figures concerned. You can't keep track of all the details. But as an economist, I will comment on it so that the volume of mail delivery is clearly decreasing and it cannot be assumed that if volume decreases, budget financing will increase. After all, it makes perfect sense that if the number of letters sent is reduced, the ordering of newspapers is reduced, the media is moving more and more online, so why should the support for home delivery increase? It would be difficult for me to justify it as an economist. I don't see why. When a postal company changes its tariffs, they have the right to do so. This is probably due to the need to have money to keep the company running when the volume of turnover decreases. I suppose, however, that the volume of turnover is decreasing, although new modern mailboxes have been set up and all that remains. And I guess that brings expenses.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U198	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U199	Mr. Minister! On page 17 of the 2014 State Budget Explanatory Memorandum, the sentence is that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications allocates 28 million euros to local road storage, which is 65% higher than in 2012. Compared to 2013, this money is much less. I would like to know why the explanatory memorandum compares 2012 to 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U200	I haven't made that choice, but I've seen this place, too, and I think the idea is still to open a bigger picture. You're talking about the knocking downs, but the rubles that have come up a year earlier, you're missing out. Not all figures can increase at an ever-increasing rate every year; they are the dreams of socialism. The reason there's no growth is because it's an unfortunate excise tax. In fact, road money should not be so directly and rigidly linked to this excise duty, but if it is, it is inevitable that the deterioration in the forecasts for the receipt of the excise duty will lead to a reduction in the road budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U201	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U202	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In answer to our questions, you use words that there is no resources, there is no money. We don't ask much. We would like the allowance for school lunch to be more than EUR 78 cents and for the child allowance for the first child to be slightly more than EUR 19. What am I talking about? I looked at the unemployment fund's data: in 2010, 2011, 2012 the fund ended with a surplus of approximately EUR 120 million. How do you comment on that, and where are we going to salt this money?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U203	This response would require special preparation. In my opinion, the efforts have still been very great. The problem is, when it comes to collecting votes, the parties will easily stop what they have done. All political parties have also tried to integrate Russian-speaking people at party level, but if there is an election fight, there will be such an easy confrontation that I would not consider my party and, as a rule, your party to be guilty here. But in Tallinn one company went in the same direction, the other one went the other way, and they sucked the support by opposing themselves in one direction or another. It's not a good result, you have to admit. But if there's any chance to change anything, I don't know. If you still see an externally intelligent Russian person on the screen talking like an intelligent parable and finally reaching the point that now there is no bronze soldier, but who's happier than that, yes, I don't know. Both sides would understand that one party, the Estonian company, is certainly happier, but admits that the other party is not. But don't put this whole thing on the government. A lot has been spent, so let's keep this expense from being wasted! What else can I say?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U204	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U205	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister! The acute problem in Estonia is the gender pay gap, which is, of course, the deepest in the European Union. This temple we carry with great shame. Has there been an analysis of the extent to which next year's budget reduces this tragic, if not the cynical pay gap in our society?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U206	Excuse me, what tragic and cynical pay gap? State budget? I would argue that there is no wage gap in the state budget. The pay gap may arise as a result of the error of the head of some institutions, but as I said once, analyses have generally not confirmed that women are discriminated against. The definition of pay gap has become increasingly blurred at all. The more you think about it, the more it seems that career and career choices have not been better defined and it is simply assumed that the choices are the same. But they're not. I admit that, at every level, both in the private sector and in the public sector, there is a risk in the form of false attitudes, but in ministries, it will certainly be monitored jealously so that it does not increase. When I think about where wage increases have been faster lately, they have been more of an area where the proportion of women is higher. One area that has been treated as a priority is education, the other is cultural and the third is social. In all these three, it has not been done because men and women are treated unequally there. There's just an unequal number of women out there, and all of them get a bigger raise. This is not directly included in the budget, but also in healthcare, wage increases are faster than average. I don't know what anybody means by pay gap, you always have to think about it. I've seen these pieces of writing, where you blame the government for not giving a shit, and you say worse. Well, it doesn't matter, it's our practical work, but that's not why we go around with this flag all the time. Practical work is that we do not allow a pay gap to arise. If we see that, in some areas, in this case, indeed, particularly in the areas of women-manned, if that is the case, I apologise for the wages being lower, we have raised wages, but not because they are women, but because they are very grateful work, for which a lousy salary has been paid.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U207	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U208	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Finance! In Question Time, I asked you whether the pension increase of 5.8% was estimated to be the amount that could be raised, or whether it was simply the amount that would be raised. You said it was exactly the calculated amount. Perhaps you have changed your mind today, but I will continue to ask whether these estimates can be compared, because it is estimated that this increase will exceed 6%.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U209	Thank you. Well, who's got the numbers? We have followed the law and have left the budget options even secondary. After all, the pension budget is in hundreds of millions of deficits compared to social tax receipts, and the freeze of the second pillar must be compensated. This rise is within the bounds of the law. A more specific concept can be given to you by Eiki Nestor, who has come specifically to this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U210	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U211	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I haven't been in the hall all along. If you have already spoken about this, please refer to me and I can read the verbatim, but I am asking you now. For me, the strangest item of expenditure in this budget is the allocation of EUR 316000 to the Office of the President to rebuild the fence for the Presidential Palace. I have always respected you as a very rational and pragmatic person and minister. Can you explain how they were able to convince you of the value of this expense? The previous presidents have been able to live without a fence, but Ilves should be set up now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U212	Thank you. I couldn't be convinced. I also could not be convinced by the Riigikogu that some kind of fence is needed against bombs and that parking has to be scattered somewhere in the city. Ene Ergma, vice president, couldn't convince me of that either. But these are another set of security requirements that will be put on society that can't carry them by force, and one minute we'll surrender. That's right. Similarly, we sometimes give up, for example, on a road construction plan and finance some huge projects, etc. Fortunately, it is not a great cost and, fortunately, we have a good President who needs both privacy and protection. Let the fence be there when the police say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U213	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on the state budget is obviously the most important draft that we are discussing in this hall this autumn season. The budget is the main instrument with which the Riigikogu and the government can intervene in the economy. It is also a tool that can contain risks to the balanced development of the economy. That is why a responsible attitude towards public finances is more important when dealing with the draft budget than with other draft laws. Only a financially sound country can ensure balanced economic development and thus ensure economic growth and employment. Despite the fact that our economy is growing more slowly this year than previously expected, the outlook for growth is good. According to the autumn economic forecast, growth is expected to be 3.6% next year. However, as the situation of global uncertainty continues, it should not be expected that revenue growth will increase compared to the forecast. In drawing up the longer-term budgetary forecast in spring, the government set itself the objective of achieving a nominal balance of the budgetary position in the following year, to which the structural surplus of 0.7% corresponded as of spring. However, as of autumn, as a result of changes in the structure of revenue in the light of the new forecast, the structural surplus of just as large meant nominally a deficit of 0.4%. When drawing up the budget in this situation, it is certainly not justified to withdraw from the objectives set out previously in the budgetary strategy. Given the stable state of the economy and the economic growth that is faster than our average in the European context, weakening the budgetary position would not be justified in any way. Increasing the nominal deficit means either spending existing reserves or covering current expenditure with loan money. However, such a prospect would clearly run counter to a responsible attitude towards the future. In a situation where a pretty large proportion of budget expenditure is related to compliance with legislation or revenue, i.e. the spending of this money has already been fixed in advance, resources are limited to finance priorities. On the other hand, thanks to the fact that Estonia has so far implemented a responsible fiscal policy and reached the lowest debt burden in the European Union, interest payments on budget expenditure for the following year are only 0.2% of GDP. For information or comparison, other EU Member States spend an average of 3% of GDP on interest payments, with a considerable share of income. However, in the absence of this cost item, we can finance other areas. A large part of the budget's additional resources can, for example, be directed towards the social sector. Thanks to stable economic growth, wages and social taxes have increased, making it possible to increase pensions by 5.8% next year. The additional income tax exemption for pensions will also increase and the income support rate will increase. Social protection expenditure will increase by 7.4%, or faster than budget expenditure as a whole, and its share will reach 13.8% of GDP. Health costs are also rising faster than average growth. As a whole, the budgetary plan therefore makes it possible to increase people's well-being. The Budgetary Plan allows for an increase of 5.1% in the payroll fund for all ministries, thereby ensuring the competitiveness of the public sector. While Estonia's average wage exceeded the pre-boom level already in 2011, the wages of state employees reached this year. Compared to the Estonian average, the wages of public employees have increased more slowly, but the public sector cannot be the driving force behind wage growth. The ministers responsible for the sectors can, in turn, direct the funds to where... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U214	...the need is greatest. The salaries of cultural workers, teachers and care workers are rising more than average. These are the areas where the competitiveness of public sector wages has been lowest. When drawing up the budget, account had to be taken of the fact that we have reached a time when the total amount of investment will inevitably be reduced due to the completion of projects financed by the European Union in the previous financial period and the start of the new period. Compared to this year, public investment will fall by 9% next year, but investments by the state amounting to 833 million euros will make up a significant proportion, i.e. 18% of all investments in Estonia. These investments will help to support demand in the construction sector. Let the building of the Estonian National Museum, the construction of the Estonian Academy of Arts, the building of the State Archives, the new upper secondary school buildings and rescue poses be named as major objects here. Investments in water and waste management, as well as in the development of the hospital network and the infrastructure of social welfare institutions, should be mentioned. To sum up, next year's draft state budget will support stable growth. Stable growth is ensured, in particular, by continuing to pursue responsible fiscal policies, by shifting the tax burden to pre-crisis levels and by ensuring an environment favourable to business. The draft budget increases people's well-being, raises living standards and improves social security. Further reforms in the field of education. The draft budget makes a significant contribution to research and development; internal and external security is increasing. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like the Riigikogu to take a responsible approach to dealing with the draft budget. The task of the Committee on Finance is to ensure that proposals for amendments to the draft budget, which increase budgetary expenditure, are covered by real sources of coverage and that, in essence, proposals for improvements which are covered by real sources of coverage are dealt with. I wish us all success and strength and a responsible attitude to this work when we are dealing with the draft budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U215	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U216	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns public libraries. In 2012 there were 553 public libraries in Estonia and 378000 and a little after the reader. The books were purchased in more than 320000 units, which, unfortunately, was almost 30% less than in 2007, but in 2014 you have planned only to buy 180000 books. The average price of the book is calculated at just over 10 euros. What is the policy of the current government? Are we going to put people out of public libraries, and that doesn't matter? That they don't read Cartland and maybe read something smarter. How do you justify this cut to people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U217	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U218	Yeah, without it, quite frankly. It was not for nothing that I called this budget the best of all time in some respects. The best thing is that every cent is covered by measures, we weren't bluffing. We did not sell horses to raise pensions, etc., nor did we sell TOP, as was done in the 1990s. There was no such last-minute compromise, there was a very strong last-minute quarrel in the government. That when I was a member of the Riigikogu, you were a minister, I assure you that that was the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U219	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U220	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I see that the transfers to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications include 4.7 million euros for AS Tallinn Airport. It is explained that this concerns a route support programme aimed at increasing the number of destinations by reducing airport charges on new routes. Can this be the result of so-called hidden state aid to Estonian Air, or does it concern the reduction of airport charges for all operators flying between Tallinn and the rest of the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U221	Thank you. I haven't looked at that number. This seems very similar to the financing of security measures, which should comply with State aid rules. The aim is indeed to increase the number of routes and there must certainly not be any discrimination in favour of Estonian Air. It was very subtle of you to find it, but with state aid rules, the Ministry of Finance still doesn't allow us to risk it. This is our area, and as soon as there is an argument with, for example, MKM, it will always be well remembered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U222	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U223	Thank you. First of all, to follow up or comment on the previous question: there is certainly no Estonian Air issue there. This money is meant for all new routes, or rather, for this purpose. On the contrary, my question concerns local authorities and their funding. Although the percentage of income tax to be paid to municipalities after compensation for land tax has not increased, municipalities receive more money as a result of the increase in income tax income as such. At the same time, the volume of the Equalisation Fund is very minimal compared to the period after the cut. However, the aim of the Equalisation Fund is above all to level out regional disparities. Has there been any discussion of the fine-tuning fund in the Ministry of Finance, and can any developments be anticipated in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U224	It is not enough when there has been a debate in the Ministry of Finance, although in spring three things were defined, one of which, I admit, was for me outside any stress. One objective was indeed to increase the fine-tuning fund. But over and over again, this completely inadequate claim for me is that some sort of tax rate and income base must be restored. The revenue base is actually being destroyed by the richer municipalities with their money packs, by luring taxpayers together, which has not been destroyed by the government. The government or Riigikogu has raised this percentage and next year it will not be 11.58%, but I believe it will be 11.61%. Once it was 11.2%, whether it was the lowest level, I'm not sure. So in general, it would be nice to stop talking about the tax percentage, which means talking about the richest, and more thinking about the fine-tuning fund. This has not worked at the moment. One reason is, yes, disagreement, the other is perhaps the dream of achieving a self-contained administrative reform by not keeping the weak. But it's okay for the parties here to argue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U225	Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The question is about financial transactions. The budget explanatory memorandum states in particular an increase in financial commitments of EUR 48 million, but there is very little explanation for this. What kind of loans are they, why and why? Please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U227	Thank you. EUR 48 million. I do not have any more assumptions here than the last few payments of the EFSF and the European Investment Fund's loan balance. I think both should be accounted for somewhere. Are you talking about the central government or are you talking about the general government? In general, lending is carried out in foundations, municipalities, so you have to find this number to define it. Oh, yeah, actually, there's a possibility that in this order of magnitude, the central government will also borrow if it's cash necessary. This option is, but the limit is usually set by the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U228	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U229	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As we know, next year, the new budget period for the European Union will begin, and hence our country's priorities. Has the government discussed such a message that, as we know, sustainable associations and mobility are one of our priorities in terms of meeting the needs of the population and supporting entrepreneurship? I am sure you spoke in this Chamber about major mobility projects during the budgetary procedure. But is there anything regional? Is something changing for those regions that are behind the Estonian average, it is broadband, road connections or something like that, so that all Estonians have equal opportunities?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U230	Yes, it has been discussed. This whole maze of measures has been discussed and these words I recognise, although these things have always been very annoyingly formulated, to which the Riigikogu has also drawn attention. For example, broadband access is available for all these investments. If you want to know more about the expenditure of the European Union budget, it will take some time. Will we ever achieve equality? I hope that equality in a way such as a nuclear bomb and communism will never come, that the country will retain its own and its own advantages in the city.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U231	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U232	Honourable Minister of Finance! You said in your speech that the aim is to allocate 10% of excise duties on fuel to finance municipal roads next year, which is certainly a positive trend. In the negotiations between the Municipalities' Associations and the Government, municipalities have been asking for years to restore a former percentage of personal income tax. This request has also been mentioned several times in today's discussion. Unfortunately, it has not been renegotiated so far. How many years do you think, and could this proposal, which the municipalities are most likely to table every year, be found in the positive attitude of the government? Is there any hope that the situation before the cut in the second supplementary budget at the beginning of 2009 will be restored?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U233	I have already answered here today, touching on one, the other and the third element in this matter. Road money will be 10% of fuel excise for the second year. As far as the rate of income tax is concerned, it is the interest of large, well-rich municipalities. I say it's a destructive wish. What the self-government associations want, I do not know how they have achieved such a large majority there. What principle do they work on? Why do people always come out with this percentage? Why doesn't it come out with a percentage of 2004 or 2005, for example, I can guess that percentage at the time was much lower than it is now. However, that this rate of income tax should increase unbridledly, and that is why everyone else would have to tighten up the gap, and that is not fair talk. It is not fair, either, because they are largely Harjumaa, especially the municipalities of Tallinn, who would receive this money. It would in itself be useful for my electorate and for the municipality where I live. I'd like to talk about that percentage if I were to be self-serving, but I'm talking about the fine-tuning fund. That is what should start to recover first, but we have not reached a consensus on this. 11,61 is next year's rate of income tax, this year it is 11.58 and, in addition, I do not consider any percentage by one hundredth to be sufficiently justified, because it is regionally counterproductive. Unfortunately, this increases the inequality of local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U234	Dear Minister of Finance, there are no further questions for you. Thank you very much for your answer and your endurance! I would like to invite Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, to attend the speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U235	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of the preparation of the first reading of the draft State Budget Act 2014 in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. On 7 October, we kicked off the discussion of the 490 bill when Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi presented as the initiator of the draft the objectives and priorities of the state budget in line with budgetary policy, as well as the development of revenue and expenditure in 2014 in the context of the state budget. As has been the case in previous years, this year, before the first reading in the Riigikogu, the Commission listened to the ministers of the field at its meetings in order to get a more detailed overview of the budgets, changes made in all areas of government, their priorities and problems. I will now give you an overview of the meetings that have taken place. On 8 October, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, Juhan Parts, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, and Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Defence, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, Taavi Rõiva, Minister of Social Affairs, Rein Lang, and Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior and Siim Valmar Kiisler, Minister of Regional Affairs took part in the meeting of the Commission. At the beginning of the autumn session, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance also presented at the meeting of the Commission an overview of the economic situation and the summer fiscal forecast and information on the state's reserves and cash flows according to current data. Between the first and second reading of the draft, the Commission intends to meet with Foreign Minister Urmas Paet and Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder, and we would like to meet with representatives of Eesti Pank separately. Now I am talking about some important issues and issues that were addressed by the Commission. I will be quite frankly saying that almost all the issues addressed by the Commission have been reflected in this Chamber to a greater or lesser extent today. But I'll talk about them again. The Commission started its work on the revenue base. We were given a first overview of the proposed amendments to the VAT and Income Tax Act, as well as to the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Tax Act, which bring additional revenue to the budget and prevent tax fraud. Further discussion of these draft laws will take place in parallel to the state budget procedure. I will also give an overview of the feedback from ministers on the budget and their responses to the Commission. The Minister of Finance mentioned in the Commission that the budget is close to balance and our economic environment remains favourable. The structurally balanced fiscal position of the general government will be 0.7% of GDP in surplus next year. In nominal terms, the budget is still in deficit at 0.4%, but the target is to reach a situation in which government reserves are expected to increase by 2016. There was an interest in the entry into force of the law on the registration of employees, the draft of which should be in Riigikogu proceedings. The Minister said that this was a draft on the coordination round and that the expected entry into force of this law was scheduled for 1 July 2014. Interested in the increase in social tax receipts. This increase is 6.8%. There was also an interest in reducing the tax burden. The tax burden is expected to decrease to 32.1% in 2014 and the forecast for 2017 is already below 32%. In particular, the tax burden will decrease next year, depending on the country's higher contributions to compulsory funded pension for those who have continued their payments. There was an interest in economic growth, which was also mentioned in this Chamber today. At present, the summer economic forecast is based on a growth rate of 3.6%. The Minister of Finance was also in charge of local authorities and related to them. We had a separate meeting on the issue of local governments, on which I will be staying later, but the Minister of Finance also stated that the general income base of local governments has increased and will exceed the monetary value of this crisis next year. The debt burden was also discussed with the Minister of Finance. The Minister said that the debt ratio would fall to 10% of GDP in 2014 and that it was somehow linked to the growth of GDP itself. The Environment Minister was asked what the priorities would be next year. He replied that there were quite a few priorities. Firstly, nature conservation, with emphasis on national parks, but also priority is investment in street lighting and sustainable transport in several cities (e.g. investment in tram purchase). There was an interest in whether and when land re-evaluations were planned, and the last evaluation took place quite a long time ago. The minister replied that the Land Office was working on it, but whether, when exactly and how it would come out of the way, he couldn't tell. We were talking about the sale of land, and next year's budget is set at EUR 10 million. The minister said there would be a land change if it didn't happen again. Plans which countries are sold come mainly from the Land Office. The budget also provides for a land purchase item of EUR 5 million. These are mainly protected land, where land exchange was once used, now buying and selling. The order is relatively long and these operations take several years, but EUR 5 million is earmarked for this in the budget for next year. There was also an interest in a relatively high wage on the Ministry of the Environment's own line. The Minister said that this was an undivided amount, i.e. an aggregate amount, between the sub-offices. If this money is distributed, it will no longer be on the Ministry's own line. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications pointed out that the share of revenue in his ministry was decreasing compared to this year. The main reason is the transfer of dividends and certain companies to the administration of the Ministry of Finance. Costs are in principle of the same order of magnitude as in this year. The government has approved a road maintenance development plan for the years 2014 to 2020. It is important to prepare Rail Baltic. This was about giving 10% of excise duties on fuel for local government roads. As the Minister of Finance said today, this 10%, i.e. EUR 28 million, already exists. Estonian Air was also under discussion in the Commission. The Minister for Economic Affairs said that this year will end with a negative for Estonian Air, while the reorganisation has been completed, and the company is currently active in strengthening its revenue base. Speaking about IT, the Minister said that the main focus is wider, the central issue is that IT must contribute to the competitiveness and added value of all other sectors of the economy. Here is the keyword of the information society development plan. Interested in railway perspectives. The main ones here are freight transport and the transport corridor. After all, we are still in a good situation from the West to the East and vice versa in terms of moving transport flows. The Minister of Justice briefed the Committee on Monetary Affairs on his priorities. Firstly, the judicial reform, i.e. the staff reform of judicial officials, which is set at EUR 1.1 million next year, i.e. the second phase of the reform. Secondly, the implementation of external financing projects, which will increase by just over EUR 1 million next year. This mainly means co-financing and self-financing in the development of prison information systems and the enforcement information system. Next year, judicial psychotherapy, legal aid and real estate investments will also be important. Next year, according to the Minister of Justice, the construction of the Tartu opening prison should begin, the Lubja court building and the new Tallinn prison project should be completed. The Minister of Defence also outlined his priorities before the Committee on Finance: full equipment and training of the reserve army, strengthening air operations, investments in the Viru Infantry Battalion, the Battle School, the Ämari Air Base and the Central Polygon. The level of defence expenditure will continue to be 2% of GDP. Next year, the Minister of Defence envisages an increase of up to 50 members of the Defence Forces. When we asked about wages, the Minister said that there will be no steady increase of a percentage, that wage growth will be differentiated according to the contribution. The Minister of Education and Research gave an overview of his field. Education expenditure is financed by the state and local government. He pointed out the ratio of education spending to GDP, which was already mentioned today. This is 6 to 7% in Estonia, which is considered to be a very good level. He also spoke about teachers' pay next year. If this year the minimum wage for teachers is EUR 715, the budget for the following year shall stipulate that the minimum wage shall be EUR 800. If this year's financial allocation is EUR 915 per teacher, then next year it will be EUR 960. The minister specifically mentioned the subject of free higher education. Universities will receive EUR 17.2 million through this reform and an additional EUR 3.2 million will be provided for needs-based learning support. He mentioned that next year the construction of the new building of the Estonian Academy of Arts will begin, with a cost of about 20 million euros. A very difficult task is how we can start using the European Union's resources. He pointed out the problem that there was a tendency to increase the number of teachers, while the number of pupils and schools was decreasing. On the different salaries of teachers, the Minister of Education stated that since 1 January 2014 tariffs will disappear and schools will be able to take their own decisions on salaries. A 5.1% increase in teachers' salaries means EUR 8.2 million in financial terms, plus 1.5% of structural reforms and redistribution. He also said that, in the long term, the school network needed structurally to be put in place, which is the basis for increased wage growth in the future. The Minister of Education has set the objective that the teacher's minimum wage should be the average wage in Estonia. If so, the teacher's average salary is 20% above the Estonian average. The Minister of Social Affairs gave an overview of his field. The budget will increase by 3.37%. A large part of this is an increase in the public pension insurance budget (47.9%, i.e. an increase in pension income of 5.8% and an increase in the tax-free income of pensions). Health insurance accounts for 27.8%. The budget of the Health Insurance Fund is not yet in place, but the increase is high compared mainly to the increase in the state budget, but this budget has not yet been definitively approved. Priority is given to family medical care, especially to increasing the competence of family doctors. Regarding the hospital network, the Minister mentioned that more efforts are being made to create strategic cooperation, especially in the case of PERH and the University of Tartu Hospital. The amounts spent on parental benefits are currently on a declining trend as fewer children have been born. Income support will rise to 90 euros next year. By the way, its cost to the state budget is actually zero because more jobs have come and are coming and the number of people receiving this support is decreasing. The increase in this contribution in the budget is not strongly measurable financially. Pensions will rise by 5.8% next year, which means almost EUR 20 per month in real life, or EUR 240 per year. It was also about providing community services for disabled children. The following year, EUR 54 million have been planned for several projects to invest in welfare infrastructure. The Minister of Culture said that his ministry's cost increase will be significant next year, so basically you can be satisfied. Much of it goes to ERM. He also brought out the Troubles. In the administration of the Ministry of Culture, scissors are a problem with wages in other areas. The pay base in the cultural field is low and internal restructuring is also not possible to raise wages at the expense of internal resources. He stated that the salary of a cultural worker could be correlated with the salary of a teacher, for example. Another topic on which the Minister of Culture stayed at the Commission was scholarships, which have been discussed in society before. In Estonian law, scholarship is not defined; there is no legal definition. We have paid as a scholarship, for example in sports organisations, about 25% of the fees are paid as scholarships. There are disputes with the IRS. I think that this issue must also be dealt with in the future in the Riigikogu. After all, the beneficiary does not have social guarantees because the scholarship does not pay social tax. The Minister also stopped at motivating the development of culture and sport by means of a tax system. He said that at present the donation of companies is linked to a payroll fund (up to 3%) or profit (up to 10%), but the donation exceeding this amount is already subject to tax. This could be addressed in the future, raising the question of the need for a list of companies benefiting from a tax credit at all. According to the Minister, the National Library's budget is in order, its council is attended by a representative of the Ministry of Culture and cooperation is good. The national broadcasting budget is much more complicated. Public broadcasting is under the administration of the Ministry of Culture, but is not directly curated by it. The Minister stated that the Estonian Olympic Committee had an additional request regarding the Sochi Olympic Games, which, although not satisfied, could be dealt with in the Riigikogu if possible. The Minister of the Interior said that his ministry's priority is human resources, the staff budget is growing. Mostly, this growth (as differentiated as it is) will be an increase in the wages of low-paid workers: drug police, life-saving rescue troops, district constables. The exact distribution will be clear by the beginning of December. The Ministry closely monitors the flow of labour. The Ministry of the Interior is preparing an analysis of the potential impacts of wage and wage differences in similar areas. Next year, on 1 November 2014, the transition to 112 will take place. Rescue capabilities are also addressed, for example, in high-rise buildings. Six ladder cars (over EUR 3 million) will be procured next year. A system of voluntary rescuers has been built, and support will continue. So far, this has happened, indeed, as has been said in this Chamber today, through Parliament. We must definitely talk about this in the future. The emphasis is on prevention. Members asked about the lack of police patrols; they are not always seen everywhere. The Minister said the police are mobile, patrolling where necessary, rather than putting the emphasis on prevention. I'll have a couple or three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U236	Thank you. Please, George Ratas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U237	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U238	In agreement with the President, additional time can be granted in accordance with § 67 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. So three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U239	Got it. Thank you. The Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research, contributes to raising and influencing young people in a positive way. The Ministry of the Interior supports all evidence-based projects which have a real impact on minors and which teach to avoid deviant behaviour. Prevention is the main message that comes from the Ministry of the Interior in this context. The fight against drug trafficking and serious organised crime will continue to be a priority in the Ministry of the Interior next year. The Minister of Regional Affairs said that the overall amount of his administration is decreasing, because there was a large share of euro payments, but one financial period simply ends. Priority shall be given to national dispersal programmes. They asked about the funding of the FAQ. In principle, calls for proposals take place in the context of enhancing the capacity of NGOs, and the CFEL Council plays an important role. It was also about the centres of attraction, how they would develop and how to proceed with this issue. This issue could certainly be discussed in the future. The Finance Committee also met with representatives of local government associations yesterday. The Cities Association and the Association of Municipalities concerned personal income tax, the Equalisation Fund and the allocation to local roads and education support services. These are the issues that had remained as points of dispute in the negotiations with the country. This was about determining the functions of the state and local government. There is a need to clarify what someone has to do, how to finance it and where there are grey zones. Unfortunately, the final protocol has not been signed. It was also said that maybe the municipal income base should be linked to GDP. However, during the debate it was found that the more such ties there would be, the worse it would be in general. There should be no link to GDP. The Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 23 October, today, to conclude the first reading (by 7 and 4 against, with no abstentions) and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments by 30 October at 17:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U240	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U241	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! It follows from the explanatory memorandum to the draft State Budget Act that the net assets of the State have become a net debt. I think it is also partly linked to the European aid packages. Our ESM deposit was 150 million euros. However, there are also estimates that in the near future there may be a situation where Estonia will have to start borrowing to cover the deficit. As I recall, some time ago the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs spoke of the ESM as a financial investment that would earn us interest income. Does this interest income cover our loan interest rate?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U242	I'm gonna start from the beginning. You said that the national reserves had been spent and that they had become loans. No, good Member, the reserves of the Estonian state have decreased, but they have not disappeared. The Estonian state has also taken out loans in the past, for example to create cash liquidity from the European Investment Bank, if I am not mistaken. I think a loan agreement was signed this year. Of course, the conclusion of a loan agreement does not automatically mean that the loan is actually taken. Our revenues have been slightly lower than our costs over the last few years. This means that although the budget is structurally already in surplus, we have a nominally slight deficit. It has been financed by borrowing and is also reflected in our loan portfolio. It is safe to say that, being the country with the smallest loan portfolio in Europe, and this is likely to be the case in 2014, we do not have the fear that the country would survive its capabilities and that we could be threatened with a situation where liquidity would be threatened.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U243	Thank you very much, good waitress. No further questions for you. It is now possible to give speeches. Any requests for negotiation? Please, Aivar Sõerd as representative of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U244	I'm still in charge of the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U245	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U246	The second question is how the Treasury will manage next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U247	Thank you. It is again a technical issue in this sense that the Ministry of Finance must resolve it. He's got to make it. If necessary, the credit limit that the Riigikogu imposes, if necessary, saves, but the budget must be implemented as it is intended. It's not something that's causing a lot of anxiety, we have such professional treasurers. If you want to know something more specifically, it can be clarified in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It cannot be excluded that liquid reserves will decrease by the end of the year to the limit at which the loan limit is to be used, but rather to be cautious about reserves, in case of a particular case. The Treasury has to make it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U248	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U249	Good Minister of Finance! You've already explained the teacher's salary increase from two different angles today. Maybe you'll help the wider audience, and you'll help me in person again. So let's take this separated by 5.1%. You said the Suksukee got to the Ministry of Education, your memory should be about one-and-a-half percent higher. If your memory is accurate, it still accounts for only 6.6%. How will the remaining 12% or 13% be caught, not only by the Minister of Education, but also by the Prime Minister? I mean this EUR 800 as a minimum wage. The difference is 12 to 13%. We're still five to six percent short.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U250	I mean, I was trying to get crazy, but when you called it out at 6.6%, yeah, you hit the target. The rest must be subject to structural changes. As I have said, and as you have said, EUR 800 is a minimum wage. It doesn't have to be an average raise. I do not believe that there can be a 12% average wage increase anywhere in the field. It was just in medicine, and I think it'll be a hopelessly big number next year. If the minimum wage rises by 12%, it is probably an informed choice to prefer this share, but the average can still rise there more than the overall average wage in the country or in the private sector. This is my understanding of the Minister of Education's policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U251	Thank you. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U252	Honourable Minister of Finance! You said in your speech that the government will continue to keep the debt burden small, that we are one of the countries with the lowest debt burden. Have you discussed the possibility of taking out municipal loans during this budget? I mean that 60% limit, the cancellation of which has been postponed until 2015. Have you discussed that the possibility of taking out municipal loans could be increased before 2015? Or has this not been the subject of the budget for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U253	Thank you. Fortunately, the Minister of Finance does not have to justify everything. The number of books never reaches the government table. The smartest answer I can give to why the number of books is smaller is that these books are then thicker than the previous ones. But maybe it isn't. In itself, it can always be said that literary characters who say that most of the literature they produce is actually crap and should be labelled accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U254	It's not my disappointment. I don't see a fundamental justification for us having this conversation. If the state keeps its loan level below 10% and the local government defenders talk about 100% or more, then I do not see any justification for it. I have a much more sympathetic fact that I heard yesterday: the municipality of Viimsi, as a record borrower, had undoubtedly moved its loan burden under our pressure, but still, as a result of efficient work, less than 100% and moving towards the overall goal. There would be no justification for municipalities borrowing each other's winnings and attracting taxpayers from each other. The basic law of the state budget, which I hope we can present to you next week, is based on the same principle that 60% is the overall limit. The more capable are allowed 100%, but not before this agreed year. Finance is shaped with a general balance in mind, and if some sovereigns are pursuing a different monetary policy, for which they have a certain autonomy, then the rest of them must be tightened up and that is not fair. Not to mention that it is not right to put yourself in a privileged position. We do not believe that municipalities should compete in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U255	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U256	Good minister! You have explained to Sven Mikser and to me that structural changes are needed to ensure the rest of this wage increase. As Minister of Finance, how do you feel about the budgetary procedure, where the fulfilment of a clearly quite large promise made to the electoral groups at large, which will certainly bring joy to the wider electoral groups, I am thinking of raising the minimum wage of teachers to 800 euros, depends on the law of primary school and upper secondary school, which is quickly amended between second and third reading? This requires a change in the funding part of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and in principle the entire financing model.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U257	Dear Minister, Since I heard my name was mentioned here earlier, I would first like to express my pleasure at the honorable opposition reading my blog. However, it was my prediction before the growth forecast came next year. If I was wrong by 0.6 percentage points, without the prognosis, my prediction was quite accurate. But that's it. I have a question for the Minister. After local elections, coalition agreements are being made rapidly, and as far as I have observed them, new costs will be planned for the municipalities quite boldly for next year. Does the Ministry of Finance's good and capable forecasting and analysis team also monitor these developments and do these costs represent any risk to the state budget position next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U258	Thank you. What costs are we talking about? I may have been under the influence of the introduction, scared that it is possible that you may have made a mistake by 0.6 percentage points. More like we were wrong, you're so capable. What exactly was the cost risk? Could you give me a hint?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U259	We will talk about this during the next question. Let's ask a second question, and let's move on right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U260	However, I am generally trying to say no. This complaint was predictable because a few days ago, some of the same words were used by a commercial bank, a forecaster. They have actually predicted an exact number like ours, but in the case of the government, we are talking about an optimistic forecast. The prognosis is independent, the government does not point out that it is going to change, because in this case they will be at risk of rethinking, which is illegal under European agreements and, in future, illegal under law, towards raising costs. But we have different forecast data. I'm sure you'll be using the worst estimates in your blog, all of which were at the time when we hadn't yet published our forecast, more like 4%.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U261	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U262	I'd really like to ask this debate if the minister would advise me to read Aivar Sõerd's blog or not, but I'm not going to ask that question. I have a serious question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U263	Next question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U264	As we know, there is a reasonable requirement for amendments to be made that there must be sources of cover. What are the recommendations of the Minister of Finance to the members of the Riigikogu if we were to try to find sources of cover for the expenses from the state budget submitted? Where can we look for them, without fearing that the Minister will say in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that otherwise a very good proposal, but the source of the cover is not appropriate? What are the places where we can find sources of cover?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U265	Thank you. That is not the way to say it, because we have considered all the costs that have been written up to be essential, and that is quite frankly. These have been very difficult disputes, and moving every cent is a serious problem for the drafters. We have done undoubtedly stronger work than one legislative body can actually do in such a short time, given its apparatus. If you really want to change the money, we'll talk in the costaars. You gave it up last time. What the government gives up with a lighter heart is always a piece of government reserve, although the reserve is now smaller than it was last time. But any brave redeployment according to its imagination, of course, tends to receive such an answer from the authors of the bill in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The authors of the bill have always done their work within the limits of the best knowledge and skills and may disagree with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U266	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U267	Thank you. Good minister! In reply to Sven Mikser's question concerning teachers' salaries, you indicated that the more appropriate question would be addressed by the Minister of Education. Partly, I agree with that. But I have a question for you as a member of the government: does a situation where the increase in teachers' salaries is less than the projected increase in average wages in Estonia mean that the position of the teacher, measured in money, does not improve, as has been declared, but rather deteriorate? Is this an accident at work, or was it discussed at government meetings when the budget was discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U268	You're talking about a line of explanatory notes. I don't think it's important to try to agree with you right now. I know that in addition to the 5.1% additional funding granted to all administrative areas, the education, cultural and social sectors gained an additional 1.5%. According to the last wage agreement, health care also gained separate money in terms of public funding. So the potential for teacher wage growth is certainly greater, not less than 5.1%. Moreover, it must always be remembered that we spend a great deal on education in proportion, and it is the will and duty of the Minister of Education to make structural changes there to ensure that money goes to the brain rather than to concrete. There is nothing to be done, there is no other way to improve the quality of education.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U269	Thank you. Please, Jaak Allik, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U270	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I got a pulse on my question about Eiki Nestor's question about the sources of cover. When I was a minister in Tiit Vähi's government and you were a member of the Riigikogu, Prime Minister Vähi always told your far-off predecessor, Mart Opmann, before moving the budget to Parliament, that we would leave one 1.5-2% in reserve, let Parliament share something, then they will leave the basic budget alone. Have you really prepared a budget now without thinking about it, without this 1.5-2%?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U271	I'm not sure that's necessary. It should be checked. So far, we have had an argument with the Minister of Education about whether this financing model, as a regulation, must be the subject of the basic law on the state budget. We have reached a consensus that we do not have to be. It's really a PGS issue. It is difficult to confirm that this regulation is currently interfering with the budgetary procedure, but it must be checked. Maybe I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U272	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Finance! I learned from your answer to the previous question. First, I asked Eiki Nestor, and he told me to ask you because he couldn't answer. It is not a question of the pension coefficient, but of the budget line of the Ministry of Social Affairs entitled 'Inescapable aid and emergency care for persons without sickness insurance'. If it was like 100,000 or a few hundred thousand euros, I wouldn't ask. But the reduction is EUR 7441000. Where does it really go? Even now, money for the unavoidable treatment of persons without health insurance remains low. This amount will be EUR 7,44 million in 2013 and will now be zero. Who's gonna deal with it, who's gonna pay it, and what line is this money going to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U273	That is quite a technical question. There can be no policy change in principle, I don't think so. You have to ask the Minister of Social Affairs. I think he can answer that question pretty quickly. I'm trying to save the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U274	Thank you very much. I'm closing the negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 490 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 490 amendments. 1 p.m. on 30 October 2004
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U275	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, please speak to Sven Mikser.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U276	Thank you. This is a specific promise that is not being fulfilled and obviously is not going to take the initiative here. What is important is that the tax increases that we opposed last year and the year before will be taken as completely natural this year. They have put pressure not only on ordinary Estonian families but also on local governments. The increase in VAT also means a burden on the municipality; the increase in electricity prices means a burden on the municipalities, not only on people. In such a situation, the speeches that were held during the budget debate last year or the year before, could actually be taken out, because this year's budget symbolises a stagnation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U277	Thank you very much. I ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to speak on behalf of Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U278	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a good draft and a good budget. The Reform Party and the IRL governments have reached a budget agreement, having negotiated with different parties. This budget is made in the knowledge that the Estonian economy is moderately optimistic. Although the global economy is showing signs of stabilisation, we need to be responsible for increasing costs. Sustainable growth in people's incomes is a key issue of Estonian policy. This cannot be achieved by taxation, we cannot be wealthy through taxes. Prosperity can only come from economic growth. We need to create a situation where entrepreneurs would be good in Estonia and they would like to be here, they would have the opportunity to increase added value here and they would be competitive. In this case, businesses will also be able to create jobs. If they are able to create jobs, it means jobs for people and tax revenue for the state. To this end, we must contribute to the quality and availability of education and improve access to capital for businesses. The most important thing in the IRL's view is that this budget supports the growth of people's incomes. The measures provided for in the budget are in line with the state's financial resources and are based on the value that people create in their work. The government has been guided by the fact that budget balance targets are not compromised and we do not survive. The government has taken a conservative approach to cost increases. I think the budget will be easier to deal with if we do not live at the expense of future generations. Now I'm talking about wage growth. The Ministry of Finance forecasts a general wage increase of 6,8% next year. From the budget, we can see that the wage fund for people paid from the state budget is growing by 5.1%, which means that the state is not a wage locomotive. At the same time, wages are rising and the state budget is able to find these resources in order to move forward with private structures in terms of wage growth. Public money comes from the income of policemen, rescuers, cultural workers and everyone else working in the public sector. Education needs to be supported in order for people's incomes to grow permanently. All programmes undertaken in the field of education in general education, vocational education and higher education are financially covered. The Minister of Education has confirmed that the minimum teacher wage will rise as a priority from at least 12% in the following year, from EUR 715 to EUR 800. I would like to remind you here that just a year ago, the teacher's minimum wage was EUR 608. The transition to a new funding system for universities and the development of state secondary schools will continue, ensuring strong and selective secondary education in the counties. Wage growth also improves the management of local governments. Of each euro earned, 11.6 cents will be paid to the local government's income next year. In total, the income tax base of municipalities is expected to increase by 7% next year. This is bigger than the growth of the state budget itself. The income base of local governments will be bigger next year for the first time than it was in the pre-crisis period. When it comes to the livelihood of the elderly, it must be said that the pension will rise 5.8% from 1 April next year, raising the average old-age pension to EUR 354. It is known that an additional income tax-free minimum is provided to ensure the livelihood of pensioners. This year, the average old-age pension for pensioners and tax-free income became more or less equal. Given that pensions are rising, it is logical that there will also be an increase in the income tax-free minimum of pensions from next year, otherwise the income tax would eat up part of the pension increase that the state has promised people. This would clearly hurt the sense of justice of the elderly. In order to improve the livelihood of older people, the next year, from 1 April, will be in parallel with an increase in pensions... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U279	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U280	The government will continue to use the unemployment insurance rate that is kept abnormally high to reduce the budget deficit. In essence, this is a hidden income tax, which is all the more unfair, so that wage earners are taxed more than those who live on dividend income. Much has already been said about support for the acquisition of an education in the field of interest, but it is worth repeating. This promise has been written into the coalition agreement, yet it remains unfulfilled. It is extremely regrettable that this measure that develops the talents and abilities of Estonian young people is not, in the view of the government, a priority. There are still many issues that we need to talk about in the budgetary process. These certainly include the principles of local government funding, which the Minister of Finance did not overstate today. But, finally, on behalf of the Socialists, I would like to express my hope that this draft budget can be improved during the parliamentary procedure. To make sure the picture does not look too sad, I would like to congratulate the members of the government on the wage increase that awaits them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U281	Thank you. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Kadri Simson Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U282	Would you like more time? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U283	Thank you. ... plans to increase the income tax-free minimum for pensions by EUR 18 per month. This decision concerns 200,000 older people and saves pensioners' money. IRL considers that one important measure next year will also be an increase in income support to EUR 90 per month. Thus, the number of households living in absolute poverty is estimated to fall by 5,000 households. These measures as a whole are in line with the state's current financial resources. The opportunities for this have arisen because of taxes earned by Estonian people and new jobs created by entrepreneurs. Finally, I am talking about the balance of the state budget. If we are nominally in a slight deficit of 0.4% of GDP, then structurally we have been in surplus for the last few years. The surplus should be 0.7% next year. The aim is that in 2016 reserves could already be raised. IRL is of the opinion that this budget is intended for people, increases income, supports growth and is responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U284	Ladies and gentlemen, We all know that the adoption of next year's State Budget Act is one of the most important decisions to be made in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. I would therefore very much like to say that this is an exceptional document. But having seen the budgets introduced by the previous chairman of the Riigikogu's Finance Committee, I have to say that Estonia is even a world champion in cutting, having seen the budgets where tax increases came like rain on mushrooms, I have to say that this budget is mediocre. He has been embodied over the years with hidden tax increases and severe cuts in recent years, but he himself reflects nothing more than stagnation. I understand that the forecast is very cautious this time, but the economic forecast does not predict a very good year for Estonia next year; rather, it predicts stagnation. We must therefore maintain our interest and optimism in a budget that does not bear any good news. I mentioned that a lot of cuts have been made. I think the most figurative example of this is the coercion of the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, who could not sign a declaration of joint intentions together with the Government of the Republic. Three days after the local elections, when new or old local government leaders take office across Estonia, there is probably reason to worry that what was taken from the cities and rural municipalities one day before the anniversary of the Republic in 2009 tends to be taken away. I am not just talking about the fact that the government budget hole was patched up in cities and taking away the share of income tax from people working in the municipalities. I am also talking about the fact that in recent years there have been relatively long and cold winters in Estonia with lots of snow, but although the excise duty is getting more and more, cities and municipalities are getting less and less money for road maintenance and snow control. So will next year. Not to mention that the representatives of the local authorities before the Committee on Monetary Affairs yesterday were deeply concerned about the fact that teachers have received good news, but there is no cover for the raise. In the field of education, there has also been a situation where the state has ceased to cover the costs of support services. This means a loss of 3.38 million euros over Estonia, which is the result of which children who need either a logo or a psychologist's help are suffering. If the municipality is unable to assume this obligation, the necessary services will not be provided by the children. This budget also lacks budget lines to implement the promises made. One promise clearly concerns children. The Coalition Agreement states that from 2014 children will receive a round-trip fund to enable them to learn sports and interest. Support for sport and recreational education as a local government commitment disappeared together with the 2009 budget cut. Now we know that there was an empty line in the coalition agreement between the IRL and the Reform Party, too, to which there is no cover. The same is true of increasing the tax-free minimum. At the beginning of this year, we were hit by an avalanche of press releases when the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the IRL promised to increase each other's tax-free minimum. Then it was based on the OECD report, which said that it has been shamelessly frozen in Estonia for a long time. Oversupplys were made and it was said that since our labour market is almost similar to that of Finland, we could also leave our income untaxed at least to the minimum wage. The result, however, is that nothing is done, shoulders are shrugged, and it is said that it will not come out. There's no such wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U285	Excuse me, would you like three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U286	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, By listening to the preceding speech, it evidently became clear to everyone what the Social Democrats mean when they talk about the need for a more human-centred policy in Estonia. A few hours ago, the minister in front of us was able to brag that this was not only a very good one, but the best budget bill ever. However, a sobering look at the content of the budget says that Estonia will continue to be characterised by rather poor social and health funding. Estonia's expenditure on social protection and health care compared to GDP is almost one and a half times lower than the average in the European Union. Feelings of poor social protection are reflected in people's poor health and in families with thousands of children living in poverty, but it is inevitably also reflected in accelerated emigration. This, in turn, hits us as boomerang in the form of lost hands, unpaid tax revenues and unborn children, because it is no secret that economic reasons among emigrants are more represented than average in the younger working age and in the age of having children. In this light, there is probably no reason to be so happy about falling unemployment. Support for children and families with children is now the most important thing for the social democrats. On 1 January of the coming year, when this budget starts to work, there will be an important anniversary. It is ten years since the universal child benefit rose to EEK 300. This support has remained just as large so far, i.e. in the current currency it is a few cents over EUR 19. The reform of the so-called 'need-based family support', carried out with a huge amount of propaganda, gave rise to high expectations in society. Unfortunately, this reform proved to be a gigantic fiasco. In order to meet society's legitimate expectations in any way and to alleviate the situation of families with children in any way, the Social Democrats once again propose to triple the amount of child benefit that has been lost in time in the coming year. We expect the government and the coalition to support our amendment in this regard, and we believe that this would be one way of mitigating the disappointment that was caused by the introduction of the need-based family allowances that have not been said to be necessary. Second, the increase in teachers' salaries. We know that the Minister of Education has boasted about this (today the Minister of Finance also did so from this platform) that the minimum wage for teachers will rise by 12%, from EUR 715 to EUR 800. It is important to know that it is EUR 100 below the demand of the Alliance of Educational Workers. In addition, it must be borne in mind that support for education expenditure on municipal and urban budgets is only going to increase by 4.7% according to the draft budget. In other words, the wage paid by the government budget per teacher will only increase by just over 5%. The government's own rhetoric loves to emphasise the need to value the teacher's work, but since the overall average wage increase forecast for next year is 6.2%, it must be noted that it is very possible that next year the pay of teachers will not rise or even fall compared to the average wage in Estonia. In other words, when measured in money, the position of a teacher in society may not improve at all. Of course, when discussing educational issues, the government's spring promise to come to the Riigikogu already this autumn with the draft amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which should, among other things, organise the funding of the education sector. We haven't seen this bill in this hall yet. Another unfulfilled promise in the budget for the coming year is the increase in the tax-free minimum. Rejoicing with the government that the average old-age pension will be tax-free again in the coming year, I would like to ask where is the increase in the income tax-free minimum of wage earners, which both coalition partners have promised, in a large way, by overcomplying each other. We know that the government has included in the law a reduction of one percentage point in the general income tax rate from 2015, which means an expensive gift, especially for the most wealthy, at the cost of shrinking budget revenues. The Social Democrats also expect the government allies to be constructive in the swift processing and legal adoption of the draft increase in the tax-free minimum proposed by our group. Indeed, all recipients would benefit from the same amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U287	Let's move on to the next item. The first reading of the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Act amending the Law on liquid fuel initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Secretary of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U288	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The purpose of this draft Act on Excise Duties is to reduce tax fraud in the fuel sector. Namely, the oil oil is now being imported across the border and the products sold illegally are very similar to diesel or petrol. Tax fraud is possible because there are no specific requirements for the movement and control of chemicals and lubricating oils in the European Union which apply to the transport of fuels. This problem has also been referred to by the Estonian Oil Association. The draft confers more rights on the tax authorities in relation to the taxation of lubricating oils. It shall have the right to detain fuel and oil if there are reasonable grounds to believe that they do not comply with the requirements or accompanying documents or are not used for their intended purpose, leading to an excise duty obligation or an increase thereof. Secondly, the tax authority is entitled to ask the owner of the seized oil for a guarantee within 10 days that the oil will be used for the declared purpose. As a general rule, this check will be carried out more quickly in the future. Where a person does not prove that the oil is used for purposes not subject to excise duty, the security shall be enforced. Until the oil is used, it shall be either in the possession or under the supervision of the tax authorities. The Estonian Chemical Industry Association has expressed concern that the tax authority may in future treat all chemicals as fuel, detention, security and taxation. I'm sure that fear is futile. The tax authority would not waste or waste its resources on the bullying of legitimate businesses. Those persons who have reason to suspect a tax fraud plan are still under close scrutiny. We also expect EUR 4.5 million in tax revenue from this bill. The draft law should enter into force on 1 July 2014. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U289	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U290	Thank you. In general, I support the direction of reducing fraud, but an interesting letter has come after the draft has been put into action. I would like a comment from the Minister. In fact, scientists with a degree claim that this scheme, which we have been talking about all along, that some Polish lubricant will change after it has been introduced into Estonia into diesel, is not possible purely in terms of chemistry. They claim that there is probably fraud in relation to trade quotas. Has the minister been looking into this? Maybe we'll solve the problem by misunderstanding it. Maybe we should do something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U291	Thank you. I'm not honored to know anything about this letter. But when you think about the measures taken in the draft, it seems that they do not do any harm. They could still reduce the risk of tax fraud, even if that is the fact you mentioned in chemistry. But we'll take that note into account, I don't know what else to say right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U292	Thank you very much. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U293	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said that according to the Tax and Customs Board, the estimated tax revenue is EUR 4.5 million per year. At the same time, the Estonian Oil Association and the Tax and Customs Board themselves have claimed that the income may be much higher, even half larger, reaching up to 10 million euros. That is what we discussed with the representatives of the oil union when we had a joint meeting with them in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Can it be assumed that there could be more employees in the Tax and Customs Board? Should we not increase resources and improve the control mechanism so that Estonia receives more taxable income?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U294	Thank you. Increasing the number of tax officials will undoubtedly make life more difficult for fraudsters. As far as revenue figures are concerned, EUR 4.5 million is accounted for half a year. If they mean the annual income, it fits. But if they were thinking about half a year's income, we're glad to know that our projections have been conservative. We do not know exactly how well this change will improve the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U295	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U296	Thank you, Minister. The second question is also due to our meeting with the people of the oil union. They said that there are more severe sanctions in Finland than tax fraud and that taxes have not been paid to the state. An example was also provided. Tax fraud was committed in Estonia for EUR 6 million, fined 2 million, someone was in detention for six months and then released, and now the same persons are re-entering the fuel market. Should there also be more severe sanctions in our country for those who commit such major tax fraud?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U297	Thank you! I would be very careful to comment on a particular case. First of all, I don't know exactly what the case is. Secondly, it is a slippery way to contribute only to increasing the penalty. The court must have given a conscientious ruling, taking into account all the characteristics of that person, as well as all known information and the particularities of the case. If this person continues to act, it is not easy for him to continue in the same style. But we are working towards a more bitter life for tax fraudsters, not only in the direction of preventing fraud, etc., but we are also dealing with personal responsibility. It needs to be changed. As I know, one law that will enter into force on 1 January will allow direct fraudsters and their minions to ruin life. That's not the wrong way. There has been a debate about what else can be done. Estonia must not be turned into a police state; the severity of the penalties must still be considered. We are discussing this with the Ministry of Justice, looking at the penal policy as a whole. They have always wanted to look at the penal policy in general so that the proportions do not become campaign shifts. We have been frustrated because the work plans of the Ministry of Justice are longer-term and we feel the need to intervene quickly. But we'll finally make it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U298	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U299	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I understood that this law would enter into force on 1 July 2014. It's eight months away. Why can't this law be implemented sooner?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U300	We should look closely at this bill to see what these implementation problems are. Very quick implementation of the law cannot always be considered safe.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U301	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U302	It is appropriate to talk about a tax hole in this draft. We're dealing with fuel excise. Another major and even more powerful problem in the financial dimension is VAT fraud. In the following drafts, we are dealing with changes to the tax regime, not so much fraud. But when can the Ministry of Finance expect the draft laws against VAT fraud to affect the size of our country's revenues the most?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U303	I have an overview of the subject, but when I talk about the entry into force of all these laws, I might be wrong. Today there are four drafts here in a row. One of the things we offer is the extension of the period for checking VAT returns from 30 to 60 days. This does not mean a significant extension of the normal control period, but in risky and typically cross-border transactions where very large amounts of VAT are cheated, different goods are played and not necessarily fuel. When are these drafts coming here? From the letters of protest by business organisations, you often understand that their first reaction is that the change has not been discussed and it is outrageous, but if we start to explain it, it will become clear that it has been discussed. This 60-day inspection period has also been discussed, only not with any organisation. There are bigger and smaller organisations, and you can't talk to everyone. This 60-day verification period applies in particular to cross-border transactions. The normal VAT refund will still take place in a few days, as has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U304	Thank you. No further questions. I would like to ask Mr Jalaku, Member of the Monetary Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U305	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law on liquid fuel in 491 s. a at the meeting of 7 October. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance presented the purpose and content of the draft, which was just discussed by the Minister. There was no longer a debate at this meeting of the Commission, as representatives of the Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry had already presented this problem to the members of the Commission at earlier meetings. The question which the tax authority may do more than at present after the entry into force of the Act could be answered in summary terms: firstly, the right to detain fuel until the circumstances have been clarified, secondly, the right to demand security for payment of excise duty and, thirdly, the right to dispose of or destroy goods for which the security is not paid. The committee unanimously invited the Riigikogu to conclude the first reading and set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 6 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U306	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Good waitress, thank you! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting 491 amendments. a on 6 November at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fourth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U307	Let's move on to item five. The first reading of the Bill 492 amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U308	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Income Tax Act is intended to amend the Income Tax Act as follows: First of all, expenditure incurred in the use of a private car in the course of work and official duties could in future be reimbursed only on the basis of expenditure documents and reimbursed at a rate of EUR 0,3 per kilometre, but no more than EUR 256 per month. The possibility of paying EUR 64 per month compensation without keeping a record of journeys, i.e. without providing a cost certificate, will be waived. This is a very fundamental change. If you want to be granted an exemption, you usually have to submit documents to do so. We are simply harmonising the payment of this compensation with general practice; we are not allowing any tax-free extra wages to be paid to car owners. Secondly, if the employer's passenger car is used for personal purposes, the draft provides for an estimated value of EUR 256 per month, which is subject to income and social tax. This limit still applies. If a passenger car is used exclusively for professional or professional travel, there is no tax liability. Thirdly, the draft proposes to increase the additional tax-free income on pensions from EUR 2304 to EUR 2520 per year (EUR 210 per month instead of EUR 129). This takes into account the average amount of old-age pension after the next year's increase in pensions. As a result of this change, EUR 8.9 million will not be collected in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U309	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U310	Thank you. Mr. Minister! When the supplementary income tax exemption for pensions was created, the idea was that the average pension would be exempt from income tax. The government can certainly be proud of this proposal. But what are we going to do by increasing the general tax-free minimum that the government has not brought before us? When could this happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U311	The government is certainly not joining the oversupply here, we are looking at the budgetary possibilities. As has been said many times, this item in the electoral programme had to be sworn down so that a compromise could be reached. After all, we all acknowledge that if there is a coalition government, no political party can be required to complete the programme, even if it is realistic to separate this programme. Instead of increasing the tax-free minimum, we will address this advantage a little more precisely to pensioners. An increase in the tax-free minimum for people like us in the social sense does not bring any major relief, nor do we need it. However, this money has a very noble and social place in the budget; we are not wasting it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U312	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U313	Mr President! Mr. Minister! Income tax on pensions is a very painful and fundamental issue for pensioners and older people at all. After 1 April of the following year, the average pension will remain exempt from income tax. But can you confirm here today to all of us and also to those who read after the verbatim report that the average pension will remain exempt from income tax in some distant perspective?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U314	I assure you for the verbatim that in the future I will not be able to compete with you in popularity.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U315	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U316	Of course, I do not think that all ministers should read all the drafts, which are also mandatory in the explanatory memorandum, from the beginning to the end, but I am still asking for the verbatim report. Would the Minister not read to us in the explanatory memorandum to the draft submitted by the Government of the Republic the justification for increasing the additional tax exemption on pensions? That's good to hear.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U317	Thank you. It doesn't matter, you have this statement in front of you, and you'll be more comfortable doing it yourself at the desk. But the substantive point of the amendment is to meet a little bit of the expectation that income tax on the pension will not be taken into account. We all know that this is not an easy decision, because the number of our taxpayers is decreasing. Big promises and election results in this regard should never be expected of me.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U318	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U319	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Within the framework of this bill, I ask. We members of the Riigikogu lease cars. Are these our personal cars and are they subject to the rules for using a private car, or are they employers' cars, and we have some sort of special advantages? How do these cars qualify under this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U320	Thank you. It is nice that you bring this topic to the Riigikogu Hall, but I do not have much right of say here. Those aren't official cars. But with regard to my official car, I can say that it pays a proper special premium and that it is for both work and private travel. According to the rules, I always have to be mobile and accessible, nothing I can do about it. But I still pay for a few things myself, like parking at my home. So why don't you discuss the subject of your cars? The way in which members of the Riigikogu spend their expenses can also be discussed as an important national issue. But I don't think that should be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U321	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I now ask for the Riigikogu Chair, if I may, member of the Monetary Commission, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U322	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On 25 September 2013, the Finance Committee discussed draft law amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government, 492 at its meeting on 7 October. At the meeting of the Commission, Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance and Mr Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the draft and answered the related questions. As the Minister described in the presentation of the draft, the draft is divided into three parts. The legislative changes are intended to change the procedures for compensation for the use of a private passenger car for work trips, to change the calculation of the cost of the special benefit for the use of an employer's passenger car for private travel and to increase the rate of additional tax-free income of the pension by EUR 216 or EUR 2520 per year. The debate in the committee was linked to the next draft law on the agenda today. The questions concerned future VAT on the use of cars. In particular, there was a discussion on how the price of the special incentive for the future use of an employer's passenger car for private journeys would be taken into account. During the last month, a number of interested parties have received a number of letters from the Committee on Monetary Affairs on both drafts. We are planning a very serious debate with all stakeholders on 7 November. Different ideas, one can say, are also criticisms and suggestions quite a lot, and we have a serious debate ahead of us. I now come to procedural decisions. At its meeting on 7 October, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided by consensus to propose that the first reading of draft 492 be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be 10 working days; the proposals should be submitted by 5.15 p.m. on 6 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U323	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U324	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In connection with bill 492, our committee received a comment from the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which makes proposals to amend this law. What was the basis for the Commission when it appointed a meeting with interest groups, including the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, on 7 November? Why couldn't it have been done before the first reading and come to this hall with a revised bill, where one or the other proposal would have been taken into account and some problems removed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U325	I think that this issue is purely organisational and it would be more appropriate to present it to the chairman of the committee, because he was in contact with the Chamber of Commerce and other potential partners. I can only imagine that this was probably the first appropriate time or one of the few suitable times when this meeting could be arranged.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U326	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U327	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, Let's look at the explanatory memorandum to bill 492, I'm sure you can help. There's two numbers. First of all, it has been written that an increase in tax-free income will reduce income tax revenue by EUR 8.9 million, and a little later it has been written that EUR 1.2 million will not be collected from the remuneration of working pensioners. Are those 1.2 million already in this 8.9 million, or are these sums to be added? How is this included in the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U328	Thank you for your question. We did not discuss this in the Commission, but I expect these sums to be taken into account separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U329	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U330	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The fight against tax fraudsters must certainly be fought, because they are instigating the market and making it more difficult for those who pay taxes to act. Did the Commission also discuss the fact that measures to catch tax fraud will not increase the burden on those who pay taxes honestly? Was it discussed that there would be a balance here? Did the Commission take any view that the 'turn over' of those who fairly pay the taxes for their cars would not be reversed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U331	I do not think it is correct, in the context of this draft, to emphasise very much the word 'tax fraudsters'. Rather, it is a question of ordering the system. The state cannot assume that businesses and taxpayers are fraudsters, the question is how to tax fairer, so that everything is clear. Rather, this is the purpose of the changes. The increase in the additional tax-free minimum for pensioners is also in no way relevant to tax fraud.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U332	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U333	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, It is a pity that you did not discuss how much these budget expenditures are estimated. But maybe you were discussing at least that if, according to the draft, an increase in the additional tax-free minimum will exempt the average pension from income tax, how many pensioners will actually pay income tax and on which part of the pension they will do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U334	Thank you. These figures were not mentioned at the Commission's hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U335	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I will open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu to speak to the representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group Mikhail Stalnukhini!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U336	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read to you a statement that has been received by the Riigikogu: 'MTÜ ELV (Estonian Association of Auto-Demolitions) supports the comments of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry on the Act amending the VAT Act (493 SE) and the Act amending the Income Tax Act (492 SE) and the conversion of the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, the Auditor Assembly and the Estonian Library of Accountants in connection with the Act amending the VAT Act (493 SE). We find it very deplorable that there is a spreading practice when important drafts are being prepared without involving interest groups that directly concern them. In this case, organisations with an important role in the Estonian economy have also been excluded. All Estonian companies are sorely affected by the drafts. They have been poorly analysed with the obvious aim of filling the budget gap. In a hurry and undemocratic manner, the drafts are detrimental to the business environment and are also contrary to the coalition agreement of the Government Union. ' I cannot comment on the coalition agreement of this government association, but the strong opinion of the Estonian Central Party Group is that with interest groups, those on whom the budget depends, all changes concerning the VAT law, the Income Tax Act, etc. must be discussed. The fact that this bill and the next draft, which are on the agenda, have come to the first reading without discussion in the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, for example, is deeply wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U337	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 492 should be terminated. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 492 amendments. a on 6 November at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fifth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U338	Let's move on to item six. The first reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U339	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The draft law amending the VAT Act introduces two amendments to that law which could enter into force on 1 July 2014. First, the deduction of input VAT on the purchase or rental of a passenger car and on the purchase of goods and services for a passenger car is limited. 21 Member States of the European Union have limited the deduction of input VAT on the acquisition of passenger cars and 15 of these have imposed a stricter, 100% restriction on our proposal, without considering passenger cars as essentially a manufacturing input. The draft proposal proposes a general restriction on the deduction of input tax of 50%. In addition to the percentage limit, there is an amount limit of up to EUR 2000 per car. The restriction shall not apply to passenger cars purchased for sale or hire, taxis or study cars. The restriction does not apply either if the company demonstrates that it uses a passenger car solely for business purposes. The regime for the taxation of private use of passenger cars will be changed as the current regime has not justified itself. At present, private consumption is taxed at a much lower rate than actual consumption. An obligation to submit an annex to the VAT return is introduced as an anti-VAT fraud measure. This is the second amendment to be introduced by this draft. The information to be recorded by buyers and sellers must be declared in the Annex if the total amount of the invoice or invoices of the transaction partner amounts to at least EUR 1000. Such arrangements allow the tax authorities to automatically verify whether the transaction is declared in the same way by the seller and the buyer. As a result, the risk analysis will significantly improve and the control of VAT will become more effective, the calculation of hidden turnover and the identification of fictitious invoices will also be improved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U340	Thank you. Minister, there are at least two questions for you. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U341	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. If you look at the rather lively debate that has arisen in the media about this proposal, one of the accusations about the future behaviour of the Ministry of Finance and its agencies is that, as a result of the accident, there is a great deal of fear of subjective decisions, who will be subjective in the first place and how this control will take place, whether it will be carried out at the institutions' parking lot at night or by individuals. As the minister responsible for this draft, how will you explain how these requirements will be monitored?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U342	Thank you. It is not necessary to describe these working methods for a long time, let them work and adapt to the law. In itself, the control of the use of passenger cars is not massive; it is never like a general tax control. It is still a random check, which means a risk to every taxpayer. We do not have the illusion that everything used for private consumption will be fairly taxed. However, the risk of getting caught will certainly increase budget receipts and improve tax behaviour. That's right. We'll let the IRS do its job the way we do with other taxes. After all, there has been no change in the principle of taxation here, if you mean the deduction of VAT. For the time being, VAT can be deducted only to the extent that it is necessary to produce directly. It is clear that most people do this to the full, using the car 'double', which is reasonable from a social point of view, but taxation should also be fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U343	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U344	Thank you. Minister of Finance! You mentioned that 21 countries in the European Union already have a restriction on the purchase of passenger cars, and most of them have a limit of 100%. However, you want to impose a limit of only 50% on this draft. So far, the Reform Party has always advocated simple and uniform taxation. What's the big deal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U345	Thank you. That's a good question. Our internal discussions have been extremely frustrated, which I understand, and actually my own peace of mind has been disturbed, because people are used to the current arrangement and when they drive their lifestyle into some form of taxation, it will certainly make them angry. In the course of discussions, there is also the idea that we really should not draw this line at all, and better to do it with the fullest iron. Most of Europe is doing this, most of Europe says that a passenger car is not a manufacturing input and should not be granted a discount here, but the use of a car in manufacturing should be equal to private consumption. I wouldn't be so belligerent. However, it must be admitted that it is appropriate to have one car with which both private and professional journeys are carried out. The word 'production' must, of course, be put in quotation marks here, as in some areas production may not be involved. However, the tax should not impose an excessive burden on people, but should do so to a fair degree. This 50% is a church in the middle of the village, it's intuitively chosen. In practice in several countries, this has been assessed many times and it has been found that the use of a car can never be managed accurately. Now a church like this has been erected in the middle of the village. It should also be stressed that car tax is usually in addition to car tax in other parts of Europe. That's not what I'm in favour of. I believe that the use of cars must be taxed within the existing tax system. In particular, it can be done with fuel excise duty, which we already have at quite a considerable level. Secondly, taxation of the recipient of the salary and of the private owner should be treated as a private consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U346	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I have a slightly broader question. Every year, when the draft State Budget Act comes into this hall next year, it is accompanied by a whole package of drafts that impose extra burdens on individuals and businesses. Last year, for example, navigation fees were increased nearly six times, etc. Now it is the same again, we are taking more and more from honest entrepreneurs and taxpayers, while the so-called overall amount of tax fraud is not decreasing. Do you think that this kind of action will continue in Estonia a few years after entrepreneurship? Maybe everyone is moving away from Estonia because the business environment here simply becomes impossible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U347	Thank you. Your example was very marginal. The situation is not exactly what you described in the question. Navigation fees, as I recall, had not changed for 20 years. Their raising, either six times or less, may be checked on the basis of a reasoned proposal from the Minister for Industry. I have no doubt that in 20 years things will change dramatically. The nominal volume of the economy has already multiplied. In business, any tax is unpleasant. But there are also positive aspects to the proposed change. First of all, the employer can impose a more specific obligation on employees, their employees, to use the car only for work trips. He has an excuse for this, because if a car goes on its own business, you have to pay more taxes. The risk of having to pay more tax helps to preserve the company's assets. Secondly, company cars currently have a huge tax credit: companies have to pay less VAT when they buy a car. In other words, it is also a tax-free wage supplement. Currently, many companies pay 256 euros in tax-free wages in silence. That makes sense. The question is not so much whether there is deception and lying, but that such is the practice and the legal possibility that is used. I'm not saying that everything has to be labelled with vicious names, we just have to make a system that everyone understands. Natural and financial wages must be equally taxed, private consumption of professional cars must be taxed in the same way as private consumption of non-professional cars.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U348	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U349	As in the explanatory memorandum to each draft, the explanatory memorandum sets out the expected benefits and costs. Costs are likely to increase compared to the current situation, as administration will be increased. Revenues are also included and this source of revenue is available in the budget for the following year, even at EUR 40 million. How this figure was obtained remains unclear in the explanatory memorandum. Was it found at the right or left corner of the ministerial office ceiling, or was there another way? How has this amount of expected income What is the prerequisite for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U350	I am pleased to say that it was not born in a ministerial or government office, but in a dispute between independent forecasters. No politician intervened. However, we have asked questions and received an overview of this methodology. It would be reckless to start describing it now, because I'd probably be wrong about a few numbers. Secondly, I have not described the forecast for the kitchen side in the case of other taxes. Thanks to the fact that forecasts are too conservative, the government hears almost every year. But there has been only one episode when, in my opinion, forecast independence was called into question. It was about lubricating oils. It was always very evil that there would be more revenue; these volumes would be different. There was a demand to understand how this was possible. But justice won. The prognosis must be independent. I'd stick to it, and I wouldn't go any further on the methodology.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U351	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U352	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U353	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken along with the group's leadership to urge me to speak more than a citizen and an entrepreneur, using the speaking time of the group. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi is a very sympathetic person. He has fought relatively hard against the rest of the members of the government, keeping Estonia's fiscal policy firmly under control. It is very sad that the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, who is such a good person, must come before the Riigikogu during the state budget procedure, which is relatively likely to be done in a hurry and which obviously does not please himself or his coalition associates (at least the part of those who can think reasonably, but I expect the Liberals to always think reasonably). What has happened in Estonia today? We dream that our tax system will be simple, uniform, with minimal exceptions, etc. Let's just remember some recent history. My Common Era in this house has been going on for over six years with God's help. Let us remember how much we are in the six years that, in terms of human development, are a passing short moment of time, it is like a flash of lightning, it has had to make laws that are due to the circumstances and which are very silly for society. First I remember a week and a half of VAT crap, now we've got that car thing up here again. It is also a little sad that the good people who have built a house for themselves and, in the late 1990s, when Eesti Energia advocated putting on all the electric heating, which is the greenest, most progressive and nicest, started to heat their house with electricity, are not able to make additional investments with great probability and is in a pretty bad situation. But the Lord's sun will go down before we can finish this list. I think that neither the Central Party Group is in itself opposed to such taxation, because the Central Party Group understands very clearly that there is a need for money in the state budget. But it's very hard for us to understand where we're finally going. We do not want to admit to ourselves that our tax system is no longer uniform and transparent, but increasingly has such a ragged nature, because we do not sit down and breathe deeply to discuss what we are going to do with our taxes. After all, the endless issue is the same shift in the tax-free minimum. Just as Jürgen Ligi, who deserves my great sympathy, says that yes, basically there is a point of discussion here. We talk about things, but we don't dare admit them. I would also like to point out that, in the case of unemployment insurance, which has been discussed for a long time, huge reserves have been collected. It's awfully convenient, because the Treasury can use that money right now. We're not talking about making a decision to change anything. I'll take three minutes, if I may, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U354	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U355	Thank you. There is a table that should have been examined more carefully. You should see where that 9,000 comes from. I'm afraid that extra will come here because of the older cars. But I have given this example that there are a little over 5,000 potential VAT-intensive cars in some 4,000 companies with no turnover, with an average of 1.2 cars and one or two employees or owners. That would, of course, require an explanation, because there is definitely something unusual here. Some companies may continue to tick like this, but it is clear that they have mostly recovered VAT earlier, consumed it on account of it, and no longer have much trouble generating turnover. Rather, this number reflects such a situation. I'm not saying it should be called a scam at all. This is a practical tax optimization, for which we have created the conditions and which there is no reason to ethically condemn. There is reason to reject the situation simply in tax law, to harmonise the tax burden on citizens and to make the tax system fairer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U356	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U357	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, let me get this straight. You said that this bill is nothing political, it has been prepared by officials, it is all purely pragmatic, it is imputable and it is essential. If so, how many entrepreneurs turned to the Ministry in writing or how many of their representatives were involved in this work? Have any written statements or statements of opinion come to the Ministry? If so, why don't you tell us who sent them to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U358	Thank you. It's never happened before that I'm saying anything, but I don't notice. I have not said that there is nothing political here. I have not said that the officials prepared the draft, although it is a fact. We have, of course, received letters. Has the bill been discussed? Very much has been said about passenger cars, as if it were Estonian Nokia and the most important investment the company could make. The most important point in this draft is the annex to the VAT return. It is a very fundamental matter if we can check whether the contractor will also pay their VAT, the VAT that the originator of the transaction receives back. There are tens of millions of euros. This is a fundamental change in tax accounting, the electronicisation of tax controls and the prevention of passive fraud. Unfortunately, this is only the case for domestic transactions. But there is nothing fundamental about passenger cars in this sense. The current law requires that only input VAT directly needed for turnover be deducted. There is actually no fundamental change here, as sad as it is. We will make a simplified system and draw the border at 50%, knowing, of course, that someone can claim to have been unfairly taxed. The only consolation is that we will not impose a car tax, so we will protect you from that. However, many will be taxed more fairly in the future. It's like this with all these things. There have been protests against the annex to the declaration that this will lead to a terrible administrative burden. I would say very generally that if everyone were to contribute one unit in order to change the accounting programme a little bit or to start using programmed or purchased accounting instead of manual accounting (this could be a modern level), then society would receive a hundred or a thousand currency units against it. It's such a useful investment. In other cases, the cost of transition, as well as the inconvenience of innovation, is a very profitable investment for the company or society as a whole. We have discussed this in the Committee on Tax Fraud with the participation and approval of leading business organisations, with the approval of the Confederation of Employers and the Chamber of Commerce. Because of budgetary problems, we were in a hurry to make decisions about cars, but not just forecasting the behaviour of interest groups, but also the amount of tax. The fact that they were upset was, frankly, well-known. There is still time to argue with them, the draft will only enter into force as a law on 1 July. But it's very difficult to find substantive arguments here. As one of the leading entrepreneurs said, 'It is not possible to dispute the substance here, but you pagans did it without talking to us. " I have also said in previous times that this avalanche of reproach is not very adequate. The story that it is not working and whether or not it is, can be said about all the tax laws in force. These laws are likely to hold water, but there are always leaks. With a focus on them, there would still be no law, and there would be no revenue in the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U359	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask for a presentation of Riigikogu Chair member of the Finance Committee, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U360	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed this draft at its meeting on 7 October. At the meeting of the Commission, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi gave an overview of the objectives of the draft. Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, also answered questions from members of the Commission. As described earlier by the Minister of Finance, the draft aims to limit the deduction of VAT paid on the purchase of passenger cars and on the purchase of goods and services for them instead of taxation of the own consumption of passenger cars, secondly, to introduce an additional form of VAT return, to be submitted together with the VAT return, where invoices are declared by purchasers and sellers, the total amount of which by transaction partners is at least EUR 1000 excluding VAT. Both amendments serve the purpose of combating tax fraud. Today's debate in this Chamber began with the question (I think it was presented by my colleague Nestor) of how this financial side has been calculated. The same question was raised at the Commission meeting. I can refer to the figures presented to the members of the Commission by the officials of the Ministry of Finance. Assuming that 26500 leasing cars are currently used by legal persons in Estonia and 55000 cars have been bought out. So we're talking 81,500 cars. The tax base taken into account by the Ministry of Finance for these cars is approximately EUR 533 million, and related costs, i.e. fuel, maintenance and repair, are still around EUR 206 million. The value added tax (VAT) on these amounts is EUR 123 million. These are the guidelines on which the Ministry of Finance is based. As members of the Riigikogu, it is difficult for us, like the Minister, to question this forecast. Rather, the Commission's discussion merely sought to understand the order of operations and the assumptions put forward. We also talked in the Commission about how to prove that the car has been used only for business. The officials of the Ministry of Finance explained this in such a way that these evidences are assessed as a collection: driving diaries, GPS (if it is in the car), other evidence, including a contract of employment if it describes the use of a passenger car. This logic and evidence assessment will take place in the collection. Someone I'm sorry about, but I don't remember who asked if the office was at home, where to park the car. The answer to this question was that when the office is at home, the car is parked near the office that is at home. This question is justified because if someone has a "home office" and they live and work at the same address, you need to know how VAT on a car will work in the future. Here again is the question of evidence. If the trader and the citizen charge VAT in full, they must also prove that they were actually using the car for business. The Commission was also asked how people's behaviour is predicted by calling the Tax Administration's hotline. Reference was made to Finnish practice, which is said to be that if the neighbour has a new car in the yard, the first call is not for the neighbour to ask where he got the car, but rather for the IRS. I hope that there will be no such practice in Estonia. As regards the following activities of the Committee on Monetary Affairs with these two drafts, previous and present, it should be confirmed once again that a joint meeting with representatives of interest groups is planned for 7 November in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, where we will negotiate all the letters and proposals and shape the position on whether or not something needs to be changed in the draft. One more nuance that the Minister didn't mention. The draft requires the authorisation of the European Commission to grant an exemption. Harri Tiido, who is the head of the Estonian Mission to the European Union, has submitted a letter to the European Commission to request a derogation from the VAT Directive. On 7 October the Commission decided to propose that the first reading of the draft be completed (by 6 members of the Commission, no one opposed, with 4 abstentions) and that the deadline for submitting amendments be 10 working days; the amendments should therefore be tabled by 5.15 p.m. on 6 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U361	Thank you! You have questions. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U362	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In the debate on the previous draft, you did not know exactly how much this bill would entail. It seems that the Commission is quite well informed about this draft, because you also know how much revenue is expected. It was quite clear from your report that you had doubts as to whether the EUR 40 million provided for in the budget was really possible revenue. How would you conclude the Commission's debate? Are you convinced that these forecasts are optimistic, too optimistic or real? Did you have any discussions about how subjective budget implementation would be? Take, for example, the person who lives in a lovely rural area near Tallinn, where public transport does not drive, and whose only car is registered to the company. Is this the potential, let's say, the source of the money?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U363	Thank you. There were a lot of questions in the long story you told me. First of all, about possible revenues. These revenues must be divided into two. Firstly, those revenues relating to the value added tax (VAT) of cars. In the context of next year's budget, our Commission must trust the officials of the Ministry of Finance who have estimated that the additional revenue of the budget will be EUR 20 million per half-year. Electronic VAT returns, which would be equally valid from 1 July, i.e. the second half of the following year, are estimated to bring an additional EUR 15 million. What's the other question again?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U364	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U365	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! Did you discuss in the Commission, or did you have the impression that this bill is needed to ensure that there is a fairer situation in the tax context, or to fill the state budget with taxes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U366	The purpose of the draft is to make taxation fairer in the future: if the car is currently purchased by a private person, it will pay VAT in full with iron, but if the car is purchased by an entrepreneur, it will be able to recover VAT. We know that official cars are actually used for private purposes, not only for work. I think this bill will certainly balance this situation. As you rightly pointed out, the draft has a budgetary objective. I previously described the potential source of revenue when I answered the question of Mailis Reps about how much this bill could generate additional revenue for the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U367	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U368	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! This draft does not seem to be unique compared to the neighbouring countries. Do you have any information on how, for example, these things are regulated either in Finland or Sweden, with whom we love to compare ourselves very much?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U369	Thank you. The 100% deduction limit for input tax applies to 15 out of 21 EU countries. Compared to this draft, 15 EU countries tax their citizens even higher than VAT. The Finnish practice is that no input VAT is allowed for a car.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U370	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U371	The Republic of Estonia is allowed to have an office in its own home, it is completely legal. If a person proves to the IRS that he only uses the car for work, the fact that he parks the car at his home address is no problem at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U372	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I have a simple question. You mentioned that a colleague whose name you do not recall asked whether entrepreneurs working at home would not be subject to this check. Please specify how this has been resolved. If the car belongs to a company and the company's office is located in the home of a person, how will tax officials approach this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U373	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U374	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I still appreciate you talking about a transparent and simple tax system. However, because of this draft, the business community was very nervous, claiming that they had not discussed this issue. As a result of the draft, it is clear on a daily basis that cars purchased by private individuals from Germany and elsewhere in Europe can now enter the market without VAT, but are significantly cheaper than the market price, because the company has the right to buy the car from a private person without VAT. Aren't you afraid that the chairman and owner of the board, Porsche Cayenne, will be bought, but the simpler working people who need mobility will now have to start driving older cars than average? The state may lose a much more substantial tax than this part of the non-recalculation of VAT, in terms of the sale of new cars, the legal repair of cars and all of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U375	Thank you. First of all, I will talk about negotiating with business organisations. The three amendments to the law that were recently tabled were protested, two of which had been well discussed and approved. The third amendment concerned cars. Indeed, it was urgent. In the debate on the draft state budget, it has already been described that the immediate reason for such drafts was that, following the completion of the budget strategy, the budget had yawned a hole of several tens of million euros. This money was lacking precisely in the financing of roads, which made decision making easier. On the one hand, we are maintaining the road financing budget, on the other hand, we are taxing the use of cars more fairly. I would stress that, even after all the changes in car taxation, it is still cheaper to use a company car than a private car. You can argue on this subject, but you cannot claim that this change will somehow destroy business. Rather, it is good for business to think less about car purchases and more about other investments. In any case, the share of passenger cars is slightly shifted compared to other investments by companies. One reason is that we do not have a tax on cars or logical VAT, income and social taxation on the use of cars. Cars are simply favoured in terms of taxation, but they do not need tax relief. I don't think we need a car tax, but we're talking about the partial abolition of the tax credit.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U376	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U377	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The bill only speaks of passenger cars. If the company buys a cargo van, can it be used for personal trips?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U378	Thank you. The answer is yes. This is where the consolation lies. The vans are clearly consumer cars. The clarifications to which a model belongs still need to be made and communicated to taxpayers. Vans are all considered as production inputs, although we know that private consumption is also a fact. However, we do not go to the maximum in taxation. Car salesmen could also take things easy, because what is happening here does not necessarily limit their business opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U379	Thank you. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U380	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I may have tried to put a little too much information into question. I am now asking in very simple words: did the analysts who prepared this change not reveal the risk that the draft could lead to an ageing car fleet, which could lead to a deterioration in road safety? It may also be that ordinary workers have to deal with cars that are lower than average in the course of their duties.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U381	Thank you. The answer is no. The company still assesses its needs. According to the street image, the share of new cars in Tallinn is very high when compared to the wealthier European countries. This is clearly the result of these tax incentives. There is no point in denying that the car park is relatively prouder than in other Europe, given our incomes. Other than that, cars are highly taxed. In Finland, you have to pay two car prices when buying a car. This is not about money, just VAT, but a very heavy car tax. By optimizing the tax, we will certainly not reach the limit where the situation becomes technically dangerous. This is also prevented by technical inspections of cars. The situation which arises as a result of tax changes is the statistical situation. We will never root out all the practices we have so far, but due to the risk of tax regulations, tax receipts will certainly improve. In tax administration, too, there is an optimism where there is not too much tracking of infringements, but it still achieves the big goal of equal treatment between different forms of pay and private consumption in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U382	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U383	I predict that there will be an increase in the number of companies engaged in car rental as their main activity, the sales of vans will increase, and the Estonian state will receive about three or four times less money than 40 million euros. Please, defend the bill and argue against it!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U384	Thank you. Not good. I refuse to make forecasts, I refuse to replace official forecasts with my forecasts. Renting is also a source of value added tax, not just a purchase; other accessories are also important here. Rather, it is more secure than rental companies to obtain this tax. Since the lessor is aware, it is easier to obtain the tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U385	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U386	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I've read the statement that we have 9,000 companies with no turnover but a passenger car. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U387	Thank you, Mr President. I want to call on all of us to use the entire peasant's mind. We must begin to realise that more and more voices are saying that perhaps our labour taxes are too high. Maybe we should make a difference here. In my opinion, the signal that goes to society from procedures such as those we have here today is no longer useful to anyone. This is not useful to the legislator or to the government coalition, and even less so is the opposition, which is in fact supposed to be fighting for the rights of the oppressed because of its position. But when I come back to this car bill specifically for a moment, I do see the danger that a rich person will not be left without an expensive car, because the money will be found, but first and foremost, the average and small companies, where one car is a salesman and maybe the CEO is the other, will suffer. We know that there are nearly 200000 companies in Estonia. The question is how many of them work. We are increasingly advocating that if you do not find a normal job, then become an entrepreneur yourself. We have enough of these one-man private limited companies, and in fact, this change hits them. That's sad. But the worst part is, I'm afraid that now we're starting to move cars from Germany again. From there it is possible for a private person to bring three-year-old cars to Estonia, there is no tax, and to sell it at a price which is significantly lower than the market price by a contract between a private person and a legal person. This is the VAT issue that is going to disappear. As a final result, I'm afraid the car salesmen will lose. Such cars are usually no longer repaired in company agencies, but in countless small workshops that, of course, can work, are happy and so on. For the 53rd time, I stress that I respect Jürgen Ligi, a good minister. If there was no such man in Estonia, our lives would be very difficult. But I fear that to the good finance minister, these independent experts, who are so independent that nothing depends on them, may have given bad advice this time. I think that Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi could initiate a wider debate on where Estonia's tax policy is going by involving all political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U388	Thank you. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U389	As this raises the question of why car taxation is being dealt with in the first place, I am going to describe this bigger picture. As always, there are two kinds of reasons: the reasons for the revenue from the state budget and the logic of the tax system. The logic of the tax system has already been discussed here. I repeat that the aim is equal treatment between persons and different types of remuneration. The company car is still more tax-friendly than the entry into force of all these draft laws. Secondly, the budgetary objective. I repeat that in the final phase of the budget we lacked tens of millions of euros in road savings money. Think about it. Who's supposed to pay for the tea deposit? This deficit was mainly due to the fact that euro projects have not been prepared and the new European budget has not come into effect. What we had done so far was technically impossible. In addition, we wanted to channel more home tax money on smaller roads. For companies whose feelings here have been hurt and who have protested, I still make it my heart to think about the fairness of the tax system. We have a very small corporate tax burden. Companies can make choices about when and where to invest. We do not have a car tax that is very special in the European context. That's a lot of savings. But if we add to it full VAT benefits, social and income tax benefits, then at some point there will just be a small practice. I am not only thinking that the budget will not survive, for example, without funding the way that could have happened at the moment, but it will also be easy to prove that businesses, freeloaders, need both progressive income tax, ordinary income tax, corporate tax and car tax. It's a reality. A political alternative is progressive income tax, high corporate income tax and car tax. It's all offered. All we are doing is asking to accept that cars, whether owned by companies or private individuals, are similarly taxed on private consumption, the cost of the budget, in this case very clearly the cost of road maintenance and road construction, are covered and that the result is not an increase in the tax burden that really destroys the business environment. The business environment is destroyed by corporate income tax as the most anti-growth tax. Secondly, this is done by a step-by-step labour tax, which specifically reduces the chances of recruiting qualified workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U390	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 493 should be terminated. I will set the deadline for the submission of 493 amendments. a on 6 November at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the sixth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U391	Let's move on to item seven. The first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds and funded pensions initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U392	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! There are two important issues in the draft law amending the Investment Funds Act and the Pensions Act. First, until the end of this year, the following limits apply to the second pillar pension funds: the 2% government fee (1,2%) and the 1% redemption fee. The draft extends the limits on statutory pension fund management fees until the end of 2018. The reason for the extension is insufficient competition in terms of fees and returns, and the maintenance of management fees is relatively unchanged. The average government fee at the end of 2012 was 1.47% and was 1,52% in 2002. The draft is a fee limit that we want to maintain. Secondly, the procedure for inheriting mandatory pension fund shares is brought into line with the Constitution. In the future, as in the case of the succession of the shares in the third pillar, it will be possible to make a cash payment to the legal person in respect of the value of the shares inherited. In addition, the insolvency practitioner is granted the right to request the redemption of the units in the event of bankruptcy of the unit-holder's estate, i.e. the creditor is able to satisfy his claims on the account of the units of the second pillar. By the time of entry into force of the Bill, we wish to determine 1 January 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U393	Thank you, Minister. There are no questions. Urve Tiidus, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U394	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On 7 October 2013, the Monetary Commission discussed the draft law amending the Investment Funds Act and the Pensions Pensions Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 501 on 14 October. At the meeting of the Commission, Kertu Fedotov, adviser to the Insurance Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Tõnu Lillelaid, chief specialist gave an overview of the objectives of the draft. As the Minister has already presented the content of the draft, I will pass on the brief information that the Commission has heard. The Commission was told that the draft had four objectives. Firstly, to extend the limits on statutory pension fund management fees for another five years. You heard the reason from the minister. The second amendment concerns the regulation on the succession of mandatory pension fund units where the heir is a legal person. In particular, the draft brings the regulation on the succession of mandatory pension fund units and the provisions on the bankruptcy of the assets of the mandatory pension fund unit ownership into line with the Constitution, in particular by aligning them with the fundamental right to the protection of property. Until now, only natural persons have been able to inherit, and the legal person, alongside the natural person, has been entitled to a portion of the succession, including the value of units in the pension fund. In the future, the principle remains that legal persons are entitled to inherit the units of the mandatory pension fund and thus receive a share in the value of the inherited units. The third amendment allows the insolvency administrator to require the redemption of units in a mandatory pension fund in the event of the bankruptcy of the estate of a natural person. What does that mean, more simply? Under the current law, the heirs have the right to cash the units of the mandatory pension fund, while the creditors of the deceased unit-holder are not able to satisfy their claims on the account of the pension units. According to the amendment, in the event of bankruptcy of the estate, the pension units included in the estate will also be made available to creditors. The fourth amendment is of a technical nature. Since February 2014, Eesti Pank no longer offers domestic settlement services for payments; the central securities register must choose a new settlement service provider. Therefore, references to Eesti Pank are excluded from the Act, which means that the provision of the Act eliminates excessive detail. During the Commission's discussion, the issue of changes to the limits on mandatory pension fund management fees arose further. The initial idea of setting the limits was to create competition between pension fund managers. The Commission was asked why the market had not emerged and what the analysis carried out would say. From the representative of the Ministry, the Commission learned that this expectation of competition really existed. However, the analysis said that the average government fee had decreased by only a few basis points by the end of 2012, to 1.47%. This was mainly linked to the regressive management fees that came into force three years ago, which meant that the management fee decreased by 10% to EEK 100 million depending on the size of the fund's assets. It was explained to the members of the Commission that there was no statistical link between the fund's management fees and the activity of the investment activity. There is one exceptional fund in Estonia, which takes the highest fee and whose return is also higher than the average. In order to make the market work better, the analysis has proposed changes in two steps. The amendments proposed by the current draft are changes to the so-called first stage, but the analysis of the Government of the Republic offers additional steps that should form as a draft in the near future and will probably reach the Riigikogu Hall. At its meeting on 14 October, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided by consensus to propose that the first reading of draft 501 be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 7 p.m. on 31 October. These were procedural decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U395	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 501 should be terminated. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 501 amendments. 1 p.m. on 31 October 2004. The first reading is closed and the seventh item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U396	Let's move on to item eight. The first reading of the draft Act amending § 3331 of the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U397	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good Riigikogu! The Government proposes to amend § 3331 of the State Fees Act. The content of this draft is simple. The issuing of archive notices is subject to a state fee. This state fee is currently EUR 3 19 cents and EUR 5 in foreign offices. According to the draft law, the state fee is to be increased to EUR 10 and EUR 25 respectively. The current state fees have been in force since 1 January 1999, i.e. for more than 14 years. The bill organises state fees in such a way that they are justified and cost-based and comply with the principles of the State Fees Act. The principle of solvency has also been taken into account, as a large part of the Archive Notices are necessary for the determination of pensions. I hope that I have fully presented this brief draft. As a note, I will add so much that this amendment will result in an additional amount of approximately EUR 22000 being received into the state budget in the form of a state fee. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U398	Thank you! There's a question for you. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U399	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When you prepared this draft, did the relevant officials discuss any options other than coming to the Riigikogu with a new amount every ten or five years? For example, a general mandate could be given, state fees should be imposed on certain proportions in accordance with the regulations and, as the cost of living changes, amended by the regulations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U400	Thank you. The question is very relevant. It would probably be more reasonable if a more comprehensive system was developed instead of bringing state fees before the Riigikogu in a relatively eclectic manner and without sufficient systemicity. But this is not the task of the Ministry of Education and Research, but of another department. I believe this is being dealt with. At least during the government meeting, such a comment was made during the discussion of this draft. I believe that if the views of the Riigikogu are the same as those of the government, such a bill will come here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U401	Minister, there are no further questions. Thank you! Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Finance Committee Andres Jalaku!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U402	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending § 3331 of the State Fees Act in 494 s. 17 October 2010 at the meeting. As you have just been introduced to us by Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science. As you have heard, the current rates have been in force for 14 years. The questions and topics discussed in the Commission were the principle of costorientation and the budgetary impact. There was also the view that there could be some kind of legitimacy in establishing state fees. Why not fix this principle in the basic law of the state budget, for example, so that every ministry or any other agency should not come back here at a certain time with new applications. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 23 October. a and end the first reading and set the deadline for submitting amendments at 17 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U403	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the groups want to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for tabling 494 amendments. 1 p.m. on 31 October 2004. The first reading is closed and the eighth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U404	Let's move on to item nine. The first reading of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Amendment to the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U405	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The amendments proposed in this draft law aim to remove bottlenecks in the content and organisation of special care services for people with special psychiatric needs. The major changes concerning special care services and their organisation are as follows: Firstly, people who live in a replacement home (also known as a "childcare home") but also need special care to ensure their safety, subsistence and/or care needs or supervision, for example, when they become adults, the right to special care is given priority. The future lives of these people depend directly on the availability of services, so it is necessary to ensure that they quickly start receiving one service instead of the other. This, of course, applies to children with deep or severe mental disabilities, who live in a substitute home and even when they reach adulthood or adolescence, need outside help. There must not be a situation where there is a hole between two services. This problem has been addressed in practice in a human way, but we want to clearly state in the law that these people have the right to priority services. As a second change, the Social Insurance Institution will maintain the order of special care services on a county-by-region basis for each special care service separately. This ensures that the vacant places remain all over Estonia and that the bounty does not move with the person to another institution. For example, there may be several vacant places in some institutions, but there will be no more bounty with residents. According to the third amendment, a rehabilitation plan is drawn up to assess the need for special care from the age of 16. At present, this is done from the age of 18, but the Social Insurance Board can also queue a person who is 16 years old. This ensures that when the person who needs the service becomes an adult, he or she will receive the service as soon as possible. This concerns, in particular, parents who have a child with deep or severe mental disabilities at home or a child with a severe disability who needs a service. Then there will be no situation in which the child will have to wait in line for years after he or she has reached the age of adulthood. Fourthly, a 24-hour special care provider who provides a service to a person with a deep composite disability will be entitled to hire care workers. At present, the guardians are involved, but care workers are needed for customers or carers who need more care. The aim of the amendment to the regulation of the rehabilitation service is to ensure that the person waiting for the rehabilitation service, whose rehabilitation plan has expired during the waiting period, can still receive the service according to an earlier assessment and the need to prepare a new rehabilitation plan for this purpose only disappears. This is a change that reduces red tape in the area of rehabilitation. There has been a great deal of criticism that too much of the rehabilitation budget goes to planning and too little to services. This is one change that improves balance by doing so in favour of services. It will also help to provide better services with a change concerning the establishment of a rehabilitation plan for a child seeking the identification of a disability. In the case of repeated application for disability expertise, it is no longer necessary to draw up a separate rehabilitation plan and the service will be provided to children in need. It is important to note that, in addition to the changes that should solve substantive problems in a novel way, we have seen the provision of services in the long term. The abolition of special care queues, which are planned to a very large extent next year and for which we have an increase of more than 16% in the sector budget, will help to better organise the provision of services. If there is a situation at present that a person needs one special care service, but there is a queue to receive it, then at least there is a theoretical risk that he or she will be assigned another special care service. This means that it is as if a person formally receives a service, but it does not improve his or her livelihood to the maximum, and this service can also be more costly for society than the service that a person really needs. By making these reforms, we can better plan and make more sustainable use of the system's resources, but it is essential that more people get the service. It's very problematic when a person needs special care, but he has to wait years in line to get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U406	Thank you. You have questions. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U407	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The draft law provides that a 24-hour service provider is required to ensure control over the entry and exit of special care facilities. We all know the cases of serious psychiatric patients running out of Valkla's nursing home and getting into all kinds of trouble. However, the home does not have the means to improve control. You can read your excellent law to psychiatric patients with a clear and eloquent voice, but I don't think that's going to help much. Does the State plan to allocate additional resources to help nursing homes implement their statutory obligation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U408	Thank you. Yes, he is. You spoke of a service under a court order. I would like to explain to the wider circle that there are currently about 2,500 customers in fixed special care, 150 of whom do not receive it voluntarily, but on the basis of a court order. This is because they are potentially dangerous to themselves or others or to themselves or others, but they are not criminals and we have no legal basis for treating them as prisoners. Indeed, most of these 150 people will receive services in Valkla. It is also true that the reproach that over the years there has not always been enough to ensure that people who should be isolated do not escape in any way. In order to increase the security of the institution and its surrounding residents, we still have EUR 141000 allocated this year (video surveillance, a special card system and a border garden of all such things). At the same time, I stress once again that this does not mean that we are building a prison in Valklas, but we must be able to keep people who are potentially dangerous to themselves or others in a safe environment. With the budget for next year, we are going to have about 50% of this is an unusual increase in the bounty of customers receiving a court order. Currently, the bounty per customer is EUR 557,19, increasing to EUR 847. This means that we have the opportunity, first, to place our customers in such a way that customers with incompatible diagnoses do not come into contact, second, we have the possibility to hire more workers, which is also important for the safety of workers, and third, we have the possibility to significantly raise workers' wages. That was a very good question. There are very fundamental changes planned in this area, which I have already explained in a little more detail in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U409	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U410	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is generally known that there are incomprehensiblely long queues for public welfare services and that people do not receive help. It endangers the health and well - being of those in need and those close to them. As Minister of Social Affairs, how do you assess the situation in the area of special care services and if this bill becomes a law, do there be any tangible improvements?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U411	Thank you. I think the list of cases you've promised to send me the details is pretty long, but I've never gotten that data before. This problem, too, is known that these rehabilitation plans take too much time and vigour. These problems started from the time Marko Pomerants established this arrangement more than ten years ago. It is good that these concerns can be resolved. But the purpose of this draft is to reduce the irrational costs of rehabilitation services. What are the public costs of applying for rehabilitation services now and how much savings do you want to achieve here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U412	If I'd known there were gonna be questions about the state budget, I'd have taken the data with me. Since every number I say from this panel of the Riigikogu goes to the verbatim, I do not want to say the order of magnitude, but rather the exact number. Let's make a deal that every time you think I've missed a few numbers for some reason, please, send us straight to me. I guarantee that all letters and requests sent by members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs will receive an answer as soon as possible. I think you will find this specific amount of rehabilitation budget in the state budget explanatory memorandum just as quickly as I do. I'm sure it's there. But we can look up this time in the interests of savings and other colleagues after the questions-answers together, that number is definitely there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U413	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U414	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You already mentioned Mary's Village, but I have a slightly broader question. As you rightly pointed out, more have arisen in these youth homes. This bill is about special care homes and special care services. For parents, it's actually quite a problem. This issue was already on the table today in the context of another item on the agenda. If these children leave their home environment and a very good education system, it turns out that there is very little provision for young people in need of help. Most of the existing places have arisen on the initiative of the parents themselves, as has the village of Mary. As your minister, how do you see the future, whether it will remain dependent on parental pressure or whether there is a state policy here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U415	Thank you. All these initiatives that come from parents themselves are worthy of moral and financial support. I've met several initial groups who want to build villages like Mary's Village. For example, I bring Meila in Võrumaa and Maarja's Sun Home in Haaslava municipality in Tartu County. When I talk to these parents, I see a very sincere desire to bet on myself and do something well. I would not say that this would be any worse than the provision of public service. On the contrary, I think it is very good to have such initiatives in addition to the national service. It is our wish to treat these investments from the European Union as being fully equivalent to the public investment plan. It is not the case that only AS Hoolekandeteenused can invest with the support of the state or the European Union, they can be made by all those who arrive with their project to the point that it is mature for an investment decision. Basically, you're right, parents are very concerned about what their children will become when they are of age. We've been able to talk to so many of them. If they hear what investments the country has made, and if they are taken to a place like this to look at or show them pictures of nice family homes all over Estonia, then these fears will be replaced by a much more positive emotion. I have also met parents whose child has received an "old institutionalised special care service" but who have taken the child to a new family home. Their parents' emotions are indescribable. They are much more satisfied with this environment, because it is not the kind of establishment where a person is brought food on a tray and is somehow kept in the frame, but it is the kind of family homes where young people practice self-sufficiency, those who are able to do so, do meals and gardening together, etc. So this is a very, very long step forward, not only in terms of living conditions, real estate, but also in terms of quality of service.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U416	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U417	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Social Affairs! When you introduced the 2014 state budget in the Committee on Social Affairs yesterday, you gave an example of the fact that large financial investments are coming into the area of special care and that the money comes from European Union projects as well. We have already discussed this draft we are debating today in the Committee on Social Affairs. I have seen that the draft also makes such an important amendment that, with regard to the lack of financial resources for the wage of workers, the law will be amended so that the additional requirements that should be in force in 2015 will be replaced by those currently in force. What does that mean? I also ask that, since the draft law is now at first reading, do you intend to include in this debate an association of carers, for example, which you spoke at the opening event in this conference hall of the Riigikogu and very much acknowledged this association.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U418	Thank you. It is good practice to involve organisations in dealing with such drafts, and it has certainly been done. Although this bill was formed before the guardians' union was established, it is not the first of its kind. There are a number of informal care organisations that have expressed their views in the same way. Many of those who sat at the table at the opening conference of the Association of Careers have not only coordinated the draft, but also developed it in the Ministry of Social Affairs. These people are definitely involved in this work. This particular draft means a little more, not more. With this bill, we will solve practical problems. In the past, we have wanted to tighten up the requirements of welfare institutions so that there are fewer people in one family house and so on. But what we know now is that if we go too far by tightening up these requirements, very few people will get a service. We already have experience that it is possible to provide quality services in a family house with ten people. Rather, we are moving in the direction that the additional resources that we are gaining very much next year (I hope that Parliament will support this) will, above all, be directed towards shortening the queues and, of course, also improving quality, just as I have already responded to Mr Viktor Vassilyev and others.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U419	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U420	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When you introduced the draft, you pointed out that from the age of 16, a person may put himself in line so that there is no difference between receiving services. Is it possible to read from this amendment that, on average, there must be two years in order to receive special care?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U421	Thank you. There are many of these services and the lengths of the queues are very different, but there may be a waiting list for a fixed special care service in two years. As I said, many services, for example, take support for work, in some cases also supported housing, as well as support services, do not require real estate investments that take time. The order for these services is essentially the order of the money, and these queues can be abolished next year. At least in the lion's part, theoretically, there may be some practical obstacles, but there is a willingness to completely eliminate these queues, and we have provided the money for it. If the abolition of the queue requires the construction of new villages, it will take a little longer because, along with the new customers who are about to receive the service, we are moving existing customers from these so-called institutions to the family houses. It's a parallel process. A little more places are coming, and a little bit we're gonna take customers from unsuited houses to more suitable places. Marika Tuus-lauul may have left, but I found the amount she asked for, that's 7.9 million euros. But he's probably gonna find it in the state budget statement himself. It's pretty good right here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U422	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U423	Dear Vice-President of the Riigikogu Jüri Ratas! Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission discussed this draft law on Monday, i.e. a on October 7th. The Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas, gave an overview of the draft and explained the main specialists of the Ministry of Social Affairs Department Marina Runno and Bärbel Vapper. The members of the Commission had no questions. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 23 October (the decision was taken by consensus), that the first reading be closed (the decision was taken by consensus), that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 6 November (the decision was taken by consensus), and that Mr Tsahkna (the consensus decision) be appointed as rapporteur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U424	There are no questions. Thank you very much for the waitress. Representatives of the political groups, please, you have the opportunity to negotiate. There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 471 should be terminated. I will set the deadline for the submission of 471 amendments. a on 6 November at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the ninth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U425	Thank you. As I said, this draft will help to resolve a number of very urgent problems, but a major change will result in this draft, which you discussed a few points ago, namely the draft law on the state budget. With the budget for next year, we can, in addition to what I said in response to Mr Vassilyev's question, eliminate the order of several services and significantly shorten the order of all services. It will take the most time to shorten the order of the services for which a new building is to be built. It's gonna take a lot of time. But for that, too, we have mobilised money from the European Union's Structural Funds. This amount exceeds EUR 50 million. We want to build inpatient special care facilities, assisted housing places and community housing places. The changes that we have planned over the next few years will fundamentally change this area. They reduce queues, improve the quality of services and raise the pay of supervisors. We have very big plans. We are absolutely certain that if you ask the same question in two years' time, whoever is then Minister for Social Affairs, he will be able to answer that very much has been done. The introduction to this question is quite different, too, and the situation can be described in much brighter tones.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U426	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U427	Thank you. Dear Minister, In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, we read that point 9 of the draft provides for the possibility of receiving the service also for people who are registered with the rehabilitation service provider to receive the service, but whose rehabilitation plan has expired by the time the service becomes available. How many people are currently forced to wait longer than the duration of the rehabilitation plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U428	Thank you. Before saying this particular number, I should check it out, but we can definitely send that number to you in writing. If the order of one or the other service is long, there is a risk that you will have to wait too long. Sequences tend to stretch over time because too much of the rehabilitation budget, which is not small at all and which increases every year, goes to plan. It has been criticised very much. We have come up with a number of steps to reduce the budget part that is going to be planned. If this part decreases, then there will be more money for services, which in turn will also help to shorten the queues. But I hope you will accept it if we send you the exact number in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U429	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U430	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I have a vital question relating to the meaning of this bill. Last week I met two people in Tõrva who have had a rehabilitation plan for several years. In the previous years, they were given a therapeutic massage as part of a rehabilitation plan for five days, but this year it was replaced by a group gymnastics. Is this some kind of strategy for shortening the queues?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U431	Thank you. I went to Tõrva last week, and I also met several people. Rehabilitation topics were also discussed in our conversation. You will understand that specific decisions in one county or another are not made in such a way that the minister calls in the morning and says to offer this service in Tõrva and, for God's sake, do not offer another service. These decisions have been delegated to a place where those good people who are trying to help people try to find the right service for everyone. They must also look at their opportunities and how many people need a service, but hardly anyone is given the wrong service, at least I have not heard such a complaint. The general complaint tends to be that the queues of rehabilitation services arise because too much money goes to planning and too many specialists participate in this work. All these things are well known to us, and we are dealing with all these reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U432	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U433	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The Estonian Chamber of Disabled People has repeatedly pointed out that there are problems in our special care homes. Often, the media reports problems related to the preparation of staff, as well as poor working conditions. How do you comment on the current situation in this sphere?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U434	Thank you. The situation is much better than it was a few years ago. At the same time, the situation may vary greatly between institutions. Across Estonia, 550 service providers have been created, which are completely new and modern. Tõrva, where Kadri and I went every week, has also built Tõrva Home, which consists of a dozen houses, where almost a hundred people receive the service. In these new homes, based on the family model, the working conditions of staff are also very, very much better than in the old, let's say, institution-based buildings. However, older buildings have, of course, been repaired over time. People who remember the situation 10 or 20 years ago say that what can now be seen in the poorest nursing home is child's play compared to what was then the best nursing home. Those are the words of these people. I have almost made the rounds for Estonian special welfare institutions and I can say that the situation is clearly improving. We open new nursing homes every few months and continue these investments in the next budget period. Moreover, these investments also extend to many other services, not only used to improve inpatient special care services. After all, the special care service in the form of community living is what you see in Mary's Village, for example. I don't think there are any people in this hall who would say that there would be bad conditions in Mary's Village. Of course, we would also like to support them more by means of a bounty, and we certainly do. I think this is one example that very many people know, but there are many places like this all over Estonia. Fortunately, this family-centred approach is becoming the norm in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U435	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U436	Let's move on to the tenth item on the agenda. The first reading of the draft law amending the Order of the Defence Forces, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the related amendment of other laws, begins 487. It is a great honour to ask the Minister of Defence, Urmas Reinsalu, for the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U437	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Government has submitted to Parliament a draft law amending the Order of the Defence Forces Act and related amendments to other laws. This bill has two objectives. The first objective is to change the structure of the Defence Forces in order to implement the changes foreseen in the National Defence Development Plan approved in January of this year in order to create the necessary military capabilities to protect Estonia. The National Defence Development Plan is based on an analysis of the capabilities needed to protect Estonia, and resource constraints have also been taken into account. The National Defence Development Plan presents the capacity package that will be created by 2022 and the necessary governance structure for its management and for Estonia. This is what the amendment to the Defence Forces Organisation Act will shape by providing for the reorganisation of the defence communities so far, by sharing the functions of mobilization and formation of the defence communities between the structures of the Defence Forces and the Defence League. The intelligence unit, or the intelligence battalion, and the intelligence department of the General Defence Forces, are also connected with the aim of optimising intelligence activities. The structure of the Defence Forces provides for the post of Deputy Commander of the Defence Forces, who will be the first replacement of the Commander of the Defence Forces in place of the current Chief of Staff of the Defence Forces. The commanders of the units previously under the immediate command of the Commander of the Army will be brought under the command of the Commander of the Defence Forces. The position of commander of the army will be eliminated and the army's headquarters will be removed from the structure. As a separate structural unit, according to the draft, the Defence Forces logistics centre will no longer exist and the current logistics centre will be entrusted with the tasks of the support command. The second objective of the draft law is to resolve practical problems encountered in the implementation of the provisions of the Defence Forces Intelligence Chapter of the Defence Forces Organisation Act. The Act provides for the verification of the background of officials, employees and active troops working in the Defence Forces and increases the intelligence competence of the Defence Forces in international military operations. To this end, amendments are provided for in addition to the Defence Forces Organisation Act in the Public Service Act, the Defence Forces Service Act and the State Secrets and Secret Foreign Information Act. The request of the Government of the Republic to Parliament is to process and support this bill. The draft should enter into force as a law in two stages: the beginning of the following year concerning the field of intelligence and the realisation of the objective of the National Defence Development Plan from 1 August next year. The justification is that if the legislator provides the basis for this, a number of implementing acts need to be enforced, the most important of which are amendments to the new Statute of the Defence Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U438	Minister, there is one question for you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U439	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Can you expand our knowledge and tell us what special operations mean? What do you mean by that name?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U440	Thank you. Special operations are defence-related tasks of the type that require additional operations and activities to be carried out in relation to normal military activities. That's the general definition in the Defence Forces Order Act. The purpose of specific operations is to carry out activities which, through pooled resources, should contribute to the achievement of tasks which, by their general definition, are of an exceptional nature. The definition is based on NATO concepts and international practice. Development of special operations capabilities is one of our priorities according to the National Defence Development Plan. The Special Operations Group is currently in charge of its mission in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U441	Thank you, Minister, for your meaningful and informative presentation and answer. No further questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the National Defence Committee Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U442	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft under discussion was dealt with by the National Defence Committee at its meeting on 15 October before being sent to first reading. As representatives of the initiator of the draft act, Defence Minister Urmas Reinsalu, Commander General Riho Terras, Commander of the General Staff of the Defence Forces Naval Captain Igor Schvede, Commander of the Army Colonel Artur Tiganik, Head of the General Department of the General Staff of the Defence Forces Maire Kurvits, Deputy Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence Ingrid Muul and Adviser Kristi Purtsak, as well as Commander of the Defence League, Brigadier General Meelis Kiili. Part of the draft law under discussion follows, as emphasised by the Minister, from the National Defence Development Plan approved by the Government of the Republic in January 2013 for the years 2013 to 2022, which provides for changes to the structure of the Defence Forces with a view to ensuring the military capabilities required to protect Estonia. The National Defence Committee gave its opinion on the draft National Defence Development Plan at the time, and the proposals contained in the Commission's opinion were taken into account in this development plan. The second part of the draft under discussion organises and regulates the personnel of the Defence Forces. In doing so, the draft greatly improves the collection and processing of information necessary for the protection of the Defence Forces unit participating in the international military operation, which is essential for the security of the Estonian unit and for the planning and conduct of the military operation. The National Defence Committee decided s. At the meeting on 15 October, by consensus, the Riigikogu Board was asked to put the draft law under discussion on the agenda of the sixth working week of the Riigikogu on Wednesday, i.e. for the first reading. a on 23 October 2004. The rapporteur was appointed here. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop reading the first 487 draft law. The deadline for submitting amendments is 10 working days according to Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-23_U443	Good waitress, I also thank you for your presentation. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? Now's the time. No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission, which we heard by the chairman of the commission, is that the first reading of the draft should be completed. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft 487 amendments. a on 6 November at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the tenth item is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 19.36 p.m.
