ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start today's briefing. First of all, I would like to welcome you to this fine day, the day of privation. We are all very pleased that now the time has been ticking in re-independence Estonia for a long time since the first period of independence lasted. But let's start the briefing. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let us do the presence check. 39 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 62 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. Ladies and gentlemen, since five issues have already been registered in advance, I will allow only two questions on each subject to be put on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U2	Let's get started. The first question is put by my colleague, Mr Simson, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U3	Thank you. Prime Minister! Last Friday, Eesti Päevaleht published an article based on the materials of the Estonian Energy Council. It became clear that the Council has discussed that the independent lending capacity of Eesti Energia has run out and various alternatives are being considered for further investments. The published documents showed that the company needed additional cash injections from between EUR 1.05 billion and EUR 2021 million in 2012. Surely this problem is also known to the government. Can you tell me how much the state is willing to invest taxpayers' money in this company?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U4	Thank you. I have not read this article, but I can talk about investing in Eesti Energia. The independent lending capacity of Eesti Energia has not disappeared. As we know, there are certain ratios that lenders always monitor. If the ratios fail, this does not mean that the credit capacity has disappeared, but that the loan resources simply need to be paid more. The financial managers of Eesti Energia are very careful not to pay more for the loan money than is urgently needed. The credit capacity is such that, to my knowledge, Eesti Energia gave up its liquidity buffer of 100 million euros, as it has liquid funds (I can now make a mistake) in the order of 650 million euros. Liquidity facilities also mean the possibility of an undrawn liquidity facility. Over the past year, they gave up such an option of EUR 100 million. This year, the state budget has planned potential investments in Eesti Energia 150.2 200 million euros, but this year these investments in Eesti Energia probably do not have to be made, as investment decisions are not at this stage.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! I admit that you really do not need to read newspapers to keep an eye on developments in Eesti Energia. The representatives of the Reform Party and the IRL are equally present in the Estonian Energy Council, and then the people who are directed there will keep you informed. The press has the impression that Eesti Energia is constantly asking for extra money, but in fact they do not even have a proper investment plan that the company plans to invest by expanding its equity capital. Have you studied the investment plan of Eesti Energia and how do you assess it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U7	Yes, the government has discussed the investment plan of Eesti Energia. I think the article you referred to concerned the subject discussed in 2011. It has to be said that the delay in reaching the leaf has become an insolently long one. But, yeah, I'm familiar with what I started talking about. This year Eesti Energia does not need the 200 million euros foreseen by the state budget, because it has taken longer than expected for the oil plant to start. The launch should probably have been planned for a long time. Until Eesti Energia and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications have no confidence that investments already made will produce a stable profit or oil, so far neither the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications nor the government will be prepared to make the following investments in the company. In fact, the management of the company has not requested this either. So the EUR 150 to 200 million planned for this year's capital increase will most likely remain unexploited. The Government of the Republic has not discussed this, but I know the position of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications that this investment will not be made this year. There are other reasons why this investment does not have to be made. Unfortunately, developments in the Visaginas nuclear power plant are such that this project is certainly not ripe for considerable investments. Whether it ever matures, time will tell. However, the funds planned for increasing the share capital in the Riigikogu for Eesti Energia will not be implemented this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! By order No 129 of 21 March of the Government of the Republic, the Ministry of Finance was appointed to manage the shares of Eesti Energia. Eesti Energia has been used as a financial instrument by the government so far, and a considerable amount of the dividend has been withdrawn from it. As far as I know, 75 million euros is planned to be withdrawn as a dividend this year. At the same time, the topic has often come up so that Eesti Energia could be sold or placed on the stock market. A couple of years ago, they spent a lot of time developing a stock exchange plan. Can you confirm that during your Prime Ministership, Eesti Energia will not be placed on the stock market?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U10	Thank you. You can be sure of that. But this is not because I am firmly convinced that there will never be a time when it would really be reasonable for Estonian taxpayers to list some part of Eesti Energia's shares also on the stock market. I'm just convinced that this is definitely not the time to do so. There is too much uncertainty in the field of energy. If this is a lot, I think it would not be wise for the state to take part of Eesti Energia's shares to the stock market either. What is this uncertainty? First of all, we do not know exactly what the economic results of Eesti Energia will be under the conditions of full opening of the electricity market. If we do not know how to predict this very clearly, we will probably not be able to predict the right and fair price that we would like to receive from the market for these shares. Secondly, investments in oil production have not yet started in the new plant using Enefit 280. What is the rate of return on this plant, we do not know. If we don't know that exactly, I don't think it's the right time to list shares on the stock exchange. Since I have declared that this inter-election period will be the last one for me in the Prime Minister's office, I dare say that it will not be possible, in the remaining time, to clarify these unclear issues to such an extent that it will be possible to list shares on the stock exchange.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U11	A question registered on the ground, Mr Palling, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Kadri Simson mentioned an article published in the Eesti Päevaleht. This article mentioned, among other things, investments in oil plants in oil shale power plants as well as in the Lithuanian nuclear power plant. You have already mentioned the issue of the Lithuanian nuclear power plant. But what is your position on the construction of another 300 megawatt oil shale power plant? Would it be wise to wait until the development plan for the Estonian electricity economy is completed with this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U13	Thank you. The construction of the first block is underway, the second block is built with an option contract with the builder. Next year, we have to report whether or not we want to build another block. At the moment, we cannot argue that we do not need this second block built by Auverre, but if we look at developments in the market, the characteristics are such that it is probably limited to the construction of one of the new hot layer boiler blocks in Estonia in Auverre. The decision will be taken at the end of this year, probably at the beginning of next year. By then we will have much more information about how the full opening of the electricity market has affected the economic performance of Eesti Energia. Investments in the construction of new oil plants also depend to a very large extent on how the first plant will start. But these new investments also depend on the environmental policy of the European Union, whether oil made from oil shale or diesel fuel can be sold on the European Union market in the first place under the new rules. The government has talked about several investments, but there is currently not enough information to make investment decisions. Therefore, this material, which apparently appeared in some newspapers, is highly speculative in nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U14	The last question registered on the ground is put by my colleague, Mr Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U15	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I agree with you that this is not the right time to take Eesti Energia to the stock market, but it is also true that this company needs additional capital. I have been thinking and discussing with my friends that perhaps one suitable option would be to transform the oil industry into a separate company and then capitalise on separate generation and distribution of electricity and on the oil industry. What do you think about that? Wouldn't that be an option?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U16	Thank you. Eesti Energia needs additional capital when all these development projects are implemented. If there are no new developments, there will be no new oil plants, if there is no oil production plant, then no investment is needed for this purpose. If Eesti Energia does not invest in nuclear energy, these investments do not have to be made either. At the same time, Eesti Energia is one of the companies by which we must ensure the supply of electricity to Estonian residents. Ensuring security of supply is also the responsibility of Eesti Energia. In principle, it can, of course, be discussed whether the state must compete with private companies in the production of oil from oil shale. My personal view is that if this sector is to be expanded expansionally, it should be considered very carefully whether taxpayers, the owners of Eesti Energia, should take on all risks. But I'd be a little more modest in this expansion. I think oil shale resources are something that doesn't spoil in the ground. I don't think we need to be in such a hurry right now to get all the resources out of them before they spoil and quickly start producing oil.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U18	The next question is from my colleague, Heljo Pikhof, Minister for Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U19	Thank you. Dear Minister, The child's learning and behavioral difficulties, his or her main problems must be looked at in his or her environment, because often the causes of the problems are right there, so at least claim professionals. Early intervention is very important, since kindergarten. Explaining the causes of student incompetence, behavioral disorders and other problems requires time and good professional skills. It is not enough to have a few meetings with support specialists in a remote centre, but to have long-term cooperation on the ground. You're the one who offered the county advisory centers. Isn't there a risk that a lot of children will simply fail the major holes in the upgraded school network and the network of county advisory centers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U20	Thank you. Your long introduction reflected this problem quite well. I believe that the support services in Estonian schools are relatively well organised. In recent years, we have significantly increased state support here. I'll get you some numbers. While EUR 10 million was allocated to local governments last year for pupils with special educational needs, this year the increase of EUR 13.1 million was 31%. As a whole, taking into account also private and state schools, the increase was 23.7%. So I believe that the provision of support services is quite good as a result of the work so far. It will, of course, have to be further improved in the coming years. You spoke about providing support services for children with special educational needs at county level. Unfortunately, there are few students in most Estonian schools. Even if we had a rather luxurious relationship between support specialists and the number of students, as is the case in Finland, not every school would have enough for 0.1 support specialists. Serving schools where the support specialist has no more burden than just 10% or a quarter of the full place (the majority of such schools is in Estonia) is wise to organise centrally and with state funding. That is where we are going for children with special educational needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U21	Please, Mr Pikhof, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U22	Dear Minister, You read the sums, but they concern children with serious health problems. The schools themselves estimate that there are about 24000 children with special educational needs. These amounts, however, are not affected, especially in view of the next year and the longer-term future. The large number of school drop-outs or those limited to primary education is undoubtedly the biggest problem in Estonia in terms of education and the labour market. The website of your ministry has an in-depth analysis of the cost to Estonia of the so-called under-educated population. It states that only if those currently in primary education or even lower levels of education were to receive secondary education would add 0.32% to the state budget. Would it be impossible to introduce compulsory secondary education in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U23	Thank you. First of all, what you said about children with special educational needs. Unfortunately, your understanding does not correspond to reality. I understand that this problem is complicated. I would ask the specialists in the Department of Education to explain this problem to you, so that no more should be heard in this Chamber or read in the press. But now from compulsory secondary education. I am not convinced that a formal requirement for compulsory secondary education would in itself ensure that the problem to which you refer is resolved. I believe that substantive work with students who fall out of vocational or general education before completing secondary education is more constructive. In Estonia, it has been true, it was compulsory to obtain secondary education during the Soviet period, but the level of education in substance was certainly not higher than that offered by the current non-compulsory secondary education. But if you answer your question formally, it is, of course, conceivable to introduce compulsory secondary education as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U24	Please, Mr Pikhof, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U25	Thank you. Dear Minister, According to the national curriculum of comprehensive school, a student who graduated from comprehensive school can be expected to have an understanding of his or her future roles in the family, working life, society and country. After compulsory middle school, you could start playing these roles right away. Upper secondary school is a stepping stone for further education according to the national curriculum, so that its graduates can pursue their studies smoothly either in higher education or in post-secondary vocational training. What is the labour market in mind when a message is sent to the population that the sole purpose of going to upper secondary school is to enable further learning? Don't Estonia need employees with upper secondary school education?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U26	Thank you. Upper secondary school education is a general education. In general education, there are, true, individual components of professional, professional and vocational training, but labour market qualifications alone are certainly not eligible, either at basic school or upper secondary school level. One of the major problems in the strategic sense of Estonian education is the fact that one in three young people enters the labour market without special, vocational and professional qualifications, which is their last acquired education qualification, is a general education qualification. Therefore, it is not the issue of sending inadequate messages, but the opposite. It makes perfect sense that a secondary school teacher must take into account that special, vocational and professional training is also needed to succeed in the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U27	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the issue is child support services with special needs. Please, let us stay within the limits of this issue. Now two issues registered on the spot. Colleague Helmen Hunter.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister for Education and Science, The draft law on basic school and upper secondary school refers to the student representation in relation to the development plan of the school and to the representative of the student representation in relation to the activities of the school council, and the students' needs have been taken into account only in relation to the long-day group and the student home. What do you think about democracy at school and greater involvement of students, which also concerns the activities and lives of children with special needs? What do you think democracy is in school and how is it reflected in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U29	I think that also pupils with special educational needs would have every reasonable ability to participate in the democratic process of the school, to develop and strengthen it through student representation and other forms of cooperation that the school bodies have considered appropriate on the basis of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and other legislative acts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U30	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U31	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. I say thank you to Inara Luis, with whom we changed the order of the question. He wanted to ask me about the pedagogical studies. I hope the Minister has the opportunity to respond. The Ministry is certainly aware, however, that if parents of children with special needs are not satisfied with support services or do not find enough in their area, they will always be able to set up a private educational establishment themselves. There are a number of private schools to educate children with special needs. It has been decided this year that the state will deal directly with private schools itself. However, the question has arisen as regards the budgetary allocation of funds to private schools from 1 January to 1 January. What do you say on behalf of the ministry to private schools, how do they have to cope from 1 September to 1 January, those four months when the school is, say, private-initiative and has little money?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U32	From 1 September to 1 September, it will be 12 months as from 1 January to 1 January. The amount of money does not depend on the month from which it is to be rehabilitated. It's true, one problem. This has to do with the fact that, as the school grows, there may be more children than there were in the first two-thirds of the year. In this case, additional resources are likely to be needed. It is also true that there are other cases, namely that since 1 September there will be fewer children in school. We've been discussing how to act in this case. One possibility is that if the number of students changes, some schools will be taken back and given more money. But as of now, we believe that it is better not to make back and forth payments like this and to accept that public education support does not mean covering expenditure, but is support. If the number of students increases, the extra costs will fall on the shoulders of the school manager, but if the number of pupils in school decreases, he will receive additional resources from the state budget that he will not be required to return. That is the current understanding. If funds were to be reallocated within the financial year, I am not sure whether the confidence of school administrators would increase if, on 1 January, the money were only given for eight months, after 1 September, how many children there are, and then it would be decided how much more. I believe that school managers are capable of buffering the change in the number of students. However, if this is a big problem, it is worth coming back to the subject and making sure that when the number of children decreases, the money is paid back to the state, and when the number of children increases, there will be extra money.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U33	Thank you very much, Minister. I will also stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U34	Let's go to the next question. Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U35	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! I know your opposition to forced self-government reform since we were together on the management board of the Cities Union. Prime Minister, what position do you have today? Are you of the same opinion that forced self-government reform should not be carried out in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U36	Yes, I still believe that any forced merger of local governments in Estonia should never be accepted by the Riigikogu. I don't accept.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U37	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U38	Thank you. Prime Minister! The coalition agreement does not mention that municipalities should be forced to join and actively address this issue. So why is your coalition partner IRL so active in this, drawing new maps, etc.? Can you explain why they're dealing with a subject you haven't agreed on?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U39	Thank you. I would not give my coalition partner any role as a coercive uniter of local governments. At a time when we hear news almost every week that some local authorities have started accession talks again and that local authorities have decided to join voluntarily somewhere, I think it would be totally inappropriate to start discussing the forced merger of local authorities. At a time when we are in the middle of an ice-solder process and we are talking about the expansion of participatory democracy, it is probably not appropriate to talk about democratic freedoms crossing the road.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U40	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Is there any basis for these stories, which, like, come from the European Union, that if the Estonian state does not carry out the municipal reform, it will somehow be linked to the financing of the future budget period? Are there any grounds for these stories?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U42	No, there's no basis for these stories. Now I can assure you that I have read this newspaper article. It has to be said that this was a very misguided approach. There is no such idea paper, much less a European Commission document, which would force Estonia to carry out a reform of the administrative distribution. Of course, if there is no idea paper, there is no mention of forced municipal consolidation. This is a highly arbitrary approach. It is the European Union, it is us, it is we who make the decisions. All the approaches presented in this extremely misguided article, as if the government were forced to unite the municipalities, and if the municipalities do not join, the Estonian state could be deprived of the money it receives from the multiannual budget plan of the European Union, etc., are foolish and baseless; they have no justification whatsoever. The European Union is not the Soviet Union, where orders were given from somewhere in the centre, and then the heel was pushed together to carry them out.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U43	Two locally registered questions can now be submitted. Starts with my colleague Kajar Lember. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U44	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! I was happy to hear your answers. But the presentation by the Minister for Regional Affairs and the paper, I would say, the black and white plan, however, envisages that the municipality must first find a centre of attraction for itself, and if by 2017 the centre of attraction has not been selected and the merger is not in place, then the state will come and join all these municipalities to the centre of attraction. As Prime Minister, do you understand what the Minister for Regional Affairs is currently doing in the area of administrative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U45	As I once mentioned, I often see on the news stories of how local governments have accession talks and want to join voluntarily. This is a process that the state also stimulates by giving money. There is obviously no reason to believe that the best result will be achieved by this whole process without coordination. In the case of voluntary mergers of municipalities, the coordinating role will probably remain, and this should remain. The basis on which local authorities should cooperate more effectively and to a greater extent is, of course, the subject of the discussion. In this area too, choices must be made. The proposed models are quite interesting in themselves and the basis for the discussion is good, but the work that has been done to date has not been such as to say that the Estonian model of the selected attraction centres or the two-tier Estonian model or what it was called. This isn't going to work. According to memory, 67 responses were received. 45% of respondents did not have any model preferences. More than half of those who preferred a model were in favour of the model of attraction centres, but these included mainly rural governments, local authorities and experts. In itself, the statistical approach, where one expert equals a local government or a county government, is, in my opinion, strange at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U46	Please, the last issue registered on the ground, my colleague, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U47	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! I, too, have a question about a minister in your office. In the Ministry of Finance, it has now been offered as one of the weighty versions of the future funding of basic schools that, if local governments have several primary schools, empty pupils will only be financed in such a way that one primary school per municipality can be financed with certainty. Aren't you afraid that such a model could lead to the slowing down of the municipal accession talks that have already begun? Municipalities fear that due to such funding, the rest of the comprehensive schools will have to be closed down and only one comprehensive school will be left.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U48	Thank you. My conviction is that primary school must be as close to the child's home as possible. The fact that there is a local authority should not play any role in this. The school must be close to the child and must not go beyond the child solely because the municipalities have decided to join. However, it is important to provide our young people with a good quality upper secondary school education. It is not possible to give it in small schools. Therefore, concentration of upper secondary school education in county centres is likely to be a future trend. European Union funds must also be used to create or develop decent state schools in county centres. But basic school must stay close to the child's home. The hypothetical and, in my view, completely unlikely scenario of a county becoming a municipality should not mean that primary schools disappear from villages and present rural municipalities and move to county centres. It would not be worth threatening the municipalities intending to join.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U49	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U50	The next question is for Mr Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Stout.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U51	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! The negotiations with the WTO have been important for Estonia at different times; they have certainly also been important for the European Union. Both the Commissioner for Agriculture and the Trade Commissioner have made a strong contribution to this process. There's been a little talk about this lately. What evaluation have foreign ministers made of the WTO negotiations, for example, this year? How often do you even discuss this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U52	Foreign ministers have dealt with this matter about a few times a year. It should be taken into account that foreign ministers have very different tasks in the countries of the European Union. There are foreign ministries, where foreign trade is also part of the portfolio, and there are countries where there is a special Minister for Foreign Trade. Therefore, the formats in which the WTO talks between ministers are discussed differ. The range of estimates has been moderately optimistic to pessimistic. We all know that there are many aspects where these talks have gone very hard and taken years, perhaps even over a decade. Since there is no better option, of course, no one is going to throw a gun in the bush.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U53	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Last year Russia joined the WTO. Previously, Estonia had great hopes in this regard too. Estonia has had an interest in agriculture and trade in services at different times in the WTO. How do foreign ministers feel about Russia acting completely on its own, looking for reasons for 'non-normal' trade in goods? For example, exports of live pigs are disrupted. The latest news is there's a problem with Dutch seeds. In some cases, this may be justified, but in many cases, it is clear that these are the reasons that have been sought. Has it been discussed what should be done with such a member?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U55	It's still been discussed. In the overall picture, everyone is pleased that Russia finally joined the World Trade Organisation. There are a number of areas where, thanks to this accession, things have become smoother and better. Unfortunately, there are also a number of areas where, according to the European Union, Russia does not comply with the terms and agreements of the World Trade Organisation that have been concluded within this organisation. We have been most concerned over the last year by the same ban on the import of live animals. In addition, problems affecting Member States are also linked, for example, to the recycling tax on used imported cars. Other restrictions on agricultural products have also been imposed, such as the prohibition on imports of dairy products or seed potatoes from some countries. Problems are adding companies to the list of approved exporters, etc. So besides the restriction on the import of live animals, there are, in fact, concerns that one or another country in the European Union is suffering. This issue has been very seriously on the agenda at bilateral meetings between the European Union and Russia, which was discussed at the last European Union-Russia Summit last December, and has also been discussed within the WTO itself. The overall attitude of the European Union and foreign ministers is clear: it is important to act very clearly in order for Russia to comply with all WTO rules, not impose additional unilateral restrictions and end the existing restrictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U56	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! You are not giving me specific answers, but I am still asking whether it has been discussed in the Foreign Ministers' round that the European Union should be more forceful in the negotiations. I would also like to know whether Estonia is contributing financially to this organisation in the form of a membership fee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U58	If there is a specific question, it can be answered specifically. As far as so-called vigorous behaviour is concerned, what someone thinks is a forceful behaviour depends on an assessment. With regard to the problems that we discussed when discussing the previous issue, it is possible to start a dispute within the WTO using all the dispute mechanisms that exist within this organisation. It's estimated it's gonna take years to get to the result. However, there is hope that these specific problems can be addressed more quickly by bilateral relations than by initiating a 'full-scale dispute procedure' within the framework of WTO rules within this organisation. It is also possible to do so, but it is certainly a very long-term process. The European Union has not yet gone this way, but it is possible. So far, it has been discussed and found that, in terms of the rational use of time, bilateral communication, i.e. direct communication between the European Union and Russia, should continue and try to resolve these problems in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U59	Thank you very much, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U60	Let us now go to the last question put by my colleague Marianne Mikko to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The subject of the question is very interesting. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U61	Thank you, Madam President. On the day of privatisation, it is the right time to talk about the protection of the Republic of Estonia. We have been accepted into the European Union and NATO as a country with democracy and a free market, we have the rule of law. If these three principles are the meaning of our being, how does the Prime Minister feel about the activities of high-ranking civil servants in organisations that are not open, if not to say that they are secret? 21 March in the Estonian Express we saw the Commander of the Defence Forces spending cultural time. He had pulled a cape-like costume on his uniform and performed as a knight. We must welcome it on this theater day. The art of illustration is very nice, but, unfortunately, the Defence Forces are a conservative institution whose uniform-wearing regime prohibits combining the form with private clothing. Since I can't believe Mr. Terras would have been wrong about something, please explain to me when the uniform of the Defence Forces was supplemented with these weird accessories!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U62	Thank you. I'm not very familiar with the rules on wearing uniforms. In this regard, you should probably turn to the Commander of the Defence Forces to give an exhaustive answer. As regards the participation of officers guaranteeing the state's defence and defence capabilities in associations or associations, my attitude towards it is very favourable. Apparently, the good questioner does not think that officers should not participate in the choir, for example. I imagine you have a little more hesitation when an officer intends to be part of the folk dance team. I myself am a member of the Rotary Club. I know this club has also been tried to mysticize, even though there is no mystery in this matter. The members of the club are known to the public, even what the club does is known to the public. It is just as well known to the public who belongs to the Order of Templars and what they do. Helping people and developing their members morally is a noble goal for one organization. If some officers have decided to join a certain partnership or association in order to achieve this goal, I think it is welcome and acceptable in the democratic rule of law according to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U63	Please, Mr Mikko, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U64	Thank you. The playwright of the Commander of the Defence Forces was followed by theatre friends from France and Russia. Do Russian theater friends, like the Estonian knights' performances, belong to the top of the armed forces there and have common knights' games increased mutual trust and mutual understanding?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U65	Thank you. Once again, I have to admit that I am not very familiar with these particular common hobbies. Communication is usually beneficial for building good relationships. Let it be said once again that I do not take contempt for being in the drama circle or for acting in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U66	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U67	Thank you. As your Prime Minister, how do you comment on the fact that when Riho Terras became the leader of the Defence Forces, he did not withdraw from leading the Estonian Templar Knights? How sure can it be that the General is subject and loyal to a democratically elected parliament and government while at the same time leading the knights of the temple worshiping democratic and early Christian princes? Where is the game and where is the real life?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U68	If they're doing charity, they're actually doing it. It has a real effect. As a result of their actions, people have received concrete help. I do not dare to consider helping people in need to be a game or a pseudoactivity. I do not think that the organisations and associations that arose centuries ago are still in their development or in their nature in centuries ago. Obviously, just as society as a whole has evolved, these organisations, associations and alliances have evolved, which have started centuries ago. As far as I know about the activities of the Knights of the Templar, I can tell you that this is a very modern organization, they have not stopped somewhere in their development in the Middle Ages.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U69	Two locally registered questions can now be submitted. Starts with colleague Tiit Tammsaar.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U70	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister, Brother Rotarys! I also belong to the Rotary movement, and my question is a little more general. A number of restrictions are known to apply to members of the Defence Forces: they may not, for example, belong to a political party or to a trade union. I share your understanding that the dance circle, the singing circle and even Rotary are all those military people welcome. Now an interesting situation has arisen. They may not belong to a trade union, but they may belong anywhere else. We're looking at the union from a special angle compared to the Order of Templars.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U71	Thank you. Trade union membership is, of course, also excluded for certain professions and professions elsewhere in Europe and in the whole world. In democratic countries, these occupations include, for the most part, professional military service. The Estonian state certainly does not behave exceptionally on this issue. I do not believe that a free citizen can exercise himself or herself very well professionally if he or she is completely cut off from society if he or she is not allowed to participate in any kind of association, association or friendship. This obviously cannot be a credible request in one of the democratic rule of law, a free country.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U72	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U73	Mr Prime Minister! This case reaffirms the fact that the ratio of men who wish to play with a weapon is more or less constant in each population. It doesn't matter if these weapons are peaks or tanks, it's the same urge that leads men to it. In this regard, I have concerns about the small size and the decreasing number of our people. We have created a series of parallel weapons structures, following the example of large countries: defence forces, police, border guards, rescue services, private security companies. Now we have reached the Knights Templars. We have separated the functions of these structures and are no longer able to man them with the necessary quality. Does it not seem to you that it is high time to begin combining the functions of armed structures so that, for example, military officers and conscripts could also defend the border and perform the duties of an auxiliary police officer, for example, patrolling the street? It would also provide their daily activities with socially necessary content, because only waiting for war can time get boring. That's when they start playing all kinds of games.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U74	Thank you. If the good questioner has read this article of the Estonian Express, he probably knows that the branch of the Templar Order of Tartu (or whatever they call it) is led by Dr Ants Peetsalu. I don't know how to think of him as an armed person. You, a good questioner, are probably stuck in the Middle Ages, and you think that the people in the Order carry weapons and do something with these weapons. I think times have changed a lot after all. I ask not to mysticize the various associations and non-profit organisations. The beauty of French King Philippe IV in his day basically destroyed the Order of the Templar. It did this not on the basis of national interests, but because it was a major debtor of the Order. I dare assure the members of the Estonian Order that the government has taken no debt from the Templar and therefore the government's sanctions do not threaten the Order. Regarding Philippe IV, it must also be said that he was hoping to find the Temple Order far too early to promote his financial situation a little bit, but he did not find it there. The government currently has considerable reserves, the government does not intend to seek the Order of Templar property. Apart from the historical parallels that we are not going to implement, I say that those who wish to join together, freedom of association in Estonia is a constitutional principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U75	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will also stop looking at this fine question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U76	It is now possible to ask one question and get a brief answer to it. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U77	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! Today is a solemn celebration of the day of exhilaration of freeness. I really like it. It's so nice to have such an important day and people to be happy. I am grateful to those people who have made this day a celebration and are celebrating it. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, what do you think our immediate neighbors think of our holiday day like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U78	I believe that all our closest neighbours are pleased that their immediate neighbours are pleased.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U79	Thank you very much. Now time is really running out. I thank everyone for asking questions. I thank the Prime Minister and the members of the government for answering questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U80	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the ninth working week session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Now that there is much more people in the hall, once again I wish everyone a good day of freeness, but also a happy International Theatre Day! In briefing, we felt that the theatre was also very important in our lives. Now, let's start by handing over the drafts and enquiries. I would first like to ask my colleague, Mr Velman, to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U81	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Following a letter from the Estonian Reform Party dated 20 March, the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided at its meeting on 27 March to initiate a draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe'. The Committee on Foreign Affairs supported the proposal of the Estonian Reform Party Group to appoint Maret Maripuu as an alternate member of the delegation instead of Mr Paul-Eerik Rummo. The proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu is to set the deadline for submitting the draft amendments on Friday 5 April at 16:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U82	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Tiit Tammsaar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The hunters of the Riigikogu and their friends still have a problem with the Hunting Act, how do I say it? For the purpose of moving to the Riigikogu. As you know, since 1 March 64 in the rental hunting area, hunting is legally prohibited, while the state has given all hunters the task of continuing to hunt raccoons and foxes in order to monitor how anti-rabies has gone. It's a national mission. But the hunters in the 64 hunting areas will not be able to carry out this task from 1 March. We want to be clear, and that is why we have asked questions to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. The questioners are Tiit Tammsaar, Rein Randver, Lembit Kaljuvee, Rainer Vakra, Helmen Küttt, Aivar Riisalu, Karel Rüütli and Esther Tuiksoo.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U84	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U85	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I am handing over the draft law amending the Income Tax Act. Indeed, in the last five years no tax-free minimum has been raised. This has meant that the tax burden on people with lower wages has increased greatly as a result of the increase in indirect taxes. The objective of the draft is to increase the tax-free minimum to EUR 2400 per year in 2015. This step will improve the situation of lower-income workers. Price increases in recent years have reduced the impact of the current tax-free minimum of EUR 1728. While in 2006 the minimum income tax exemption amounted to 21.3% of the average wage, in the third quarter of the previous year it represented only 16.8% of the average wage. The draft provides for an increase of the tax-free minimum in two instalments, 15% in the following year, to EUR 1980 per year and EUR 2400 per year in 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U86	Thank you very much. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to process them within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall forward it immediately to the addressees. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Law on organic farming and the Law on state fees, initiated on 25 March, of which the commission is the Rural Affairs Commission, of the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Product Compliance Act, initiated on 25 March, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs, of the Government of the Republic. a Draft Public Transport Act, initiated on 25 March, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs; Riigikogu Finance Committee. a draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds, initiated on 26 March, of which the commission is the Finance Committee; members of the Riigikogu, Reet Roos, Mart Meri and Igor Gräzini s. a Draft Act amending the National Library Act, initiated on 26 March, of which the commission is the Committee on Culture; of the Social Democratic Party Group. a draft law amending the Land Tax Act, initiated on 26 March, of which the commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I have forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkogu and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U87	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The first point is the third reading of the draft law supplementing § 199 of the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Dear Riigikogu, since the adoption of this law requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, please let us do the verification of our presence again! 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the final vote draft Act 376 supplementing § 199 of the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U88	The third reading of the draft Act amending the Act on Fire Safety initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Act on Fire Safety initiated by the Government of the Republic 363. Please vote! 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U89	The third reading of the draft Act amending the Chemicals Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the chemicals law initiated by the Government of the Republic 350. Please vote! 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U90	The third reading of the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendments to other laws begins. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will put to the final vote draft law 332 on the amendment of the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Please vote! 67 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U91	The third reading of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? Mr Luigas, you do not represent the group. Or do you? Then please bring the paper on it! Please, Mr Luigas, as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few observations about this bill. The purpose of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act 287 is to clarify and supplement the provisions governing nature conservation. In particular, and the most controversial ones were the amendments related to the form of the decision granting protection, i.e. the regulation. The law now regulates the conservation of objects better, either by general regulation or regulation. It is also good that persons are informed that they will have the right to challenge a decision in the course of an administrative procedure. There is another remarkable provision in the draft law that is worthy of adoption. There are time limits (28 months) during which economic activity may be suspended. Certain processes are also mandatory. However, in addition to all this, very important aspects remain unregulated. For example, when a state will have the full right to impose itself on certain natural objects as a host and how citizens' property will be narrowed down, for which reasons the protection of a natural object will be strengthened and how compensation for owners will be imposed. People are particularly interested in the methodology for determining compensation. For example, the territory of Haanja Nature Park in Võrumaa is planned to establish new target protection zones. The residents of this area and Haanja rural municipality have repeatedly turned to the Minister of the Environment, the Environmental Board of the Riigikogu, and also to the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu, but a clear answer to the way and extent of compensation due to restrictions has not been provided so far. It is not clear why the Ministry of the Environment does not wish to conclude specific contracts with each owner individually, even though the owners have made such proposals to the Minister. It would agree on the rights and obligations of the parties, provide an opportunity to reach compromises and both parties would be satisfied. As a result, nature would also be protected, as the country has planned. The strong position of the owners of the land in Haanja Nature Park is that new target protection zones should not be established in that territory, but, if so, private land may be restricted only if a separate agreement has been concluded with each landowner. We also need to talk about how this process took place. While the first seminar of the People's Assembly discussed participation and involvement and suggested how people should be heard and taken into account, the process of establishing a target protection zone for Haanja Nature Park could be a textbook example of how such processes should not be carried out. The process took place literally from the top down, orders were given. Landowners of Haanja municipality have also sent a letter of protest to the European Commission. The reply made it clear that imposing and compensating target protection restrictions is an internal matter for each country. However, the state cannot explain to the residents why such restrictions are being imposed, even more so, it is not advisable to explain to the end how compensatory mechanisms will operate. In his address, the Society of Forest Owners of Võrumaa wrote that Haanja's natural values exist because of local landowners and their nature-preserving activities, and these values are protected by existing restrictions. Otherwise, the values that are wanted to be protected would not exist at all at this time. Since Natura 2000 sites are not intended as a system of strict protection, economic activity in these areas is allowed and even necessary. I believe that common sense will help to find compromises and that it will be easy for us to compromise, just as it will soon be easy to find snowdrops in our bed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U93	Thank you very much, Mr Luigas. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote draft law 287 amending the Nature Conservation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 64 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U94	The second reading of the draft Act amending the Act on Victim Assistance initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. I would like to ask Kalle Jents, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U95	Thank you very much, Mr Jents. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. As has been said, there have been two amendments to this draft law, both of which have come from the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Second reading of bill 379 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U96	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft on 21 March. a. In addition to the members of the committee, Marju Agaruma, Adviser to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, and Triin Raag from the Department of Welfare of the Ministry of Social Affairs, participated in the discussion. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to make two corrections. The first amendment specified the characteristics that must be provided by the victim support service provider. The draft law included such a point that a natural person must have the moral qualities and competence necessary for his or her sacrificial assistance. The law also replaced the word "investigative body' with the word "research institution', which is legally accurate. All these improvements were made by consensus. The Commission decided to send the draft to the plenary on 27 March, today, to propose the termination of the second reading and, when the second reading is completed, to the third reading on 28 March. All these decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U97	The first reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Maritime Act and the Port Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The presentation will be presented by the respected Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U98	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government will present a draft law amending the Commercial Maritime Act and the Port Act, the need for which arises from the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the rights of passengers by sea and inland waterway. The regulation is directly applicable, but certain aspects need to be transposed separately into Estonian law. That's what the bill does. A few words about what the regulation provides for. In accordance with these requirements, the carrier is obliged to ensure that information on a particular journey and passengers' rights is available, as well as to create conditions for passengers with disabilities or reduced mobility for the use of the means of transport. In addition, this European Regulation lays down the obligations of carriers in the event of disruption or long delay. For example, if departure is cancelled or delayed for more than 90 minutes, passengers should be offered free snacks, meals or soft drinks in reasonable quantities, accommodation should be provided if the overnight stay is due to delaying the journey (at most three nights) and to allow them to choose between changing the route free or reimbursement of the ticket price. Even if the journey is delayed, which should have lasted at least four hours, the passenger is entitled to compensation of 25% or 50%, depending on the length of the journey and the delay planned. The passenger shall be compensated for 25% of the ticket price in the following cases: a journey of more than four hours shall be delayed by at least one hour, up to eight hours shall be delayed by at least two hours, the journey of 24 hours shall be delayed by at least three hours or the journey of more than 24 hours shall be delayed by at least six hours. In such a case, the passenger shall be reimbursed 25% of the ticket price. If the delay exceeds the above times twice, 50% of the ticket price shall be refunded. The European regulation also provides for account to be taken of weather conditions and exceptional circumstances affecting seafaring, where the carrier proves that they exist. The carrier shall not be obliged to provide accommodation or compensation if the reason for the cancellation or delay is weather conditions (strong wind or current, storm, severe ice conditions, exceptionally high or low water levels) or exceptional circumstances (natural disasters, terrorist attacks, search or rescue operations at sea) independent of the shipping company. Such an approach is necessary in order to avoid situations where, in order to avoid additional costs, a ship is going to sea even in difficult weather conditions, causing passengers to be put at risk, or does not participate in sea rescue operations. All that I have said above is a referendum on the European Union regulation. We know that the European Union regulation is directly applicable. The draft Law on Commercial Seafaring and the Port Act provide that the responsible authority, which controls compliance with these requirements, is the Consumer Protection Board, that it deals with complaints from maritime passengers concerning the carrier or port manager. It also imposes sanctions on carriers and port authorities for non-compliance with the requirements laid down in the Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U99	Thank you very much, Minister. No questions for the waitress. I invite Kalev Lillo, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, to give a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U100	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, After the Minister's so meaningful speech, there is little to add, perhaps only what took place in the Commission. The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Commercial Maritime Law and the Port Act on 18 March. a. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts gave a comprehensive overview there, although not as comprehensive as today, today's presentation was much more comprehensive. Tarmo Ots, Head of the Department of Aviation and Maritime Affairs of the Ministry, and Anton Merits, Chief Specialist of the Maritime Service, made their comments. As there is another draft with similar content in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, namely the bill 353, Minister Juhan Parts suggested that consideration be given to whether the procedures of the 386 and 353 drafts could be combined. The Commission also took procedural decisions, which were consensual. First, it was decided to add the first reading of this draft to the Riigikogu agenda on 27 March, today, the second was to close the first reading, and the third was to set the deadline of 10 April 2013 at 17.00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U101	Thank you very much, Mr Kalev Lillo. There are no questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 386 amendments. a 10 April at 5 p.m. First reading of bill 386 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U102	The last item on our agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Customs Act and the Prisons Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkuri of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U103	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Allow me to introduce you to the draft law amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Customs Act and the Prisoning Act prepared by the Government of the Republic. Of course, this is a very good bill. Given that today the work of the Riigikogu has been very effective and quick, I will also try to introduce this draft effectively and quickly. The main objectives of the draft are to help meet Estonia's international obligations. To this end, we will regulate the regulation of professional crimes and criminalise the money laundering agreement, as well as update the wording of the Penal Code. Main attack on the main changes that are being made in the Estonian legal order. Firstly, as regards professional crimes, the definition of both public and private authorities will be made more systematic. These changes are partly due to the international obligations of Estonia and the recommendations of international organisations, partly due to the need to make penal law more systematic and to avoid disproportionate and misleading orders. Secondly, the liability for repeated bribery and/or bribery is clarified. In particular, the qualification of bribes or bribes as aggravating factors is to consider repetitions in the case of both bribes and early taking or giving of bribes. According to the current version, the aggravating circumstance in the case of bribery is merely the earlier bribery or bribery and, in the case of bribery, the earlier bribery. Thirdly, the wording of the universal jurisdiction provision will be expanded, given that a number of international criminalisation principles are derived not from international agreements but from international ordinary law or from European Union directives. The applicability of the active principle of nationalism is also extended to cases where a corruption crime has been committed abroad without the application of the double criminality requirement. This means that even if the act is not punishable at the place where the act was committed, Estonian penal law applies to an act committed by an Estonian citizen, an official or a legal person registered in Estonia. The amendments relate to the recommendations made by GRECO, the national association against corruption. Fourthly, due to Estonia's international obligations, the conclusion of an agreement aimed at the execution of a money laundering crime is considered to be punishable. Finally, I will mention changes of a more technical nature. The provisions of the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Prisons Act, which contain a reference to the Institute for Post-Prime Detention, are hereby repealed. It is known that the Institute for Post-Prime Detention has been declared unconstitutional and therefore not applicable. The provisions of the Penal Code, which have remained unchanged by the legislative changes that have already taken place, are also amended but have become inappropriate, for example by replacing the term 'European Community' with 'European Union'. I think it's given an overview. I certainly support the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs that the first reading should be concluded and adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U104	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. You have questions. Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U105	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! This is a very welcome bill. I welcome the alignment of certain provisions of the Penal Code concerning officials with the new anti-corruption law that will be in force on 1 April. But the new anti-corruption law regulates an act such as the corrupt use of influence. It is now similar, as is said, to the concept of 'trade in power' in a dead state. Didn't the draft law reveal any contradiction in its design that the "poverty of influence' in the Anti-Corruption Act is essentially similar to the term "trade in power' in the Penal Code, but the draft law does not provide a solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U106	Thank you. This bill, yes, did not focus on it. In drawing up the draft, we followed the provisions that caused the problems at the time. A good questioner certainly knows that a broader review of penal law is underway. I hope that the questioner will also get some clearer outlines of the paragraph on the trading of influence mentioned by the questioner. We are in the final stages of our work, with the next meeting of the Commission on 8 April. We have set the objective that by the beginning of the summer the draft must be in such a way that we can send it to coordination and hopefully to Parliament in the autumn. As this will be a very substantial draft, with over 300 amendments to the Penal Code expected to be tabled, it may also take considerable time in Parliament to deal with the draft. But I believe that this bill is urgently needed to make the Estonian legal order clearer and more meaningful.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U107	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U108	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The conclusion of an agreement aimed at the execution of money laundering shall be punishable by imprisonment of up to one year. Where's this one year taken, from internship? Or is it proposed to correct the bill a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U109	Thank you. The choice of punishment must, of course, be based on the effectiveness and proportionality of the sentence. Let's look at the Penal Code as a whole. There are clear principles on which types of crime are the types of penalties prescribed, whether only the financial penalty is limited or whether there is also talk of imprisonment. It's the same with the severity of the crimes. Given the seriousness of this crime, the sanction rate has therefore been chosen exactly as you have now read.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U110	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Igor Gräzini, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U111	Ladies and gentlemen, On 18 March, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined this draft. Tanel Kalmet, Adviser to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, and Kätlin Ots, Adviser to the Minister, were also invited. In general, it was all about what has been said here today. I would like to draw attention to a problem that was the subject of a small discussion, but the drafting of the law remained the way it was presented in the draft. The question is whether criminal law and criminal law sanctions can be applied for acts committed outside the territory of the Republic of Estonia. Criminal law is known to be one of the areas where the principle of territoriality applies. In other words, criminal law generally applies in the territory of the country where criminal law is established, i.e. Estonian criminal law applies in the territory of the Republic of Estonia. Having discussed the pros and cons of this matter a little, several members of the Commission put forward examples and confirmed that, in the case of bribery and corruption, this practice is far from unique. Among other things, the US Corrupt Practices Act ('Foreign Corrupt Practices Act'), which came into force in 1977, provided that American citizens are punishable by criminal penalties even if they offer bribery or corrupt their colleagues in Japan, India, Africa or wherever. It was also pointed out that the adoption of the draft law under discussion strengthens the position of our businessmen abroad. Indeed, Russian officials, for example, do not expect bribes from US officials because they know that U.S. officials are subject to the influence of this law. Similarly, similar regulations have been adopted in Germany and in several other countries of the European Union. So, we admit that this is a relatively rare case where criminal law becomes extraterritorial. At the same time, we recognise that this has been done in many countries around the world and has produced very positive results in the fight against corruption and corrupt business practices. After discussing this problem and discussing some other matters of relatively minor importance, the decision was taken to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 27 March, i.e. today. The Commission proposes to conclude the first reading (decided by consensus). Our proposal is to set the deadline for tabling amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 11 April. After that, the Commission disbanded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-27_U112	Thank you very much, Mr Gräzin. There are no questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 393 amendments. a on 11 April at 5.15 p.m. First reading of Bill 393 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, the items have been discussed and the sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 2.41 p.m.
