ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the fifth Tuesday session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of nine members of the Riigikogu, I present an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. The subject is illegals. On 3 February, 26 people who arrived illegally on Estonian territory were captured at the same time. That fact made this subject quite interesting for all of us. I would like to know what the dynamics of this process are and how much it costs the Estonian state. And there are some other questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U3	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to § 19 of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and § 9 and 22 of the Anti-Corruption Act, the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu submits to the procedure a draft decision of the Riigikogu which provides for the formation of a special anti-corruption commission for the performance of its duties under the Anti-Corruption Act. Since the old Anti-Corruption Act is invalid from 1 April 2013 and the new Anti-Corruption Act creates a new legal basis for the operation of a special committee, the Riigikogu must also adopt a new decision establishing a special committee. Following the adoption of this decision, the Commission must be re-established and its chairman and vice-chairman elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft law. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I have also accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Now to the messages. On Wednesday 20 February, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Regional Minister Siim Valmar Kiisler and Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher and has returned the inquiry No 289 to its performers. Now, ladies and gentlemen, please do the presence check! 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 21. Let's clarify today's agenda. Under item No 1, which is the first reading of draft 371 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Stabilisation Reserve' submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Vice-President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Rannar Vassilyev, will make a presentation. Director's break 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U6	The manager will extend the break by one more minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U7	Ladies and gentlemen, the break taken by the President has ended. As the impossibility of the debate has been identified, this item will be postponed to next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U8	We will begin the second reading of the draft law amending the law on political parties initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like to present a speech chair to Kajar Lember, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U9	Hi! We are starting today with a second reading of a draft law amending the law on political parties. Let's take a look at history, too, because the title of the bill has caused a lot of emotion. At the moment, we have on the table the so-called first part of this draft, which aims to organise the technical rules for the reporting of party funding, which would serve as a basis for the submission of uniform and clear reports by political parties. Accounting terms and principles shall be aligned with the general financial accounting terminology and set out a common online reporting format. This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the first time on 15 January and it was proposed that the second reading take place in the Chamber today. In the Commission's debate, an additional question arose as to whether the online form would be ready by 1 April, which should be the date of entry into force of the law. The representative of the Special Committee on National Budget Control gave us assurances that this system is still being created, but it will be completed by the deadline. Let's hope it really works. The Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda for today, to propose the termination of the second reading and to send the draft to the third reading when the second reading is completed by 28 February. The fourth decision was to propose that the draft be adopted as a law. These were all consensual decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U10	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Kajar Lember! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments to the draft were received. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U11	The next item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO Permanent Navy Group." I would like to present a speech chair to Ülo Tulik, member of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 11 February this year, the National Defence Committee submitted a draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion in the proceedings of the Riigikogu. The representative and rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence, as the author of the draft, was appointed here, in accordance with the decision of the meeting of the Commission on the same date. According to the draft, Estonian Defence Forces are serving on German warships in the composition of the NATO permanent naval force group SNMG1. An agreement was reached with Germany in the second week of February this year. General Volker Wieker, Commander of the German Defence Forces, visited Estonia this year on 5 and 6 February. Since this NATO permanent maritime force group is scheduled to start the mission at the end of this month, this draft decision had to be submitted to Riigikogu proceedings as soon as possible and the National Defence Committee is planning a second reading of the draft next week. Learn more about the draft decision. NATO's permanent navy groups SNMG1 and SNMG2 are multifunctional marine units composed of NATO's warships and their articulated capabilities, which aim to participate in various marine exercises, crisis management and support and represent the NATO alliance in military conflicts. Both entities are also used in various ways to promote programmes outside NATO. One example is the promotion of relations with NATO partner countries and the cooperation programmes "Mediterranean dialogue' and "Istanbul cooperation initiative' activated by NATO's 2004 Istanbul Summit. Both units will also be involved, as appropriate, in NATO anti-piracy operations in the Western Indian Ocean and counter-terrorism operations in the Mediterranean. Thus, according to the Estonian draft, Estonia fulfils its allied obligations arising from NATO membership. The costs of the military personnel assigned to the SNMG1 formation before and during the operation will be covered by the 2013 budget of the Ministry of Defence's area of government for external missions. The total costs amount to around EUR 166000, representing personnel costs, economic costs and equipment procurement costs. The draft under discussion also involved a meeting of the National Defence Commission on 12 February, where the Commission received an overview from Colonel Peeter Hoppe, Commander of the General Staff of the Defence Forces, and other military officers of our military involvement in international missions, including an overview of the readiness of the Defence Forces to participate in the mission mentioned in the draft. Following the adoption of the draft Riigikogu into the procedure and the appointment of the National Defence Commission as the lead committee, the National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 14 February. The Government of the Republic also discussed the draft decision at its meeting on 14 February and decided to support it. At the meeting of 14 February, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft decision be included on the agenda for the first reading of the Riigikogu on 19 February, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped and to ask the Chairman of the Riigikogu to set the deadline for submitting amendments. February 21, 10.30 a.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U13	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Any requests? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 377. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 377 amendments. February 21, 10.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U14	The third item is the first reading of draft 370 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the 'Constitution of the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act' by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Kaia Iva, Member of the Riigikogu, will present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The submission of a draft decision of the Riigikogu is due to the resignation of our good colleague Erki Nool as a member of the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act. That is why our group's proposal to appoint a member of this committee, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, is a member of our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U16	Thank you very much. Any questions? There are no questions. I would like to speak with Väino Linde, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U17	Honourable Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also examined the draft currently under discussion; we did so at our meeting on 11 February as a third item on the agenda. We decided by consensus that we would send this draft to the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu and, ladies and gentlemen, suggest that you stop reading first. The deadline for the submission of amendments to this draft proposal for the appointment of our good colleague, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, to replace Mr Erki Noole, a member of the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act, could be the end of the working day of 21 February this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U18	Thank you very much. Any questions? Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U19	Were any questions discussed in the Commission on this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U20	Thank you. No further questions. Any requests? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 370. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of 370 amendments in s. February 21, 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U21	Yes, so much was said that since a good colleague, Erki Arrow, has received additional tasks in the form of the leadership of the Committee on the Environment, that was why Liisa-Ly Pakosta would take his place.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U22	The fourth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Private Schools Act, which was initiated by the Committee on Culture. I would like a presentation by Paul-Eerik Rummo, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U23	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! I have the honour to present to you the draft amendment to the Private School Act initiated by the Committee on Culture. The Committee on Culture has carried out the task of preparing this draft, which the Board of the Riigikogu placed on it after the decision of the Riigikogu of 13 December last year, by which the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice was declared appropriate and the Riigikogu had to implement this proposal. The proposal was that one of the provisions of the Private Schools Act (§ 15 (1)) must be brought into line with the Constitution. The Chancellor of Justice, in particular, found that this provision was incompatible with the Constitution. The Riigikogu agreed with the Chancellor of Justice's assessment and began to change this paragraph. The content of the question, as you remember from the report by the Chancellor of Justice here, is that even if a local authority or any public authority creates a private structure, this private structure, such as a foundation, must carry out public tasks in particular. It must not be possible to create a private structure in which private or private objectives are to be pursued. In any event, regardless of the legal form, public authority must stand up for good public objectives. On this basis, the Committee on Culture prepared a draft amendment to the Private Schools Act, which is, as you can see, that § 15 (1) of the Private Schools Act is supplemented by the following second sentence: 'If a private legal person is a shareholder, shareholder, founder or member of a state or local government, the rules laid down in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act are to be used for determining the language of education held by him. ' This sentence is intended to supplement § 15 (1) of the existing Private School Act, which states that in the case of a private school, the language of instruction is determined in the statutes of a private school. And now we will add to this provision by clarifying that, if such a private school is established by the state or local government, all the requirements of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, including the requirement for the language of instruction, will extend to this school. As regards the choice of language of study, the basic school and upper secondary school law unambiguously states that if a private school wishes to provide education at upper secondary school level in another language than the basic school and upper secondary school law provides, it is necessary to apply for the permission of the Government of the Republic. The second paragraph of the draft to be submitted states that § 25 of the Private Schools Act is supplemented by paragraph 7 which states that if such a upper secondary school has already been created and operates, a upper secondary school created in the form of a private structure of a state or local government, it is possible for it to have a certain period during which it can bring its statutes and the activities specified therein into line with an acceptable law. This deadline is September 1, 2016. So if the school is already operating under an earlier statute, it does not have to comply with the new rule of law on a daily basis, but it provides for a transitional period. At its meeting on 11 February, the Commission decided to put this draft on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu today, which was, of course, a consensual decision. The Commission proposed closing the first reading, with 5 votes in favour and no votes against, with 2 abstentions. If the first reading is decided to be closed today, the deadline for submitting amendments is 10 working days, i.e. no later than 5 March 2013, amendments should have been received. So much so that the Government of the Republic agrees and supports this draft drawn up by the Riigikogu Committee, so now it is up to the Riigikogu plenary to decide how to proceed with this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U24	Thank you. You have a lot of questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U25	Dear waitress, The Committee on Culture has taken the trouble of dealing with a draft law that actually affects only six educational institutions, not much. This assumes that you have a serious interest in this issue. You probably did not miss the opportunity to visit these schools, to get acquainted with directors and teachers, and also to talk to students and their parents. Please tell me which of the six schools you liked best and where you didn't like it at all! What proved that you were on the right track, and what may have opposed it? I mean, which schools did you go to, and what impressions do you have after that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U26	Your question began with the words that the Committee on Culture took the trouble and so on. The Committee on Culture took on the task of the Riigikogu's board of directors to bring one law into line with the Constitution because it cannot be considered normal to have a law that does not comply with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U27	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U28	Dear waitress, According to the Chancellor of Justice, the Private School Act is illegal in the part of the Constitution, which allows teaching in a private school governed by public authority in another language instead of teaching in the Estonian language, without prior checking whether the state has guaranteed the right of everyone to receive instruction in the Estonian language when providing education in a foreign language. Why did the initiators not then set out how to check whether the Estonian language teaching was guaranteed, as the Chancellor of Justice clearly pointed out? Essentially, the evaluation given by the Chancellor of Justice has been exceeded and the teaching in the language in fact is completely prohibited in private schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U29	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U30	In preparing this draft, the Committee on Culture was based on the task of bringing this provision into line with the Constitution in accordance with the decision of the Riigikogu plenary with which the Riigikogu acknowledged that the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice was appropriate. We could not draw up this draft on the basis of any other considerations, nor could we go against or bypass the assessments of the Chancellor of Justice who had obtained the approval of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U31	Good waitress! I understand from your answer to Mr Stalnukhin's question that you have visited any school involved, not only you personally, but members of the Commission at all. If you had been present, you would be aware that Haaberst Russian Private High School and Sakala Eragymnasium, for example, do not provide general education in Russian. They go to Estonian, as required by the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. But my question is this: why are there so many inaccuracies and strange things in the explanatory memorandum? For example, it is claimed that the Upper Secondary School of Vana-Kalamaja Adults was authorised for Russian studies, but it is not said that only until 2016, which basically means the same provision as in § 25. What's the matter? Why this strange concept of facts?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U32	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U33	It is not those private schools that are literally private schools and created on a private initiative. These are private educational establishments set up by public authorities, the state or local authorities. So these schools, which provide general education in Russian or in any other language of instruction than Estonian, which are indeed created on a private initiative, are not at all the subject of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U34	Honourable waitress! You will also touch on two schools in the explanatory memorandum, based on the curriculum of the International Bachelor's Organization. Please tell me how these changes that you have brought out affect these schools! Maybe you can start a third and fourth school on this basis. Did you discuss this issue more widely?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U35	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U36	If I understand correctly, you mean schools implementing a curriculum developed under the International Bachelor's Organization's curriculum or the Convention on the Statute of European Schools. Yes, indeed, the draft explanatory memorandum states that two municipal schools are currently working on the basis of the curriculum of the International Bachelor's Organization: Tallinn English College and Miina Härma Gymnasium. They are indeed dependent schools of municipal authority, but they fulfil all the requirements laid down in this part of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U37	Dear waitress, You said that according to this bill, the language of study in private school must be chosen in accordance with the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. In order to teach in another language, permission from the Government of the Republic is required. When we look at the provision of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the process is that the Council proposes to the local government, which in turn proposes to the Government of the Republic, which will decide. How would this happen in private schools, given that private schools do not have collections?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U38	I don't think that's the way it is, because the Government of the Republic has been approached for a special permit concerning the language of instruction. Consequently, the procedure under which the Government can decide whether or not to accept this request must be completed. Therefore, all the steps required to address the government must be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U39	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U40	Deeply honored Mr Rummo! A recent survey showed that one in three Estonians is planning to leave Estonia, living under the slogan 'Escape, free child! '. Two thirds of the population, however, are likely to have in mind the motto "Every man is the blacksmith of his own destiny and the one who sheds his own happiness." They hope that some kind of participatory democracy will still be preserved in Estonia. That is why I am asking the following question. If you have decided on the fate of several institutions, whose representatives of the institutions mentioned in the draft have you invited to the committee? Who were you talking to? Did you also have school psychologists, linguists, people with the theme?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U41	I also recall that the Chancellor of Justice is not always infallible in his assessments.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U42	Question time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U43	The Chancellor of Justice's assessments and the resulting proposal were assessed by the Riigikogu's plenary on 13 December 2012. The Assembly agreed with the evaluations of the Chancellor of Justice and began to implement his proposal. As regards the background to your question as to whether all the needs of schools in Estonia have been considered at the highest level, it must be acknowledged that there is not necessarily one. However, we cannot begin to meet these needs by going against the Constitution. These are two completely different questions. The new draft law on basic school and upper secondary school has, as we know, been received; tomorrow we will have it here at first reading. Thus, these specific school arrangements, which enable the country's objectives to be achieved in accordance with the Constitution, will be discussed anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U44	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U45	Honourable waitress! It really hurts me that you speak more using the terms of a representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: authorisation, prohibition. It's like you don't really care about the quality of your education. This explanatory memorandum mentions the curriculum of the IBO, the International Bachelor's Organization. We know very well that before transitioning to it, the school will be visited by an international commission, which will make sure that students are able to understand the content of learning in a foreign language. There are at least three rounds of conversation: teachers, parents and children. And if everyone's in favour of teaching in a foreign language, it's over. Would you please describe how this is done in the case of the changeover to the Estonian language? I know that Mr Ossinovski got stuck looking for the relevant documents. You may have more information about how interviews have been arranged with parents, for example, in the schools where you are going to study in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U46	Thank you. Jaak Allik, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U47	These preparatory steps, including checking whether one or the other specific school is able to teach in compliance with the law, are able to do what kind of assistance it may need in order to be able to switch to the Estonian language of instruction at 60% of the upper secondary school level, are carried out by the executive power. The Ministry of Education is constantly informed about matters in all schools that are subject to the law. This check's working. This control certainly cannot be assumed by the Riigikogu or by one of the Riigikogu committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U48	Dear waitress, After the entry into force of this law, the municipality will have the opportunity to support private schools in other languages, as the Chancellor of Justice said, but according to the Chancellor of Justice, it must do so equally in relation to all private schools. Do you have any idea which law could control it and what sanctions would be for local governments if they did not support private schools equally, but selectively?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U49	It is absolutely logical that, if some kind of public authority benefits or subsidies are applied to any person or organisation having the same legal status, this must, of course, be done on an equal footing. And it's also completely verifiable.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U50	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U51	I would like to clarify the area relating to my first question. As I understand it, those schools whose activities are based on the curriculum drawn up under the International Convention are subject to very little Estonian law in this area. They are independent in this sense. That is why I have the question: how much do you intervene in the international landscape with the amendments to this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U52	Certainly, if Estonia is a party to the relevant Convention, we must comply with the requirements that this Convention prescribes. We cannot exceed these powers in any way. If, in the case of the schools mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of the two drafts where the curriculum of the International Bachelor's Organization is being implemented, the Estonian state would have taken any steps that would not be acceptable to the so-called Convention Partner, it would not have been possible to put these schools into action under this convention. So obviously, the Estonian state has complied with all the requirements that this entails.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U53	Thank you. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U54	I did not get an answer to my first question, even though I tried to present it very slowly and clearly. I'm sorry, but it's a little funny for a member of the Committee on Culture to explain the provisions of private school law. According to the private school law, the private school does not have a board of trustees, but has a council. You write in this draft that the application for an exemption is based on the provisions of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. In this case, a private school cannot apply for this exception at all. Hence my question: how do the provisions of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act extend to private schools on the issue of the choice of language of instruction, given that private schools do not have collections of care?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U55	Thank you for your attention. I think that it is possible, in the course of the further procedure of the draft, if that is, as you say, to eliminate this uncertainty and set out the matter clearly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U56	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U57	Good Commission waitress! Understandably, it has been quite a few months since September 1. One might say that the school year will soon be over, and the debate about municipal private schools is almost over. Why is the Committee on Culture so bravely pursuing the fight that the political landscape is actually over?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U58	Thank you. Mailis Reps, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U59	I have to apologize, but I didn't quite understand your question. It is not the case that the Constitution applies until 1 September and then suddenly no longer applies. It is clear that our aim is to bring one law adopted by the Riigikogu into line with the Constitution on the basis of the fingertips and attention of the Chancellor of Justice. The Constitution also applies in the following and the following academic year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U60	The rapporteur from the Commission. With all due respect, I understand you have to tell me what you're talking about. But if this is in harmony or not in accordance with the Constitution, the Chancellor of Justice actually said that there is no consistency when, at a specific municipal level, it is not certain that young people are guaranteed education in Estonian. Do you, Mr Paul-Eerik Rummo, really think that in Tallinn, for example, all children in Tallinn are not guaranteed the opportunity to study at an Estonian-language school? There's at least 40 of them. Why, then, do we have to do more in legislation to eliminate municipal private schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U61	In order to authorise a private school to use the language of instruction that a private school wishes to use in upper secondary school, the Government of the Republic, which is the grantor of that authorisation, must verify that all relevant conditions and requirements are met. So far, there is no clear and unambiguous legal basis to say that all these requirements must be met, including the requirement highlighted by the Chancellor of Justice: it must be possible to obtain education in Estonian in a particular municipal territory even if such permission is granted to a single school. The point is, however, that all schools established by the public authorities must be brought to the same level as municipal or state schools, or schools operating in a private legal form, in the main matters of school organisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U62	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. Any requests? Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As was expected, our debate here today focused largely not only on private school law and a specific draft, but on the situation of Russian-language upper secondary schools as a whole. This is understandable, of course, because, as we talked about during the debate on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, the draft we are discussing today is, in our opinion, reflected in the day-to-day political desire to do away with Tallinn and Narva, not to deal with the issue of Russian-language education in a comprehensive and sensible manner. This is also demonstrated by the fact that the draft goes beyond what the unconstitutional Chancellor of Justice found, since he only spoke of the fact that before granting permission to establish a private school in another language, it should be checked whether education in Estonian is available. The draft goes far beyond this, clearly bearing in mind the political will of the party. I pointed out in my questions that the quality of this draft also raises questions. The previous speaker did not know how to apply for this exception if private schools did not have collections. The whole problem with Russian-speaking schools is very simple in itself: due to the lack of teaching methods, our Russian-speaking schools in many cases do not guarantee proper knowledge of the Estonian language. At the same time, there are also positive examples: In 2011 the average result of the Estonian language exam of Tartu Annelinna Gymnasium was 89%. However, when we look at the Tallinn Karjamaa Gymnasium, this figure was 49%, Narva 6. 43% in school, 30% in Lasnamäe Primary School. It is therefore clear that we need to seriously analyse how Estonian is taught in Russian-speaking primary schools, that after nine years of compulsory education in Estonian, the average result of the B1 language examination in some schools is 30%. Instead, the government has approached the problem from the wrong end in principle, trying to correct primary school errors in upper secondary school at 60% with the introduction of Estonian-language education. I have no doubt that some schools, such as the Tartu Annelinna Gymnasium, can do this nicely. However, it is clear that children who receive 30, 40 or even 60 points on the B1 exam are unable to acquire the necessary knowledge in Estonian language in upper secondary school physics, biology or history. Neither the knowledge nor the Estonian language are acquired in this way and the desire to increase the competitiveness of Russian youth is cynical here. This reform has obviously started at the wrong end, and this was also acknowledged by the Minister of Education Aaviksoo a few weeks ago from this speech chair. Of course, considering that the integration environments are fundamentally different in Tartu, Tallinn and Narva, the legislator in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act provided for the possibility of granting an exception to those schools which, either due to the lack of pedagogies or the lack of children's language skills, cannot switch to Estonian education to 60%. Unfortunately, the government did not allow the upper secondary schools of Tallinn and Narva, except for two adult schools and the German Gymnasium in Tallinn, to provide children with good education even in individual classes. Instead, the government made another day-to-day move, blaming schools and their leaders: it is said that they themselves are guilty that they are not prepared enough to switch to the Estonian language. However, the same Russian youths, after which words are made in the words of the changeover, were overlooked, but who are not guilty in any way that their school had not had a sufficiently foresighted director or that the city had no Estonian-language teachers, nor that they lived in Narva and not in Tartu, and that their parents had no private teacher to hire money. In a situation where the government does not do the will of the legislator and does not grant an exception to those schools or classes that really need it, two municipalities took a second legal opportunity and wanted to establish a private school in which less than 60% of children could be educated in Estonian. Estonian language education would have remained mandatory anyway, as it is provided for in the curriculum. The Social Democrats have stressed that we do not approve of this forced move, which essentially introduces the possibility of implementing the exception to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act within the framework of the Second Law, the Private School Act. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U64	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U65	A responsible government should change its decisions on granting exceptions, not use its parliamentary majority to simply do away with the local authorities. The funniest thing about this is that it isn't really doing away. After the adoption of this law, local authorities will be able to support a private school in Russian if it is not declared by its founders or shareholders. I believe the local authorities will do that. Then we can probably expect a new legislative amendment, a proposal from either the Chancellor of Justice or the Government to turn off the tap as well. In other words, political action on the issue of the Russian school will certainly continue, and the leaders of some political parties will be delighted at the consolidation and excitation of the confrontational electra on the territory of the nation. The entire Estonian society suffers, however, as many Russian young people are closing the road to proper upper secondary school education. This isn't right! Both the Riigikogu and the government are called upon by the Social Democrats to find solutions to the problems of Russian-language education, which would ensure both a high level of knowledge of the subject and the proficiency of the Estonian language and enable young Russian-speaking people to contribute fully to Estonian society. This draft is clearly a substitute for a comprehensive education policy solution, and we propose to reject it at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U66	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U67	Ladies and gentlemen, Continuing with quite the same idea as concluded by a good colleague, I would say that for a while in this Riigikogu we are dealing not only with substitution activities, but with completely pointless activities. September 1 is quite a month away. Before 1 September, there was a very big debate about whether the Riigikogu, by introducing the basic school and upper secondary school law, gave local governments, parents and school teachers the klutz that was agreed upon. I would remind you: the Riigikogu agreed that the language of instruction in upper secondary school is Estonian, but if the joint decision of teachers and parents, when drafting the school development plan, finds that it is necessary to teach different subjects in Estonian for a period of time, not 60%, which is the right mystical percentage, but less, then the Government of the Republic may authorise it. So far, Minister Aaviksoo, the Reform Party and the Alliance of Isamaa and Res Publica have not wanted to analyse for political reasons what schools want. Do you really believe here in the Riigikogu Hall today that the Narva Pähklimäe Gymnasium is unable to teach good Estonian? Check out the results of the state exam and go to this school! You see, these young people speak very good Estonian. However, the question with which the school approached the Government of the Republic was well - founded. The school pointed out a variety of subjects by very good specialists who wish to pass on their subjects, especially real subjects, in Russian. The application was accompanied by a visit to parents. Or we will take Tallinn's much discussed lyceum in Lasnamäe, which is a well-known school of brilliant, very good education, where parents are very eager to put their children and where children are taught very good Estonian. But this school, too, did not want to go to that 60%, but pointed out the subjects he taught in Estonian, while claiming that 60% of the talk was, to put it mildly, bullshit. This is what we have repeatedly tried to clarify here in the Riigikogu Chamber. Quite recently, in the proposal to amend the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, we tried to define mandatory subjects that can be taught in a foreign language, but also have been practiced and scientifically analysed. But we're only talking about some percentage, talking about something to shout out in a wave of political slogans, without going into what's really going on at school. In fact, the objective is not to teach a national language. If the aim was to teach the national language, we would not talk about these percentages and other nonsense, but about the results of the state examination, about the knowledge of the national language and the motivation of young people. The draft 343 is indeed initiated by the Chancellor of Justice. He referred to the obligation that when a local government establishes a school or is a co-founder of a private school, it must be certain that it does not restrict the possibility for young people at municipal level to continue to study in Estonian, of course, as the Chancellor of Justice has pointed out, also in the case of a private school, free of charge. If the municipal body is co-responsible, it cannot prevent those wishing to learn free of charge in the national language. Indeed, we could have changed the private school law only to require that the municipal initiative must be guaranteed in the same region, in the same municipality the possibility of upper secondary school education in Estonian. However, we come out here very clearly with only one political message: if the municipal body is the founder or co-founder of the school, the language of instruction must not be different from the Estonian language. What is the basis for all this? I think that there is no one in the Riigikogu who does not understand that the real goal is only one: it is a political act. It is forgotten that we are talking about specific young people who may be studying in very good schools, receive very good language teaching, but these schools do not want to go along with this crap, with all these percentages. Now, of course, this has to be done because checks come and are shown to them by counting the percentages, how 40 additives are taught in Estonian, for example, in the fresh air in physical education. The 60% required is met, but what is the real objective? Whether the real goal in our country is for children to be able to speak a very good national language, or whether the aim is to constantly raise this issue politically in one way or the other to show their voters how they fight for the Estonian people and the Estonian language. Is imposing certain restrictions on schools in Tallinn and Narva now the flag under which the Estonian language is saved in the Republic of Estonia?! Perhaps our people's problem is that we have poverty or reluctance or ignorance, as well as arrogant people leaving Estonia and decide to move their families, their children out of here? We should be much more concerned about the fact that a third of the people are ready to move away from here with their families, to hurt the heart for Estonia's long-term survival. This is shown by EHIS data. Children have left us throughout this school year; they are taken from Estonia to schools in other countries. However, we are concerned that one municipal school in Tallinn is perhaps a private school in the future, which may provide only 42% of the subjects in Estonian. You will understand that our concern here in the Riigikogu could be to deal with more constructive topics than the establishment of one private school or another. And therefore, the Centre Party considers that there is no point in continuing the procedure of Bill 343. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U68	Thank you. Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. I have two proposals. A letter from the Social Democratic Party Group has been received by the Bureau: 'We propose to reject the draft law amending the Private Schools Act at first reading. ' And there is also a letter from the Centre Party Group: 'The Environment Party Group proposes to reject the draft law 343 at first reading. ' We must vote on these proposals. Since they have the same content, I shall put them to the vote at once. Please prepare for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal by the Social Democratic Party Group and the Central Party Group 343 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 31 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 50 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of 343 amendments. 5 March at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U69	The next item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision'Setting up of the Riigikogu Committee on Inquiry' presented by the Estonian Reform Party Group, the Estonian Central Party Group, the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Group, the Social Democratic Party Group and the members of the Riigikogu Rainer Vakra, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laanet and Deniss Borodichi in order to determine illegal transactions involving the VEB Fund. I ask Andres Anvelt, a member of the Riigikogu, to present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to report a draft decision of the Riigikogu 368, the title of which has been slightly modernised in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and which is now talking about setting up a committee of inquiry to find out the circumstances in which the claims made by the VEB Fund have been processed and met. As far as the background is concerned, although the circumstances surrounding the VEB Fund have emerged in the various configurations of the Riigikogu over a few decades, it was the fact that on 16 January 2013 Governor Ardo Hansson asked Eesti Pank for an apology regarding the submission of false statements by the central bank in 1995 that prompted all political groups and non-groups to agree to the initiation of the draft. In particular, the internal audit showed that in 1995 a false-data document was drawn up at the bank, which gave the Russian company TSL International a claim of USD 32 million against the Russian Foreign Economic Bank. The central bank also notes in the audit conclusions that it was not possible to identify who caused the misrepresentation in the letter creation chain. Although all transactions had been restored, it was not possible to identify all of their causes and explanations. Ardo Hansson has also said that the ultimate truth may not be helped by internal audit, as Eesti Pank's competence in collecting information is limited to the house of Eesti Pank. Therefore, the four political groups of the Riigikogu and the members of the Association of Democrats of the Riigikogu, Rainer Vakra, Deniss Borodich, Kalle Laanet and Lembit Kaljuvee, came out with a proposal to set up such a committee of inquiry. The draft proposes the appointment of Mr Andres Anvelt (alternate Neeme Suur), Mr Aivar Riisalu (alternate Heimar Lenk), Mr Väino Linde (alternate Kalle Jents), Mr Marko Pomerants (alternate Priit Sibul) and Mr Rainer Vakra (alternate Deniss Borodich). The initiators of the draft act have maintained four tasks for the Commission: '1) identifying the facts relating to the formation, organisation, management of the state VEB Fund and the transactions carried out during 1993-2012; (2) identifying the losses caused by the transactions carried out by the VEB Fund to the state and private sector companies, as identified by Eesti Pank in 1995; (4) submitting conclusions to the Riigikogu and the public on the operation of the VEB Fund in 1993-2012 and possible offences. ' The initiators of the Commission's decision to set the deadline for the Commission's work on 1 October 2013. As always, the service of the committee is provided by the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. If there are any circumstances that need to be communicated to investigative bodies, it is the Commission's duty to do so. That's all for short.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U71	Thank you. Thank you, Mr Anvelt, for specifying the title. I would like to say, in the interests of the verbatim report, that unfortunately the old title was left in the President's scenario. I repeat that the title of the item approved at the beginning of the week is the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry to determine the circumstances in which the claims are processed and settled by the VEB Fund. So take this correction into the verbatim. Let's get to the questions. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U72	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I am sorry that my knowledge of this subject is mainly based on what I read in the press, and I think I have read a book. In your report, you said that the basis of today's draft is in many respects that the Governor of Eesti Pank has apologized for a letter that has left the bank, and that as a result, there may have been some kind of damage, as your reasoning turned out once again. My thinking leads to the fact that, in theory, if someone has been harmed, the beneficiary of the damage may be a Russian bank, which may have paid out something to someone that should not have been paid. Have you ever thought that the damage might occur somewhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U73	Thank you for your question. Dear colleague, that is one question that the initiators have seen as, at least, a task for the Commission. This is the same as identifying possible losses for both the state and private sector companies. If this issue were clear, there would be no point in setting up a committee of inquiry. The committee of inquiry must identify potential harm victims, if any, and if they do not exist, for example, if there are some seeming transactions or whatever, they must also be clarified on these issues. We'll see about the Commission's final report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U74	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U75	Thank you. Good waitress! How long have you planned this job now? When might the public know the results?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U76	Thank you, my good colleague. As the original signed document shows, the Commission has proposed to submit a final report on the results of the work to the Riigikogu and the public by 1 October 2013 at the latest, after which the mandate of the committee will expire.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U77	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U78	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Since this is a pity, can the damage caused to the state be only material, or is it possible from the perspective of this subject that you will also investigate intangible damage, such as damage to the reputation of the state or something like that? If you're talking about damage, are there only any sums of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U79	Thank you, my good colleague. In fact, point 3 of the draft version of the wider interpretation, which refers to the determination of the damage caused, leaves the details of whether the damage is material or non-material. I do not think that the Commission can go past such issues, but this is my personal opinion on the state's reputation and the reputation of Eesti Pank. One of the tasks of the Commission should be to put a point to the long discussions that have been going on for 20 years and also to bring the various speculations to an end.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U80	No further questions. Thank you very much, Andres Anvelt. Mr Peep Aru, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would like to ask for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U81	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We ourselves have made this draft together, and we have discussed it together in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and we have decided that the wording could be changed a little bit. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that the title of the draft should be amended, as it may, in its original wording, restrict the competence of the committee to be set up. The words 'illegal transaction' in the name and function of the Commission are guiding and already suggesting that the VEB Fund is illegal. Consequently, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs changed the main task of the committee to be set up, which also means changing the title. The new wording is as follows: set up the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry to find out the circumstances in which the VEB Foundation's claims are processed and met. In addition, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has decided to replace the word 'transactions' with 'operations' in subsections 1 to 3 of the draft, as the operation is a broader concept than a transaction pursuant to § 5 of the TÜS. Transactions are included in the operations. We have decided to send a text modified by consensus here today for the first reading. We propose that the first reading be stopped, and we ask for amendments by 5.15 p.m. on 21 February. In addition to the amendments to the text, we discussed the deadline for the Commission's work. We did not reach consensus here, the opinions were different. The Commission looks forward to the amendments; everyone will have the opportunity to submit them, in addition to other matters, on the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U82	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U83	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! When the Commission presented the draft as amended to the House, did you have the consent of all the initiators?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U84	Basically, we had the consent of the four signatory groups, and we also had Deniss Borodichi's view that the Democrats are not opposed to the amendment of the text.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U85	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U86	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I got into the annals here for a while. In June 2004, the then Patriotic Group submitted a draft for the establishment of an analogous committee of inquiry. On 13 October 2004, the Riigikogu rejected this proposal by a majority vote. Consequently, I have the question: what has changed now in the intervening years? Is this the only thing that came out of a document prepared in 1995? Would it not have been more appropriate, however, to set up this committee at the time, perhaps we should not be dealing with this problem today?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U87	Thank you for lifting your tail, but the Riigikogu is free in its decisions. The procedure decides to support it, the procedure rejects it, depends on how political consensus is achieved and the political majority in this Chamber. Of course, every decision-maker must base his decisions on knowledge and conscience.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U88	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U89	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Maybe you'll shed a few words of light on the debate on the deadline in the Commission. What were these suggestions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U90	In principle, the chairman of the committee had the preliminary opinion that 1 October was an inappropriate deadline in the sense that it was just before the elections. Whatever the outcome of the Commission will be, whether anything is found, whether any proposals are made to the investigative bodies, if anything is condemned or if it is said that nothing has been found in any case could be exploited in the pre-election situation. From there began the debate and a number of deadlines flashed through: one was figuratively a Midsummer Day, i.e. June, the other 1st of September, then was 1st of December, then 15th of November. So there were many deadlines and, in the course of preparing for second reading, if amendments are to come, the Commission must make a decision. So we're going to rely on a collective mind-- we're going to find a deadline that's pretty much normal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U91	No further questions. Thank you, Peep Aru! Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of Bill 368. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 368 amendments in s. February 21, 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U92	Today's sixth item is the first reading of the draft amendment to § 11 of the Act on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of a member of the Riigikogu Kalvi Tõik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U93	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I stand before you here with the draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. For many, this bill is familiar with the previous composition of the Riigikogu, because the Social Democratic Party Group brings this bill here for the third time. A little courage to come to this hall this time gave us the Minister of Agriculture's recent statements. He also thinks that specially labelled diesel could be used in emergency situations and that the amporate of this fuel could be extended to open up the discussion. So I am encouragingly looking towards the IRL Group sitting on the right side of our Chamber, who could certainly support this bill. What is the content of this very simple bill? In short, with this amendment, we would allow blue diesel, or specially labelled diesel, to be used in agricultural machinery even outside agricultural work, i.e. in emergency and rescue operations. This is where the crisis committees referred to in §§ 3, 4 and 5 of the Emergency Act are either free state, county or local government crisis committees. So, what's short? I dare say from this chair that I myself have broken the law on the use of special-marked diesel. Yes, with my agricultural tractor, I have cleaned up my yard and the area I need to have a farm to exist after a big blizzard. I've also pushed the snow away from the neighbor's man and maybe another villager's yard without paying for it. I've known it was against the law. I also know that a lot of farmers do the same, but I know they do it with a heavy heart. I haven't heard of any cases where the Tax and Customs Board imposed a fine in such a situation. If they had, they would certainly have done so with a very heavy heart. As a result of rural man's wisdom, it is a proposal to resolve this situation when we know that in a crisis situation in a village, in a local government, farmers are going to help their neighbours anyway. We will eliminate the problem and promise to do so once the local government has declared an emergency! Dear friends, if you wish, this bill can be made better with amendments, but I think it is a very necessary draft. As a result, I would like your support for this draft law to remain in the process, reach a second reading and be passed as a law. I'm waiting for your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U94	The questions will come soon. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I understand that you have dealt with this problem very thoroughly, you have dealt with it more than anyone else, and for that you have, of course, accepted it! But tell me something you said about it, but I'm asking you how many cases there have been where the Tax and Customs Board has assigned a specially labelled fuel for snow cleaning to the user, either to pay the tax or to apply the sanctions provided for in the administrative procedure. How many cases have there been in the past?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U96	A good colleague, although we have dealt with this issue, I do not have these figures here today. It should also be said that the Social Democrats certainly do not want anyone to use specially labelled diesel for snow control under normal circumstances. This would undoubtedly be a distortion of fair competition. We're talking about emergencies, crisis situations. I do not know how many times in an emergency, when the roads are about, the farmers have gone to the aid of their neighbours to clear the road from the snow before the snow control organised by the local government reaches their village or their courtyard in its usual circle. I can't say the bill, we don't have the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U97	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This amendment would allow the decision of the Government of the Republic's Crisis Committee, the Regional Crisis Committee and the Local Government Crisis Committee to use specially labelled fuel. The example you gave that you went after the big blizzard to help the neighbor is not exactly that example. The bill under discussion wouldn't solve the problem like you had. What's your comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U99	Thank you, my good colleague. It is known that such self-righteous decisions cannot be made by a person in a democratic country. This decision cannot really be taken by me, no neighbor, no village chief. That is why the law states that this can be done by the Crisis Committee, the Crisis Committee of the Local Government. We know there aren't a lot of situations like this in the regulars. This winter, there was perhaps only one day in South Estonia when there was no more mere snowfall, but a pretty crazy blizzard. There are situations like this one or two days in the winter, as well. I'm going to expand this amporate a little bit. Traditional snow-fighting workers who make snow-fighting for the local government under contract do not replace pure fuel with blue fuel in their tractor fuel tanks for this one or two days. It doesn't make sense. I've had to take fuel out of the tractor tank. It's a very big job.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U100	Thank you. Please, Meelis Mälberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U101	Thank you. Good waitress! The question is this: can you tell me how often there are situations where a local authority announces a crisis situation? Do you have any examples that the local government has declared a crisis? You yourself are a former parish elder. How many times have you had to do this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U102	Thank you, my good colleague. The announcement of a crisis in a local government, region or country is not an easy decision, which comes immediately in such a way that, with very superficial arguments, we are declaring a crisis. I personally have not declared a crisis situation in the municipality, and there has been no reason for it. No local authority will certainly make this decision lightly, as it will have to admit a little bit that it is not on schedule with its labour resources or contracts, is unable to comply with the agreement and people are in trouble. I think that these decisions will come very hard and prudently and will not be many. We all remember the last few years, one, two, maximum twice in winter, when we are really talking about the special circumstances caused by the snow.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U103	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U104	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! When you consulted someone during the drafting phase, as I assume, did you also have a discussion about eliminating specially labelled fuel in Estonia so that there would be no such painting of fuel? The fewer differences, the easier it would be for Estonian society, including farmers. Perhaps it is worth thinking about supporting those who really need support or, let's say, low-rate fuel? Other measures could be taken to avoid fuel painting and to switch to a simpler and clearer system. I have a feeling that what you are suggesting today and what you are trying to sell to us in a good way is, in fact, the creation of another distinction. Have you thought about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U105	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U106	Thank you. We have thought about this as you have done in the coalition agreement, this point is inside, as far as I know, and we are very quick and willing to participate in this discussion. The Minister of Agriculture has already pointed out on several occasions in the media that he will come up with such a 'package'. It has its pros and cons.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Do you agree with me that limiting the decisions of the crisis committee does not really solve the problems of snow control in rural areas in the event of an emergency?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U108	Thank you. Yes, I cannot say that limiting the decisions of the Committee on Crisis is the best solution, but the draft is now at first reading and we all have the opportunity to table amendments before the second reading in order to improve the law. This is one way of regulating many of these so-called self-righteous decisions, i.e. it is not for me to take the decision that this ten centimeters of snow that can cause a crisis, but that the decision is taken collectively at the local government level, so that every tractor cannot make that decision itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U109	Thank you. Please, Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U110	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear colleague Kalvi! Life has gone so far that I have had to be a member of the Regional Crisis Committee for a few years. It seems to me that this bill is irrational. Why don't you help me get rid of that feeling? Let's imagine when the emergency law announces a crisis and we all have to go out. In fact, local governments have people in their crisis plans who will push you open. These are, above all, the same people who are still pushing you open, and they are doing it with white fuel. It seems to me that this bill is irrational, but maybe you'll disprove my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U111	Thank you, my good colleague. Perhaps it may seem irrational in the eyes of the Regional Crisis Committee, because it can also be very different at the local government level, with different snow conditions. Let's have a little talk about Võrumaa. The snow conditions of Urvaste are totally different from the snow conditions of Haanja, Rõuge Haanja side and the northern tip of Vastseliina. There are differences between them. Here is the possibility that we will increase the number of people who are willing to drive their tractor out of the grain storage in a crisis situation, from the potato storage, from the barn, from the tractor's snow control technology and come to help. Right now, they're not gonna change fuel, maybe they're gonna come to help, knowing they're breaking the law. They'll be here for an hour or two with the technique that may be needed at this very moment, with a loader bucket. In a traditional situation, snow control does not need a loader pad, it comes into play in a crisis situation, and this can be decided by the local government whether or not there is a crisis situation. I would very much like to believe that none of the municipalities should ever declare a crisis situation, because they are also able to deal with the usual regulations so that there are no such big snowstorms. Life, however, is something else entirely.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U112	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U113	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The key issue here is how law-abiding we are. I listened to my colleagues' questions about how many times the Tax and Customs Board fined someone. It's like the Tax and Customs Board doesn't have to comply with the law, and it's supposed to keep an eye on it. On the other hand, it is whether farmers should deal with what is forbidden. It's a matter of compliance with the law. I think this bill would help clarify the matter and no one should break the law. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U114	Yes, good colleague Tarmo! That is why we have brought the bill before our colleagues here to fill this current hole, an empty space. When we clean up our territory after a crazy blizzard, we may use blue fuel if we are farmers, but we are willing to contribute a little more to the crisis without paying the price and come to the local authorities to help regulate the crisis situation. If there is no crisis situation, the normal regulation will apply and the tractor that is working on snow cleaning under the local government contract will reach our yard quite quickly. In a crisis situation, it may take him hours, worse days.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U115	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U116	Thank you. Just to clarify that since 1992 no local government, region or state has declared any special situation in Estonia. We hope that this will not be done in the future, because life is good. This draft slightly restricts action, as the rescue manager still has the legal right to send out special-fuel equipment during rescue operations. The draft under discussion excludes this and gives such a right only to the Crisis Committee. Hence my question: does every municipality currently have a crisis committee under Estonian law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U117	Dear colleague, I would not debate crisis situations with you because I am definitely the weak side here. I think that, by law, the crisis committee must be, whether it actually exists anywhere, I dare doubt that. But there must be plans and contingency descriptions. However, thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U118	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, You say in the explanatory memorandum that there is quite a public interest in this draft. Let me ask you a little more specific. Do you have an overview of how many Estonian municipalities are looking forward to legitimising this draft now? Take out the larger cities, stays a little over 200 local authorities, have you had any communication on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U120	Thank you. I think we know exactly what the local public interest in snow control is in September. With winter weather like today, when there is a beautiful, nicely thick snow carpet on the ground, we can manage in a blizzard situation, and the public interest in this bill is not great. However, when the blizzard was overnight and there were big blizzards last year, many local authorities, I mean South Estonia, approached me with the question of how the use of this blue fuel in snow cleaning works is. This public interest and need arise especially in changing weather conditions and during large-scale blizzards.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U121	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U122	Thank you very much. Good colleague! You have proposed a grateful legislative amendment, but as you remember, the government already made such a preconceived promise in May 2011 that the regime for the use of specially labelled fuel would be changed. We look forward to it until today and nothing has changed. You were talking about how hard-hearted someone makes a ticket or snow pushes it could be, and it could be different. I can tell you, there are two fines in Põlva County that have been paid. As I recall, it must have been 2010. How long do you think it's gonna take to develop this order?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U123	Dear colleague Esther, I do not know how long it will be for the government to develop the new regime that they have promised in the coalition agreement. I'll also bring up a problem area if we don't paint the fuel anymore. Our neighbours in Latvia have a procedure where there is no specially labelled fuel, but farmers are paid per hectare of support to compensate for fuel excise duties. In the European Union, agricultural payments do not depend on the type of production. If we do not paint the fuel, if we lose the special-marked diesel and switch to the support system, then we will have a hectare-based subsidy. This means that a so-called eurograss farmer, or a farmer who breaks hay on a field, receives fuel compensation at the same rate as a farmer who grows vegetables or cereals. Here, before we really change the system, there is a 'European' kneading, and there is another way to seek some sort of distinction so that our active farmers can benefit from a more favourable rate of support. I do not think that this drive towards Europe has yet been done as well as this draft law is in front of us today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U124	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! At times, it seems to me that with some law or law amendment, we may be trying to over-regulate simple or ordinary things. In this case, would it not be easier to give more discretion to the Tax and Customs Board, not only in the case of blizzards, but in exceptional cases to allow the use of this blue fuel? Wouldn't that be an easier option? I'm just asking for my education.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U126	Thank you, my good colleague. Yeah, that's one way too. I'm describing a situation in life. The farmer, rolling his field off in the morning, put a wooden cutting machine behind the tractor in the evening, since spring is mostly the time of rolling the field and making the firewood for the following year. He rigged the tractor with a log machine and took it back to his pile of wood in his home. The tractor got in the way, didn't work, was just in the back, was in the power grid, and cut trees. An employee of the Customs and Tax Board came and fined this farmer. Yes, there is discretion, but it took this farmer in Võrumaa a beautiful spring day in Tartu at the Tax and Customs Board to prove that he was not driving this tractor. The whole day was ruined. He did not have to pay the fine, but because of his discretion, a man in Võrumaa had to be sacrificed one whole day during an expensive spring farming season. It was a big exit for him.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U127	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U128	Thank you. Good performer! We are really glad that this bill is back in the hall. The Central Party Group has also come up with similar things, because we also did not like the situation in which a person is being forced to break the law, whether or not he gets these sanctions. Indeed, the tax administration has not imposed massive fines, but individual ones. Do you think right now it seems like the right side of the hall is used to doing things that might not get caught?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U129	I don't think so. Knowing colleagues from both the right side and the left side of the hall, I think that no one is deliberately calling anyone directly to break the law, and no one is breaking the law themselves. I very much hope that we will make this small amendment to the law and eliminate this unpleasantness. I sincerely believe that my fellow Members will support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U130	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. I would like to ask Peter Laurson, Member of the Finance Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U131	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft amendment to § 11 of the Liquid Fuel Special Labelling Act 333 at its meeting on 12 February. The draft was presented by Rannar Vassilyev, a member of the Social Democratic Party Group. Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy, who presented the opinion and views of the Government of the Republic, was present at the Ministry of Finance. The purpose of the draft is to allow the decision of the Government of the Republic's Crisis Committee, the Regional Crisis Committee and the Local Government Crisis Committee to use specially labelled fuel in an agricultural machine when the machine is involved in emergency management and rescue operations. There was a serious debate in the Commission, and the questions that were raised have already sounded in many respects in this Chamber. It was found that the initiator of the draft could not quite pinpoint the number of situations where the crisis committee had to take decisions on the use of special-marked fuel, how to define the crisis at all, and whether the need for a decision by the crisis committee would not run counter to other competition principles would not lead to unequal competition. At the same time, it was said that, should there be a need to exchange fuel in a crisis, it would be very cumbersome and difficult and not even conceivable to resolve the crisis. A representative of the Ministry of Finance said that if specially labelled fuel has been used in certain difficult circumstances, no one has been punished so far. The Law's eyes have taken a reasonable and understanding view of this. The positions of the ministries had also come to the Commission. The Ministry of the Interior broadly agrees with the problem presented in the draft explanatory memorandum, but also points out that § 20 of the Rescue Act provides as a measure for the compulsory use of a case under which a manager of a rescue or mine clearance operation may take water, sand, gravel and other substances, materials, equipment and equipment necessary for rescue or mine clearance work, where this is strictly necessary for rescue or mine clearance work and other means of forced use are missing or would be unreasonable. Paragraph 19 of the Rescue Act also provides an opportunity to apply a person to rescue work. Since specialty diesel is also a substance and the Rescue Act allows for the decision to be taken by the rescue director, it is not necessary to provide for speciality in the case of rescue work in draft 333. This was the position of the Ministry of the Interior, but the problem was viewed positively. In principle, the Ministry of Agriculture supports the creation of opportunities for the use of specially labelled fuel. At the same time, this issue has been discussed before, and the Ministry of Agriculture considers that the requirements for farmers on the use of this fuel laid down in the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel Act require a more flexible approach and far more extensive changes, and this legislative amendment would not solve the situation. On 29 November 2012, the Ministry of Agriculture proposed to the Ministry of Finance that this situation be dealt with more broadly and that a more comprehensive solution be found. It's being dealt with. The comments of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications on the subject were, in principle, positive. However, as the draft restricts action very narrowly with the decisions of the crisis committees, the Government of the Republic in its opinion, also pointing to some other elements that could create unequal competition, did not support the draft in its proposed form. The Commission took the following decisions: the draft will be submitted in the Chamber by Peeter Laurson, the proposal is to put the draft on the agenda on Tuesday 19 February 2013 and to reject it at first reading. There were 6 votes in favour and 4 members of the Commission against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U132	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! I'm going to ask the same question that was asked me in this hall earlier. Have you, outside the discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, also addressed the issue of fuel-specific labelling as a whole? Have you discussed that it cannot be used for forest work, but can be used for agricultural work? The field and the forest go together in many farms. What about this, is there gonna be a change, is there gonna be a change, so we're gonna stop painting it? What have you discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U134	I am only a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs since last autumn, but this has certainly been discussed in the past. The explanatory notes and the documents submitted by the Ministry show that the Ministry of Agriculture has also proposed to the Ministry of Finance how the matter could be resolved. The subject is complicated, as you yourself pointed out. You thought it would be possible to solve the problem in a case where you are going to help your neighbor in the event of a serious snowfall, but, as you have even stated, no crisis committee will decide that you can go to the neighbor's aid. However, the draft is very narrow and does not solve the situation at all. The solution would probably be, for example, to lose specially labelled fuel and compensate farmers, either on a per hectare basis or in some other way, but it needs to be further developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U135	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Whether it is a crisis or a normal situation, pushing snow on the ground is a necessity. And the fact is, according to the law, the technology used to drive snow cannot use specially labelled fuel. In a recent debate here, the Minister for Agriculture said that if there have been cases where the Tax and Customs Board has issued a ticket, he would ask to be informed. My question to you is very simple. Do you consider this situation to be normal, and if so, how long will it last? Or maybe that's how you think it's gonna stay.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U137	Surely this cannot remain the case. As I have already said, this is being dealt with in ministries since last autumn. The bill we have on this table today is certainly not going to solve the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U138	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U139	Thank you. Each bill may have shortcomings that can be eliminated. There have been many debates on this subject in this Chamber over the years, as well as various proposals. I ask you this: do you have the feeling, by looking at the Committee on Monetary Affairs and following this debate, that this simple draft, which would solve a real problem, is too complicated as a draft, or are all the farmers who plow their tractor in the winter in your imagination criminals?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U140	This draft, which has been brought here today, is rather too simple to approve. This would not solve the current problems of farmers with the opening of roads. Rather, the draft is based on personal opinion and has been quite superficially worked out. I hope that the solutions that are being developed in the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture will be more sustainable and will not lead to two-way thinking and misuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U141	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U142	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! As I understand it, the ministries considered this draft to be a positive initiative. One side of my question is that why this draft cannot be used as a basis and work on issues in this area further. Secondly, can you tell me when the Ministry of Finance should come up with proposals or positions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U143	Thank you. As proposed in this draft, it is already possible to grant permits. As I said, the Ministry of the Interior has pointed out that under the Rescue Act, the decision to take the case for forced use may be taken by the rescue director, and that includes the substance in the tractor tank. If there is a crisis situation and the head of the crisis committee considers it necessary to make such a decision, he may already make that decision in any way or otherwise. From the point of view of the proposed draft, it is still possible to use this fuel. However, the problem is much more broad and requires a more thorough discussion, i.e. how the specially labelled fuel placed on agricultural machinery could be used to push snow or what the compensation mechanism and method would be if the fuel was not specially labelled. It's not that easy to solve with one sentence. The problem that has been mentioned in the draft is not even present.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U144	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You stressed in your report that these issues need to be resolved in a comprehensive manner and that what the draft intends to do concerns an individual case. As is known, there is an amendment to the previous January 2012 which prohibits the use of specially labelled fuel in stationary engines in forestry, mining, construction. During the procedure for this draft, were the effects that have already been brought about by this change also discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs or in cooperation with the Ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U146	No, they didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U147	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U148	Thank you, Madam President. Austet waitress! Does the Committee on Monetary Affairs really accept a situation where we all know in silence that a farmer is breaking the law using blue fuel and then a tax and customs officer is breaking the law and is not punishing a farmer who broke the law? Is this anarchy an end in itself? How can we leave holes in the law, smooth them out at the discretion of the officials? Do you have a better plan to deal with the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U149	For several times, I will say that the draft that we are discussing today is absolutely not even necessary. The Head of the Crisis Committee shall be able, by decision, to authorise the use of specially labelled fuel where necessary in a crisis situation. The situation that the draft tabled on the table is trying to resolve is already regulated. What is more serious is how to regulate the use of agricultural machinery at all when pushing snow so that there is no need to change fuel. The exchange of fuel is actually a major problem and often businesses and farmers in areas where snow is needed find it difficult to participate in procurement too, because they should pump fuel out of their machines. Consideration should be given to the loss of special-marked fuel and the overall start of compensating for certain work done either by pushing snow or in agriculture at all. Compensation mechanisms should be found or, if specially labelled fuel is used, differences should be defined. These issues will be dealt with and I think a sensible solution will soon be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U150	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U151	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! In fact, this problem has been addressed since at least 2011. You yourself also acknowledge that there is a problem, but the draft of the Centre Party Group did not suit you to solve the problem, and today's draft of the Social Democrats does not seem to be suitable. At the same time, you are saying that the subject is being dealt with, that something is being developed somewhere. Please tell me when the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture will come up with these proposals. You and the Minister of Agriculture are part of a political party, and you will certainly be able to discuss the matter with him if you have not done so until now. When is this day when Parliament will be able to resolve this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U152	This was not discussed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U153	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Peter Laurson. Let's open the negotiations. Kalev Eagle has expressed its wish to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is indeed at least the third time that Social Democrats try to better regulate the use of specially labelled fuel when pushing snow. With this bill, the back is now figuratively against the wall. There is nowhere to retreat now, because this bill will only allow the use of blue fuel once the crisis committee has declared an emergency and the state cannot control the situation by its own means. In today's debate, we focused too much on a snowy winter, but let us remind you that a few winters ago we all learned a painful lesson in Pada Valley. Because of the real danger to people's lives and health, farmers came to the first invitation to help with their machines. Nobody said sorry, I'm switching fuel today, and I'm coming tomorrow, even though everyone involved knew they were breaking the law. The country has suggested that the farmers who came to the aid choose whether to be sane or to be law - abiding. Fortunately, farmers chose this first option, common sense, because there was a real threat to people's lives and health. After that, the state also put in tanks the employees of the Tax and Customs Board, who did not punish farmers who broke the law in violation of the law. Such anarchy of law should not be allowed by a cultural state. That is why this bill is needed so that certain special situations are also regulated by law and that the problems arising from the loopholes of the law are not left to the decision and responsibility of the officials. It is pathetic to follow the 'point-picking' of two government members on this issue from the media. If the Minister for Agriculture does not support the draft because it regulates the area too narrowly and should allow the use of blue fuel to be allowed even more widely, then it remains to be asked why he did not support our earlier drafts, which was exactly the case. The Minister of Finance gives a number of absurd reasons on behalf of the Government for not supporting the draft. I quote: 'Insofar as the draft also gives the municipal crisis committee the right to authorise the use of diesel specially labelled in an emergency, this will create flexible possibilities for interpretation of the emergency. " Perhaps the government is afraid that local governments will start declaring emergencies in their administrative territory from 1 December to 1 April each year. It's an embarrassing motion of distrust towards the municipalities. More pearls from that sheet. It is claimed that revenue from the state budget will be reduced and that the use of fossil fuel will have negative environmental impacts at all. So the problem for government accountants is that 10 euros of additional excise revenue will not be collected due to the rescue work in Padaoru, and additional amounts of exhaust gas may be released into the atmosphere from farmers' tractors. It is further argued that the draft creates an unequal competitive situation. I'm sorry! Those farmers who went to the Pada valley went to help the country, not to compete with the country. Farmers have shown an entire peasantry, now it's Riigikogu! Honourable coalition! We call on you to support this bill, because it is not only your uniform but the Riigikogu as a whole that is at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-19_U155	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 333. We must vote on this proposal. Let's start preparing the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 333. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, with 31 abstentions. Draft 333 has been rejected at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted. I wish everyone a beautiful day! Closure of the sitting at 12.09 p.m.
