ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-14_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Happy Valentine's Day, everybody! [[Let's hear it.]] That means we're all friendly today. We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, who would like to pass on drafts and enquiries? Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-14_U2	I will report an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas, in connection with the hospital reform in southern Estonia, or in Estonia as a whole. The reform is particularly difficult for the hospitals in South-East Estonia, the hospitals in Põlva, Võru and Valga, which want to turn the county hospitals into local hospitals. This means closing maternity and surgery units, reducing on-call doctors, restructuring ambulances, etc. We have a series of questions here, and maybe we can get the minister's answer on what happens to these hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-14_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-14_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, have a lovely Valentine's Day for all of you. I am honoured and happy to hand over the draft 'Law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia to change the procedure for electing the President of the Republic' on behalf of the 21 members of the Central Party Group, that is to say in clear Estonian, this proposal is to transfer the right to elect the President from the Riigikogu to the hands of the people. I believe that the more senior members of the Riigikogu know how many times the President's direct election has been a topic of discussion and discussion in this house. This topic came up significantly after the initiative of President Meri and also of President Rüütel, so that the people can choose the President directly in Estonia. Several political parties and politicians have been in favour of introducing this system over time, but after a while, it has been redesigned. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Centre Party Group believe that this step now needs to be taken and the issue reopened. The direct election of the President was, by the way, one of the topics that repeatedly sounded in the public assembly and gained support there. Of course, you can object to me that the President does not have any substantive power and that he is merely a representative figure, that is also dependent on the person who is currently the President, but, in fact, this position has great symbolic significance for the people. This would be a fair way for the people to choose the Head of State. I will hand over the draft Constitutional Amendment Act on behalf of 21 members of the Central Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-14_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted one bill and one inquiry. If the draft law complies with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on this procedure within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. Now the messages. I have forwarded questions from the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and to the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimitus. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, today, after the plenary session, there will be the formation of a parliamentary group of the Republic of Korea in the Chamber. The team shall be convened by Urve Tiidus. Please, let's do the presence check! 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-14_U6	Today's agenda includes the third reading of the draft law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. Let's start the negotiations. I would first like to call on the speaker's colleague Aivar Koka as a representative of the Isamaa and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-14_U7	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Agriculture has traditionally played a very important and important role in rural areas. We can quite confidently say that Estonian farmers are among the best managers in the context of the European Union, because despite the larger direct payments from foreign competitors, our producers have been able to compete successfully. Without shame, it can be said that Estonian agriculture is one of the most progressive in Europe. It is important to understand that agricultural subsidies are primarily in the interests of consumers and not producers. Producers would also produce their goods without subsidies, but then all food prices would be printed with much larger numbers on the counter. It is thanks to subsidies that domestic food can be produced in Europe at an affordable price for the widest possible consumer population. Over the last few years, Estonia's agricultural policy has focused on providing us with larger subsidies. This would enable Estonians to achieve more equal opportunities in the market with their Western European counterparts and to ensure the lowest possible cost of the food basket. This fight, which was waged in view of 2014, when the new financial perspective of the European Union starts and new levels of support are in place, has been successful. I hope that the Riigikogu's statement on the reform of Estonian agriculture and the common agricultural policy of the European Union, which was adopted in this Chamber on 21 November last year, also helped to make progress in this fight. But you have to survive this year. According to the Treaty of Accession to the European Union, in 2004-2012 Estonian farmers could receive additional direct support from the state budget. The growth of arable crops, milk production, additional direct payments for cattle and sheep production in the various production sectors accounted for a significant part of the cash flow to the agricultural sector and the end of these payments would reduce the total amount of subsidies by almost 30% in 2013. Depending on the structure of the production, the fall in the income of a particular company may be even greater. As a result of Estonia's good fight, the European Commission promised last summer that Estonia could also pay direct payments to farmers from its budget this year in order to compensate for the difference resulting from the European Union's smaller subsidies to us. I would point out here that, under the original agreement, the payment of national direct payments would have been prohibited this year, but thanks to the good explanation given by farmers and the Minister for Agriculture in the European direction, this ban was postponed for a year. Support for national agriculture has kept agriculture here competitive since 2004 when Estonia joined the European Union. We can say that this is unfair to us, but it has been a solution to ensure that our producers have a much more level playing field with Western European competitors who receive on average more than twice as much support as Estonian farmers. Since the payment of the top-up is not an obligation for Estonia, but a right, there has been a political discussion of this budget line every autumn. There are those who would rather see national direct payments not paid, but so far they have remained in a minority. As Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu, I know how necessary it is to continue paying the national contribution. It is good to know that this is also our group in the Riigikogu and the Minister of Agriculture in the Government. We have paid this support every year in the European Union, even in those years when the state budget had to be severely cut. The good course of agricultural production in Estonia has been a priority for the state and it would be incomprehensible if this were not the case this year. Our farmers could manage without any subsidies, but if the state left them with their support, they would be even worse off than their competitors. I don't think that's what we want. What happens if we do not pay for national support this year? It is difficult to predict what would happen to one or another particular farm or farm, because the economic situation of companies is different. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-14_U8	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-14_U9	In general, smaller production units, which are more vulnerable than market developments, would face difficulties. At the same time, larger producers would also suffer injury, which would therefore not have the strength to buy together small producers leaving the market. The result is an ever-increasing influx of foreign capital into the industry, which we are accustomed to regard as an inheritance of Estonians. I think that these close to 25 million euros, which is, of course, a large amount of money, are small money at the same time when life and death of many Estonian farms are at stake. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that the law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy adopted today aims to ensure transitional payments for farmers in 2013. This will also provide an opportunity to provide farmers with additional direct payments from the state budget in 2013. According to the Treaty on Accession to the European Union, the country could pay additional direct payments in 2004-2012, but last summer the possibility of granting transitional support was created this year as well. Transitional support will ensure a smooth transition to the new direct payment system for the next funding period 2014 to 2020. It should be stressed here that transitional support is paid to the same sectors and on the basis of the same requirements as the additional direct payment in 2012. By adopting this draft as a law, we will prevent the deterioration of the economic situation of farmers and the loss of competitiveness in 2013. The transitional payment will allow us to equalise the conditions of our farmers and farmers in other countries. The allocation of nearly 25 million euros from the state budget to pay transitional grants demonstrates the importance of agriculture for the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-14_U10	Thank you very much, Mr Aivar Kokk. I would like to ask for a speech chair as representative of the Meelis Mälberg Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-14_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The procedure started a month ago today in the final vote on the draft law aims to ensure a smooth transition for our farmers to the next funding period of the European Union in 2014‐2020. The authorisation given by the European Commission to grant transitional national support in 2013 is like the coming of a match with our own money, because most countries in the European Union can pay it out of a common budget. But, of course, we will take this opportunity because it will alleviate the slightly unequal conditions of competition in which our producers operate. A month ago, when this bill reached our tables, we did not know what the outcome of the negotiations of the newly concluded Council would be for Estonia, what future direct payments for farmers would be. We did not even know whether an agreement could be reached at all and whether the European Union would receive new long-term funding from 2014. There was a very real risk that even if an agreement was reached, farmers would have to tighten their belts in 2014 and 2015 because, according to the plan so far proposed to us, direct payments would have decreased by about EUR 15 million and without the right to pay the top-up themselves. Today we know that the Prime Minister returned from the Council with a national envelope that fulfilled all of Estonia's objectives, and the biggest winner is our farmer. In the new financing period, the unequal treatment resulting from differences in direct payments for agriculture will be reduced. The competitive conditions of Baltic farmers are improving. Although we have not finally managed to overcome inequalities, farmers can rejoice. Direct support for agricultural support paid from the European Union budget to Estonia will increase twice in the new budget period 2014 to 2020. So far, it was about EUR 500 million, with a new amount of EUR 1 billion. From EUR 143 per hectare in 2013, direct aid will increase to EUR 196. The cherry cake has reached an agreement in the last round of negotiations that there will be no fall in the level of support that threatened in 2014 and 2015 and instead of the EUR 15 million needed to cover the fall, we have received EUR 50 million for rural development, with which this hole can be levelled. Our negotiators, led by the Prime Minister, did their work on the grade'very good' in Brussels. This good result, however, was preceded by a long preparatory work which proved that, if necessary, we could unite and work together to achieve a common goal. Farmers and their representative organisations made their demands very clear and consistently communicated their message with the perseverance of the rural man, both in Estonia and in Europe. Hundreds of hardworking officials in Estonia and Brussels constantly explained and specified our positions. Our President and ministers stressed the need for equal treatment at all possible meetings. We also contributed from this Chamber by making a statement with the Latvian and Lithuanian Parliament in support of the agricultural sector. A good result was not born overnight, and good negotiating skills alone are certainly not enough. Estonia now has the reputation of a constructive country in the European Union. We have kept our public spending under control and have been able to use the European Union's money efficiently and efficiently. Therefore, our concerns and desires are not taken in a condescending way. The image of Estonia is pragmatic and aimed at cooperation. It's easy to find allies and partners on this surface. Baltic cooperation became a new dimension. Our interests fell almost completely in the budget negotiations; we alone would not have achieved our goals. Can I have one more minute, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-14_U12	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-14_U13	It remains to be hoped that the new budget will soon also be approved by the European Parliament, and that our farmers will have more certainty for the future and more equal support for the common market. Estonian agriculture is very competitive and sustainable and could certainly manage without any subsidies, however, if no subsidies are paid to anyone or anywhere. As long as the subsidies distort the free market, the Reform Party will stand firm for Estonian farmers to have equal conditions of competition with their European counterparts. That is why we supported the payment of transitional subsidies in the process of processing the state budget, and we support this draft now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-14_U14	Thank you very much, Mr Mälberg. As a representative of the Group of the Centre Party of the Ester Tuiksoo, I would like to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-14_U15	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to wish you a happy Valentine's Day, and I will also try to speak kindly here about the future of agriculture. We have already welcomed the news from Europe and the previous speakers have talked about it for a long time. Yes, indeed, when we started working on this bill, we didn't know everything. Today we already have some really good news, and I'm sure all the parties here have contributed. Perhaps the ear is affected by the fact that other Baltic ministers are making accusations to Estonia, that Estonia has not been sufficiently cooperative or has not shown sufficient initiative in the negotiations in Brussels. How it really was, we don't know, but at least the result is more or less satisfactory or maybe a little better. Much has been said about direct payments. We wanted to receive 90% of the European Union's average per hectare aid; almost 75% is now allowed, but it is only for the last period, i.e. by 2020. Let us not forget that it will take so long for direct payments per hectare to rise, but it will still be less than 75%. In addition to direct payments, the focus should be on how to draw up a new rural development plan. We have heard the Minister's mouth through a sum of EUR 761 million. With the rural development plan, we need to ensure that the agricultural sector receives sufficient investment and is able to compete in the European Union's common market. From 2015 onwards, the milk quota will be abolished, which will make the dairy market more free and open to competition, and our milk producers will also have to compete with farmers in well-capitalised countries. When laying down restrictions on the rural development plan, or MAK investment aid, it is essential to take account of the existing potential of farms, as there has been a great deal of investment in this sector. In the case of support for the development of smaller farms, the conditions of the measure should be clearly understood as being business support, not social support. Investment support policies must aim at the development of agricultural enterprises and job security, which is why support for investment must be based on the long-term competitiveness of enterprises, investment capacity and objective economic indicators. The development of the new MAK must be guided by the strategic objectives set, so that investments that have a greater impact on Estonian agriculture and also on the economy as a whole are preferred. Instead of investing in technology, investment in agricultural buildings and related technologies should be preferred. It is not right that the Ministry of Agriculture's current proposal to divide producers into size groups on the basis of revenue from sales, as well as the proposal to limit the maximum amount of aid. Comparing the sales revenue of different companies between them is not a fair view of production results, as the value of production produced in different sectors varies. Support rates should remain at the level of the current period. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-14_U16	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-14_U17	Since Member States are required to define in the rural development plans an enterprise that is eligible for aid and does not exceed a certain amount, the maximum amount of aid should be determined on the basis of the definition of small and medium-sized enterprises in the European Union, at least this would also be relevant for agriculture. The proposal for a government coalition is to take a responsible approach to the preparation of the new rural development plan. A farmer who guarantees the Estonian people with domestic food must remain a priority. The Estonian Central Party Group supports the Estonian farmer and this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-14_U18	Thank you very much, Mr Tuiksoo. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. We can go to the final vote on the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the final vote a draft law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 348. Please vote! 72 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. Ladies and gentlemen, Valentine's Day is the end of our sitting. Closure of the sitting at 10:26 a.m.
