ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the sixth working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, I will report an inquiry to Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher. This time, the inquiry concerns a lack of internal control in the Defence Police Department. You know, colleagues, there's an expression like 'Potemkin village'. It was invented by a French diplomat, but it exists in many languages. At the moment, I have the idea that this is another Potjomkin village in contact with the Ministry of the Interior, especially the Minister of the Interior. If the minister stands here in the stands, it turns out that corruption is only in local governments in Estonia. This issue is used to put down its political competitors, to deliberately blackmail Ida-Virumaa and specifically Narva. One particular case and all cases that have been brought before the Court but have not even been settled. At the same time, if you are trying to ask me about something that's going on at the Home Office or the Treasury, everything will be done to protect your partymates. Nevertheless, I will present this question, giving Mrs Ergma the opportunity to show once again who has her sympathy when she sends back this question and leaves the public without a public debate on this extremely important subject. We need to know how corruption has occurred among those who should fight corruption in society, with which these cases have ended, and with what assumption that they will not happen again in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Now the messages. Wednesday, s. On 27 February, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now making a presence check. Currently 85 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 16 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U4	We are going to address today's agenda items. The first item is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO Permanent Navy Group." Ülo Tulik, Member of the National Defence Commission, will present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft Decision was completed in s. a February 19th. The deadline for submitting amendments was 21pm at 10.30 pm. No amendments were tabled to the draft decision, which is why the text of the draft decision at first reading should be used as the basis for the second reading of the draft decision. According to the draft, Estonian Defence Forces participate in German warships in the composition of the NATO Permanent Marine Group 1 (SNMG 1). In doing so, Estonia fulfils its allied obligations arising from its NATO membership. Participation in NATO groups has been one of the most important outputs for the navy for years, which is why preparation of the units has reached a very high level and has also been assessed by the allies. The Government of the Republic discussed the draft decision in its s. At its meeting on 14 February 2004 and decided to support it. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft decision before the second reading in its s. on 21 February 2005 at the meeting. At its meeting, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to approve the draft explanatory memorandum of second reading and to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the second reading of the 377 draft Riigikogu decision be placed on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 26 February 2013. On 21 February, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu's Law on Home and Working Procedures, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the plenary that the second reading of this draft Riigikogu's decision be terminated, that the draft be put to the final vote and that the Riigikogu adopt it as a decision. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U6	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Ülo Tulik! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments to the draft were received. The commission's proposal was that the second reading of draft 377 should be completed and adopted as a decision. We are preparing for the final vote. Good Riigikogu, I will vote on the final vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO Permanent Navy Group" 377. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U7	Today's second item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of a member of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U8	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will brief you on the content of this draft. Namely, there are two children's hospitals in Estonia, one at the University of Tartu Hospital (this is not a pure children's hospital in economic terms, because there is a large hospital complex) and the other is a children's hospital where only children are served. It is located in Mustamäe, Tallinn, and its name is Tallinn Children's Hospital. Tallinn Children's Hospital does not charge patients a visit fee. Until then, this mechanism worked so that Tallinn compensated the hospital for half of the visit fee (1 euro 60 cents per child). In the light of a medical strike, the Government of the Republic made a clear commitment to raise medical salaries. We all remember this strike and these intense tripartite negotiations, one of which was the Hospital Association. It was agreed that medical salaries would increase by up to 20%. The deal was signed, and then the government started looking for where the money could be taken. It turned out, of course, to raise the visit fee and the bed-day fee. That's what the other hospitals did. The procedure is such that each hospital can introduce certain benefits. In fact, many hospitals do so if they can afford it. There are places where kids don't pay their visit fees, but unfortunately there are only children in the children's hospital. So, at the expense of an adult patient, there is no way to find any money for children. Tallinn Children's Hospital is located in the capital, but of course not only the children of Tallinn are welcome there, but also children from other parts of Estonia. Children from elsewhere in Estonia accounted for 42% of the total number of patients last year. We propose in the draft that the Government of the Republic develop some sort of compensation mechanism that would also provide an opportunity to raise the salaries of doctors at the children's hospital, as promised. I would point out, however, that a study by the Institute for Health Development has shown that, as early as last year, the salaries of doctors at the children's hospital were 20% lower than those of their colleagues working in other hospitals. It is still a desire to continue without taking the visit fee from the children. We discussed this at length in the Commission. There was, of course, also the argument that the visit fee should be imposed, which here messed up. But it is, I stress once again, the children's hospital. We, who are parents, know very well that no parent simply goes to the children's hospital and goes there when something's going on. Five euros is not a very small amount of money. Doctors estimate that there is a real risk that some children will be deprived of medical care simply because their parents do not have this money at the moment. That is the content of our draft. I feel like I didn't mention something very important, but I think I got it all covered. I am asking for this bill to be supported. It was very sad to hear in the Commission the argument made by the Ministry of Social Affairs that this was not the case in the business world. I think we could make an exception to the hospital where our children are being treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U9	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I would like to remind you that each member of the Riigikogu is able to ask each of the two rapporteurs an oral question. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U10	Thank you very much. You reminded me of tripartite wage negotiations. Remind me, please, of the position of the children's hospital in the negotiations on medical pay!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U11	Thank you! In fact, no single hospital had a position, the position of the Hospital Association, and the representatives signed this agreement. But we remember very well that is Mr Viktor Vassilyev's expression, which, unfortunately, must be accepted, that the hospital union was actually pushed into the tank. They signed this deal, but then it turned out they'd have to start raising prices on their own. As I said, the children's hospital cannot do this because it should be done at the expense of our children.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U12	Thank you. Please, Tõnu Juul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I didn't understand your report as to whether the management of children's hospitals saw any major problem here. You didn't touch that side at all. Have you spoken to them and consulted them? What is their position?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U14	Thank you for your question. Maybe I didn't make myself clear enough. There are two children's hospitals in Estonia. One of them, namely the Tallinn Children's Hospital, does not serve any adult persons. This means that it cannot be taken purely economically, figuratively speaking, for example, through an adult visit fee and accounting, part of this visit fee as if to share it with children. There is another hospital that bears the name of the children's hospital, but it is part of the University of Tartu Hospital, where there are several other hospitals, so the system works differently economically there. Only children are treated in Tallinn Children's Hospital, which means that if we set a visit fee, all children will pay it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U15	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U16	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! This problem is also linked to costs. It would therefore be good to specify what amount we are talking about. How much is provided for in the hospital's contract with the health insurance fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U17	Thank you! I saw Mr. Juul trying to raise his hand as if his question had not been answered. I'm trying to answer both of you. When we're talking about hospital executives, a couple of days ago, I looked into the situation. For example, in a letter sent to me by the chief doctor of Tallinn Children's Hospital Mall-Anne Riigijärv, the fact is that the contract offered by the Health Insurance Fund is 2.8% higher than last year, the budget for special medical care for the Health Insurance Fund increases 5.4%, while the children's hospital needs a 10% increase in the wage fund, given the strike agreements. Maybe the hospital gets a 2.8% increase from the Health Insurance Fund, but we need 10%. When we discussed these figures in the Commission, the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs read out a very nice list of the Health Insurance Fund, from which it turned out that the services provided to children are more expensive than adult services. It's true. But the result is still that the hospital gets 2.8%, not 10%, which is necessary to meet wage promises.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U18	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U19	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, As far as I know, many municipalities support residents in paying the visit fee. For example, the municipality, which I used to run, paid the visit fee entirely. Will Tallinn also support children in paying the visit fee?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U20	Thank you! I have mentioned this that Tallinn has been paying half the visit fee for years. The visit fee was 3 euros in the past 20 cents and Tallinn paid 1 euros and 60 cents. This is also done by Tallinn in 2013. But the point is that the Tallinn budget was adopted earlier when all these agreements were signed and these promises were shared. The consequence is that the budget has been adopted and the money cannot be enchanted. Tallinn was perfectly correct in its opinion, as it has been for the last few years, but the consequence is that the hospital is losing money because these promises were made after the city budget had already been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U21	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U22	Thank you! Dear waitress, Mr Juul was interested in what hospital leaders thought about this situation. He didn't get an answer. I'll ask you again what the children's hospital managers or other hospital managers think about this problem. Have you spoken to them and consulted them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U23	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thanks a lot, Yana Toom! I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U24	I have only spoken to the management of the children's hospital about this issue, because it concerns the children's hospital. I have studied at the Health Insurance Fund and I know that in hospitals where both adults and children are treated, children are usually given benefits or exempted from the visit fee. It is economically possible to do so because you can so-called earn money from adults. It doesn't sound polite, but it does.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U25	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Proposal to the Government of the Republic' at its meeting on 19 February. Since this is a draft decision of the Riigikogu, the procedure is slightly different. The Bureau of the Riigikogu set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the 344 draft decision. 15 January 2010 at 4 p.m. No amendments were received. The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft and presented it to Mrs Toom. I'm not going to go over the introduction because the previous speaker already did it on the remote. I'm just going to make a few details, because this is a little confusing. I am talking about the role of the state and the role of the owner of Tallinn Children's Hospital. As you understand, the purpose of the draft is to ensure financial compensation for the loss of income for the Foundation in the event of the non-application of visit and bed-day fees to the Tallinn Children's Hospital. The Riigikogu has introduced the Health Insurance Act. Paragraph 70 (5) provides that a visit fee may not be charged if outpatient specialist medical care is provided to insured persons under two years of age. Paragraph 71 (2) of the same Act provides that the bed-day allowance may not be charged for the period of intensive care, for the provision of inpatient specialist medical care related to pregnancy and childbirth, and for the provision of inpatient specialist medical care to a minor. Foundation Tallinn Children's Hospital, the owner of it Tallinn has decided that Tallinn Children's Hospital does not charge minors a visit or bedday fee. This decision has been taken in addition to these national restrictions. Tallinn has also decided to compensate for 50% of the loss of income due to the absence of the visit fee for Tallinn Children's Hospital. If we look at the country now, then, first of all, I am clear that we should not start to change the law and demand a visit fee and a bed-day fee from children up to two years of age again. I think most members of the Riigikogu share the same view. The previous speaker also mentioned that the services provided to children are indeed higher on the list of services provided by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. This means that the health insurance fund through which it is financed has already, in itself, differentiated its system, i.e. the prices of adult and child care, are different. Children's treatment prices are higher, which means that the Tallinn Children's Hospital also provides health care services at a higher price, which is compensated by the Health Insurance Fund. I think that the addressee of this draft decision should have been Tallinn, as Tallinn has the power to compensate for the money that the children's hospital has missed due to Tallinn's decision for visit and bedday fees. The Centre Party, which has a direct link with Tallinn's government, could contact Tallinn City Government to find the part of the money that is currently missing at Tallinn Children's Hospital. The country has imposed restrictions, as I said, on the visit fee for children up to two years of age, as well as on the provision of inpatient specialist medical care related to pregnancy and childbirth. These decisions, I hope, will not be reviewed by the Riigikogu and children up to two years of age will continue to be exempt from visitation and bed pay. It's not a good idea to start collecting money from them, good Centre Party! The Committee on Social Affairs took the following decisions: to send the draft decision to first reading today, 26 February, together with a proposal not to adopt a decision. There were 5 members of the Commission in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. Margus Tsahkna, chairman of the committee, was appointed rapporteur for the committee. This bill requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U26	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U27	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, For the sake of the stenogram, please specify. You accused Tallinn that they had not imposed a visit fee on children older than two years, thus depriving the hospital of any extra money. Am I right to understand that this is a problem for Tallinn, that they missed a visit fee from children over two years of age?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U28	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U29	Thank you, good questioner! You got it all wrong. My point was that Tallinn could and could be more compensated because it is Tallinn's own decision. I think it's basically the right decision not to charge a visit fee. However, if such a decision is made, then the development of the hospital should also be looked at and this part of the city's budget should be compensated.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U30	Thank you, Madam President. To be honest, I did not quite understand what the Commission was discussing. You're the one who brought up the questions about the reward. But from the main report, I realized that the purpose of the bill is to find the means to raise doctors' salaries. You barely said anything about the pediatricians not receiving the salary provided for in the agreement. All you talked about was these fees. Explain it again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U31	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U32	Thank you. The question got a little mixed up. The Tallinn Children's Hospital is also a member of the Hospital Association. The Association of Hospitals turned to the Government of the Republic at the end of last year, after tripartite negotiations, with the proposal that the state raise the threshold for the visit fee and the bed pay. Each medical institution shall establish a visit fee and a bed-day fee. We in this Chamber decided whether to raise the threshold that had not been raised for ten years. The Foundation Tallinn Children's Hospital has also signed this Hospital Association proposal. I hope that, as regards the increase in the salaries of doctors, nurses and carers, this hospital will also comply with the collective agreement that it has signed. The problem is that the money from the so-called visit fee increase in Tallinn Children's Hospital is smaller than other hospitals, according to the hospital, because they cannot charge the visit fee. The role of Tallinn is crucial here. I hope that, just as Tallinn has been able to change its budget in previous years, so it will adjust the budget this time in order to support its hospital.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm going to give you a recommendation that we've given to many members of the coalition. If you want to lead Tallinn, you must apply to Tallinn City Council and be elected. Then you can take the lead in Tallinn. This is where the country is managed. We make proposals to the government, not to the City of Tallinn. It's incredible demagoguery when you say that the Centre Party kind of wants to set a visit fee for children. On the contrary, we want the children's hospital in Tallinn to be compensated for the money it misses due to this unestablished visit fee. Tallinn has not allocated less funds to Tallinn Children's Hospital, on the contrary, it has tried to increase them year after year. The question, however, is as follows. Did the City Government of Tallinn participate in these negotiations? Did he finally sign a contract about the need to find pay for doctors and where that money could be found, or did he not participate in these negotiations and was not even invited?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U34	Thank you. I think that Tallinn participated in these negotiations by the fact that Tallinn is the owner of the Tallinn Children's Hospital Foundation, Tallinn's representatives belong to the Tallinn Children's Hospital Council, and Tallinn largely manages this particular medical institution. None of the municipalities participated in the individual tripartite negotiations because they were not specific parties. However, those municipalities that own some medical facilities were certainly involved and participated in the negotiations through their own representation in these specific medical facilities. As far as Tallinn's leadership is concerned, I do not think it is the right place to discuss what will happen after the next elections in October. But the committee also discussed that there was a wish that Tallinn Children's Hospital would be part of PERH. Since they are side by side, it would be easier for the children's hospital to cope financially. Tallinn, however, was the one who decided that no, the Tallinn Children's Hospital Foundation will continue to be a separate institution. This has led to the fact that due to the current restrictions, both those imposed by the state (although the health insurance fund has higher prices for children) and the additional restrictions imposed by Tallinn itself, the economic situation of Tallinn Children's Hospital is indeed more difficult than that of PERH, which is one of the largest medical institutions in Estonia, where it is possible to behave economically more flexibly. In the future, it might be in the interests of children and medical staff working in children's hospitals, for example, if the children's hospital were part of PERH. But that's up to the owners.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U35	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I want to thank you. It was an excellent political message that you sent us today in this Chamber. The children of Tallinn, each of whom can get sick at a certain point, can only rely on the help of the city government led by the Central Party; they will not receive any help from the government. This is really very politically interesting. But here's the question. In view of the demographic situation and apart from the political games, do you not think, even for a moment, that in such a situation, all set asides should be abandoned and practically viewed? Have you been to the hospital and talked to the management?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U37	Thank you, good questioner! Yes, the head of Tallinn Children's Hospital visited the Social Committee at the end of last year. I fully understand this concern. It was a fine demagogic move again, which the honourable questioner used, claiming that the state says he doesn't care. On the contrary, my message was clear: the state has been providing for this regulation for years, and it was also considered that the services provided to children through the Health Insurance Fund were at a higher cost, which means that the medical institutions that provide medical services to children will also be better remunerated. This is our common political decision at national level to exempt children up to two years of age from the day-to-day pay for visits and beds and inpatient health care related to pregnancy and childbirth. I don't think we're gonna change that. Rather, as the owner of a children's hospital, the city is obliged, on the one hand, to impose additional restrictions, which are certainly very positive for children and their parents, to ensure the economic sustainability of a medical institution that belongs to itself. Today, Tallinn has abandoned this part of its responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U38	Thank you. Please, Tõnu Juul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, It seems to me that this draft, which we are discussing, is actually more of a budgetary issue. I didn't get the answer from the last waitress, whether specifically the children's hospital management has sent you this request on paper or whether this request has come from the drafters. What is the opinion of the board of directors or the board of directors who are curating the hospital? It didn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U40	Thank you. The representative of Tallinn Children's Hospital was on the Social Committee at the end of last year when we also discussed this tripartite agreement. Indeed, it was a concern that, as they have their limitations, they were getting into a bit of an unequal situation compared to the other hospitals that signed this tripartite agreement. He acknowledged that some of the restrictions are due to the law (no visitation and bed pay for children up to two years of age), but the lion's deficit still arises because the city has imposed restrictions on other patients as well. He expressed concern that insufficient funding had not been allocated from the city budget. I don't want to point the finger at anyone, not even on Tallinn, but I don't understand why the Centre Party is proposing to the government in this Chamber if it were possible to solve this problem at the local government level, precisely at the level where the problem is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U41	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U42	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I understand that the Commission, the chairman of the committee, among others, did not support this proposal. But a handsome young man has sent a beautiful letter to my home, where he writes, among other things, on the blue background that the IRL stands for our people to last, children to be born, we must ensure family security, respect for big families, protect family values, raise children, etc. Since he's signed "IRL" here, I understand he's performed in your name as well. How am I supposed to understand that now? Does the IRL really support raising children and managing families in raising children or does it not support them? I now get the impression that, since this bill is not supported, it is like it does not support it all, but according to this beautiful blue paper, it should support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U43	Thank you, good questioner! Yes, IRL certainly supports the birth, rearing and development of children. He will certainly do this after next October's elections at the local government level in Tallinn if we see more funds available to support the Tallinn Children's Hospital Foundation than the current city government.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U44	Thank you, Madam President. I am sorry that I accidentally came up with a very political question, even though the plan was second in the beginning. We have needs-based child support, which is the pride of the IRL, which amounts to EUR 9 59 cents. The visit fee for children is five euros. How do you compare these two amounts?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U45	Thank you. I would point out that Mr Tsahkna is a Commission waitress. Questions could be more relevant to the Commission's work. But, of course, the respondent has the right to decide how and how much he will respond. Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U46	There is no need to compare these two amounts. One thing is the limit on visitation and bed pay. The second thing is the need-based amount of child benefit at the moment that this allowance comes into effect. This amount increases every year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U47	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I listened to your answers, and I was amazed that you called the exemption from the visit fee a limitation. Were you wrong or do you really think so?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U48	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U49	Thank you, good questioner! If you go into this draft decision, you will see that its main problem is the financial situation of a particular institution. From the perspective of the medical institution, this exemption is a restriction, but in the eyes of children and parents, it is a very necessary advantage, not a restriction. We understand you the same way in that sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U50	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs! The draft concerns Tallinn Children's Hospital. You said that the fact that the children's hospital does not charge their children a visit is a problem for Tallinn. At the same time, the hospital does not treat only the children of Tallinn, but the children of the whole region are being treated there. I think almost half of these children are not residents of Tallinn. Visiting and bedtime fees were one way of negotiating with the doctors that you had to keep your promises. So this children's hospital must be given another chance. Repeat again why the Social Affairs Committee is not willing to grant an exception to children's hospital where no visit fee is charged to children.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U51	Thank you. Please, Andre Sepp!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U52	Thank you, good questioner! First, the Estonian Hospitals Association proposed raising the threshold for the visit fee, including Tallinn Children's Hospital. Secondly, the state makes exceptions and these derogations already exist. If you are familiar with the Health Insurance Fund's price lists for this year, you will see that these exceptions have been introduced precisely because the state has provided that no visit fee will be charged to children up to two years of age, as well as to the provision of inpatient maternity care. In this sense, the State has, on the one hand, granted incentives to support families and children with children and, on the other hand, also provided funds to compensate for the loss of money. Since this is a municipal hospital, the municipality also has its functions here. Tallinn has, in my opinion, made the right decision not to charge a visit fee to minors who are not covered by the law, but they should provide for the means to ensure the economic sustainability of the children's hospital. Here's the point of the argument. I call on Tallinn not to argue politically, but to actually review its budgetary options.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I read in the explanatory memorandum to this draft decision that Tallinn has so far covered 50% of the visit fees for Tallinn Children's Hospital. Is the Commission aware of Tallinn's position on this matter? Tallinn has, of course, had many opportunities to support its people. Is the Commission aware of Tallinn's position on how to proceed with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U54	Thank you. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U55	Thank you, good questioner! We have not formally asked for the position of Tallinn City Government. However, if we look at Tallinn's political choices, we can see that there are places where money can be found, for example, instead of party propaganda, we could compensate Tallinn Children's Hospital for the loss of money due to visit fees. These political choices really do exist, but this was not discussed by the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U56	Thank you. Your message was very clear: although children from all over Estonia go to Tallinn Children's Hospital, the financing of this hospital and the related problems are purely Tallinn's concern. But who is responsible for healthcare in the country? Shouldn't the state compensate the children's hospital, for example, for the capital costs that the law provides for? It hasn't been done so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U57	Thank you, good questioner! My message was very clear: the state must carry out its tasks and the municipality must carry out its tasks. There is no point in coming to this Chamber of the Riigikogu to impose unfulfilled functions on the government of the state. Everyone's doing their job. As far as capital costs are concerned, this is another issue that we will be able to discuss repeatedly in this Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U58	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! Any requests? Please, as representative of the Toom Group of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U59	Thank you! I didn't make any speech, but frankly, that last line drove me to the back feet. If we name the best children's hospital in Estonia, where wonders are done for the health of our children, an outstanding task, then it is still the top. I beg you, let's take some time, breathe in and out, count to ten, and maybe still support this bill. This is not a problem for Tallinn, it is a problem for children. There are few children in Estonia. These figures are depressing. Our children's allowance is EUR 19 18 cents, but the visit fee is EUR 5, and you can visit a doctor three times for this allowance. However, needs-based support is not even available for two visits. Hey, this is incredible! Indeed, there are patriots working in this hospital, but the fact is that their salaries are currently 20% lower than those of their colleagues working in other hospitals. This complaint, as if Tallinn was so stubborn, and instead of combining it with PERH in its time, kept it for himself, it's kind of weird. This hospital treats children, there's nothing else they do. For example, I do not believe that if Tallinn Children's Hospital were currently part of PERH so that children could be treated free of charge. I'm not sure about that at all. Please let us look at these things separately: they are children and they are politics. It is not a policy at present, it is the health of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U60	Only the representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations. Do the representatives of the political groups still have any requests to speak? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. No amendments to the draft were received. So we can go to the final vote. The commission's proposal was that draft 344 should not be adopted as a decision. Since the draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted, we will carry out a verification of the presence. Priit Toobal, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U61	Thank you, Mr President. I could not find information in the material on whether the Tallinn Support Group formed by Parliament would support this draft or not. Do you have that knowledge?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U62	It's not a procedural question. We're going to the voting procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently, 58 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 43 are missing. We can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote a draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic' delivered by the Estonian Centre Party Group 344. Please take a stand and vote. 31 members of the Riigikogu with 13 votes against and 1 abstention. There were therefore fewer than 51 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this decision. The draft decision was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U63	Let's go to the next item. The "Triminal policy trends up to 2018" will be discussed. The report on the implementation of 2012 will be reported by Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U64	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Let me give you an overview of how criminal policy is to be implemented in 2012. To begin with, according to the subjective assessment, we may have heard more about issues such as the protection of fundamental rights of individuals, the presumption of innocence, moral assessments, etc. last year. Undoubtedly, these are issues in which we need a broad-based social debate to be clarified, and not only the debate, but also concrete legislative steps. Certainly, the Riigikogu is one of the central areas of this debate and I hope that possible future solutions will be balanced, rational and in accordance with the rule of law. I also recall last year's public hearing on the acquittal decisions taken in court in the context of criminal proceedings. As many of you know, acquittal decisions constitute less than 5% of criminal cases. This means that any such solution deserves attention, especially when it comes to a case that is very much reflected in the media. If, in the past, the legal system has been accused of being acquitted too rarely, then last year the weight went to the other side and, for example, you would like to bring the accusers to justice because of 'failure'. I assure you, we don't have a plan like this. Correct decisions are an integral part of the legal system. In these cases, we must also take particular care in the way in which we treat procedural parties in the event of acquittal. We must be more generous and understanding as a society. Those who have been acquitted by the court cannot have been convicted by anyone else. Here I recall the American religious scientist and thinker Reinhold Niebuhr, whom I quoted in the House of Judges. He said: "The ability of man to understand the right makes democracy possible, but man's tendency to injustice makes democracy necessary. " To comment on this point, I also said that I am concerned about the willingness of people and society to judge the sentenced right rather than to condemn it in its own right. I recalled these points because they are also appropriate for this presentation. Before proceeding with the report, I would like to remind you of the main principles of developments in criminal policy, i.e. the instructions given by the Riigikogu to the government to implement criminal policy. I'll stop at two of them. The first concerns the need to build criminal policy on high-quality research and academic knowledge. Although criminal policy often creates a lot of emotions, a glowing heart or practice is not the way to achieve real progress. Criminal policy also requires professionalism, such as medicine or energy. Figuratively speaking, criminal policy can also be built on the principle of public medicine or professional medicine. There are further similarities: for example, we realise that it is more effective to fight both disease and crime by preventing them and not by solving problems that have already arisen. This is why every year we have increasingly involved academic experts in the design of criminal policy. The revision of the Penal Code and the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which started this year, will focus on the fundamental rights of individuals, can be highlighted as major activities. In the field of research, we have developed the Ministry's own analytical capacity and also commissioned studies from universities. All in all, this means that criminal policy will become as evidence-based as much as possible: we must choose and finance policies that prove themselves and refrain from burying money where it has no or even negative impact. The second principle of criminal policy is the involvement of the civil society. We can talk about involvement in both policy-making and implementation. A good example of policy-making is the handling of hate incitement crimes and the draft of trafficking in human beings, but a programme of voluntary supporters who started working last year for those released from prison, which we organise in cooperation with the Council of Churches. For example, cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu is definitely suitable. At the beginning of last year, the first analysis commissioned by the Legal Affairs Committee from ministry analysts was completed. At the same time, the Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee has actively participated in the revision of the Penal Code. I hope this will help the Riigikogu to deal with the drafts more effectively. Thus, in a brief summary, it can be said that the formulation of criminal policy is in line with the principles of the development plan. I will continue with the objectives of criminal policy. You will probably not be surprised that the main objective will continue to be to reduce crime. This means that victimisation, crime-related damage, victim suffering, etc. must be reduced. However, this objective is not always so obvious. From time to time, there are competing goals, which are important, but where we should think about whether they are most useful in terms of reducing crime. I dare say that often the discussions that have started in individual cases will be resolved, which is emotionally appropriate, but at the same time can take us far beyond the ultimate goal. Let me give you a few examples. The case of violence against the police in Viljandi gave rise to a public debate. One solution was to tighten up the penalties and the other to ban the settlement procedure. However, criminological knowledge and research do not support either solution in order to prevent and reduce the number of such cases, since the causes of this case are elsewhere. Another example is the case of violence against teachers in Tõstamaa. Discussions on whether or not a teacher is in principle entitled to receive a child have been reached in the context of the subject. While, of course, every person has the right to defend himself against physical and mental violence, fighting violence would mean a battle that has already been lost in advance. I said that the main objective of criminal policy is to reduce crime. I will take a brief look at how this goal has been achieved. According to the survey, 8% of people in Estonia were victims of crime in 2012. It is a reminder that in 2010 there were 12% of such people. Let it be pointed out here that, for example, in Viru County as a whole, 13% of people were reported to be victims of crime and that this figure is even higher in Ida-Viru County. However, in 2012 the investigation authorities and the prosecutor's office registered 40816 crimes, which are 4% less than in 2011 and 29% less than in 2003, which was the first year after the Penal Code came into force. Crime registration decreased quite evenly across Estonia: the number of crimes fell by ten compared to last year, remained at the same level in two and increased in three counties. All of you who are in this hall or outside this hall can access the statistics of your city or municipality in the Justice Department's online home. In particular, the number of crimes against property in 2012 decreased by 7%. The decrease in the number of thefts is confirmed both by statistics on registered crimes and by survey data. The number of registered thefts decreased by 8%, and the police started criminal proceedings to investigate nearly 19,000 cases of theft. Thefts represent almost half of the registered crimes, but at the same time it is known that a large number of the victims of the theft unfortunately fail to report these cases to the police. In 2012, according to the survey, there were up to 58% of such victims. When comparing the level of reporting of crimes in Estonia and Western European countries, we must admit that in Estonia crime is reported significantly less frequently and, although we have a high level of trust in the police, it is unfortunately not enough for a person to go to the police. My sincere recommendation to all the victims of the theft and, of course, to all the victims of other crimes is simple: let the police know, because if you do not, there is no way that the crime committed will be punished. Failure to notify is also a problem for violent crimes. Unfortunately, 63% of cases of threats of violence and physical attacks were not reported to the police. At the same time, the reporting of violent crimes has increased considerably compared to 2009. The attention of the public and the changed attitude of the procedural authorities have certainly played a role here. In the case of violence crimes, a reduction in the number of killings is worth mentioning on the positive side of last year. Last year, the number of victims of violence was the smallest after regaining independence. According to preliminary data, 57 people died, and 20 years ago this figure was eight times higher. However, despite the positive downward trend, we cannot be satisfied with this until the end, because to reach the European average, there should be nearly three times less crimes of this kind. However, the number of registrations of physical abuse as the most widespread crime of violence increased last year to over one-tenth of 5311 crimes, and the change was mainly due to crimes committed in Tallinn and Harjumaa. It must be made clear here that the change is largely due to a change in the practice of the police and the prosecutor's office, i.e. the so-called zero tolerance for violent crimes, particularly cases of domestic violence. If the victim has already turned to the police, the crime will be dealt with. As a result, the number of registered crimes may increase, but it has to be seen as a positive indicator. Speaking more generally about mass crimes, I would stress that most of these crimes are not the morally immoral people who consider their actions rationally in the key to profit-loss, but rather the people who do not excel in thinking. These are primarily violent, alcohol abusers in the case of drunk driving, drug addicts in the case of crimes against property. In other words, they are people with complex social problems. However, these people must also be dealt with in the criminal justice system, as we must also find ways of protecting the victims of the crime. In 2012, the first prisoner was released from prison for drug treatment, and in 2013 we hope to extend drug treatment as substitution treatment to people both released from prison and not yet in prison. The future issue remains the development of alcoholism treatment and the introduction of a system of penalties. You can always ask why we offer criminals services that cannot be afforded by a law - abiding person. There is, however, a very clear justification: firstly, it is effective and reduces the commission of new crimes; secondly, it is cheaper than imprisonment. We cannot have a justification for not using effective methods to reduce crime or using something as ineffective and expensive as imprisonment instead. From this point on, it is appropriate to move forward with one of the two main themes of criminal policy developments. This is the prevention of repeated crime. At the end of 2012, there were 3371 arrests and convicts in Estonia. This figure has not changed much in the last six years, although the number of crimes as a whole has decreased by nearly 20% at the same time. One of the main reasons is the increase in the number of drug criminals in prison. The proportion of people in prison for drug crime has increased from 13% to 21%. It is clear that the punitive policy strategy to combat drug crime may lead to an increasing number of young people in prison, but unfortunately it has not had a major impact on reducing the harm caused by drugs. I am pleased that the Minister for the Interior has started to look for effective prevention options. The Ministry of Justice will certainly not stand by and contribute to the achievement of these objectives. Speaking of the number of prisoners once again, this number is still one of Europe's largest in Estonia. I cannot say that we are pursuing the objective of developments in criminal policy, according to which only the most dangerous criminals will be punished by imprisonment. There are many reasons for the large number of prisoners, such as the drug problems that have already been mentioned. At the same time, our laws also give rise to a number of peculiarities which, on the one hand, require long conditional sentences to be fully enforced, and, on the other hand, we use much less of the release before the deadline, for example, in comparison with the Nordic countries, which would make the process of revival released from prison smoother and more effective. It is known that the reversibility of those released from prison is greater than that of people otherwise punished, and those released are, in turn, the most relapsed ones who are released from prison at the end of the sentence. On the one hand, the recidivism indicator is certainly responsible for the social problems of prisoners, on the other hand, it is known that the risk of committing new crimes is greatly influenced by the content of imprisonment and the way in which it is carried out. It cannot be expected that in an artificial environment, a person will learn to live free. We should give more consideration to changing the content of imprisonment and the introduction of the so-called 'normality principle'. Prison life must as much as possible resemble a normal life where a person is responsible for organizing his or her life. In this case, imprisonment is primarily a restriction on freedom of movement, but fewer restrictions on work, for example. However, we must acknowledge that we have achieved a great deal in prison policy compared to the other countries of the former Eastern bloc. Criminal subculture has decreased, and there is less violence and killing. Security in prison must be elementary. We have been able to place most prisoners in two chambers, but the real goal is that each prisoner has his own personal space. This would solve many problems that affect both the re-socialisation and the everyday life of the prison. However, improving the proportion of prisoners and staff is a key prerequisite for a more effective prison policy. This balance depends on whether the prison looks like criminals or prison workers. Another important course of developments in criminal policy is the prevention of juvenile delinquency, alongside the reduction of reversibility. There is a lot of interesting and encouraging things going on in this area, you could say that. Firstly, we will continue the policy of making children's exposure to the legal system minimal. To this end, we monitor the duration of the proceedings in both pre-trial and court proceedings. Secondly, the preparation of the new Child Protection Act and the Minor Sanctions Act will continue. Through them, we also pursue the objective of ensuring that children are treated differently in criminal and misdemeanour proceedings and in criminal law. At the primary prevention level, our task is to ensure that no child is left without child protection and without the necessary services, wherever he or she lives. That is why a new child protection law is needed at the level of regulation. At the same time, children who have committed an offence must be dealt with as individually and with a high quality as possible. It should be borne in mind that the deviant behaviour of children is, on the one hand, due to external causes and, on the other hand, can easily be influenced by the right interference. It is by assessing the needs of children and improving the choice and quality of intervention options that we are making the most progress. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In the progress report, I have also mentioned statistics on special schools and on the detention of minors. If we are to achieve better results in preventing juvenile delinquency, we must critically assess how we have done this work so far. We need to discuss whether the child who committed the crime must be separated from society and whether we are still following the principle of last resort.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U65	Dear Minister, It shall be possible to extend the report in agreement with the President. You'll have a minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U66	We have to ask ourselves whether this criminal practice, when dozens of minors arrive in prison every year, helps to reduce crime and strengthen security. International experience and the high reversibility of young criminals show that they are not helping. That is why it is time to review these policies and, if necessary, to make changes. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As my predecessors have done, I hope that we will be able to conduct criminal policy in a consensual and cross-party manner, because the aim is to have a safer Estonia in common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U67	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. As a reminder, every member of the Riigikogu is able to ask a question to the rapporteur. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, There are two important things I want to highlight in this report. Firstly, an increase of 11% in the number of physical abuse shows that politicians and authorities need to work together here. Some progress has been made in this regard. The second aspect I want to draw attention to is, of course, that the Ministry of Justice took courage and carried out a study that revealed that 58% of the thefts are not registered. So the field of work is big and wide. But it is a matter of special schools. This is certainly very important for the future of criminal policy. It has been said here that special schools should be found suitable content. Why don't you open up a little bit of what you mean by content?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U69	Thank you. We know that the Ministry of Education and Research is responsible for the education system as a whole. In the Council on Crime Prevention, the topic of special schools and the law on minor leverage have been discussed on several occasions. The direct desire and duty of the Ministry of Justice is to find the best possible regulation of special schools in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research. If we look at what a special school should do because of its nature, the primary task, regardless of whether it is a special school or a regular school, is to provide education for a young person. However, it must be taken into account that a specific regime must be used in special schools so that, in addition to providing regular education, young people's behavioural problems can also be dealt with a little more effectively. I believe our good cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research will continue. As I mentioned, both when the Child Protection Act is being made and when the Juvenile Influence Act is being reviewed, these problems will reach the grand hall of the Riigikogu more widely and longer than we have today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U70	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U71	Thank you, Minister. Thank you for this presentation. I have a question about Ida-Viru County, which is close to my heart and to yours. You said that according to the survey, an average of 8% of the population in Estonia fell victim to a crime in 2012. From the report, I realized that in Ida-Viru County this figure was about twice as high, you didn't point out the exact percentage. To what extent is this significantly higher percentage due to our effectiveness in law enforcement, including police footage problems in Ida-Virumaa, and to what extent are the significantly lower social indicators in the region? What are the measures that the government intends to take to ensure that the security of the people of Ida-Virumaa is at least at the average level of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U72	Thank you. I suggest you first take the 'Statistics' link from the website of the Ministry of Justice and look specifically at the data in Ida-Virumaa. From there you can see these exact figures and can even look at the number of crimes in one municipality or city of Ida-Virumaa. We have taken a step forward in the collection of statistics from year to year and have become more precise with this. All of this can be viewed in very small areas. If I came to the larger figures in Ida-Viru County, I would be happy to leave the question of the presence of the police to the Minister of the Interior. He'll be here soon with a security policy report. He may be able to comment more precisely on the number of police officers in Ida-Virumaa compared to other counties. But recently, I went there and checked the new Narva police station rooms that were already ready. I believe that the presence of the police in this region is not much smaller than in other counties. Yes, the social problems you mentioned, especially alcoholism and drugs, are those that increase the number of crimes not only in Ida-Virumaa, but also in Harjumaa. In this sense, the fight against crime is certainly a cross-cutting issue. Addressing social problems contributes to a reduction in crime, not only to tackling alcohol and drug-related problems, but also to the availability of jobs, for example, are essential.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U73	Thank you very much. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U74	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Let's look at the table that sets out the types of crime that made the biggest change in 2012. We see that 25% more than last year was slandering and insulting a type of crime such as a public authority and another person defending public order. You mentioned the Viljandi case and said the reasons were elsewhere. I want to know what the reasons are for no longer being feared by a person wearing a police uniform.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U75	Thank you. My indication that the cause is somewhere else was, above all, related to the fact that the law does not really have a problem here. It is clearly punishable to insult a representative of authority or to raise a hand against a representative of authority. If you look at the statistics, you can really see that these cases have also been registered more. I don't see a legislative problem here. Rather, it is about the methods of police work and the possibilities for the police to use a service weapon or other self - protection if necessary. But every situation is unique. The way a policeman chose a method of protection is to be assessed on a case-by-case basis. One particular rule cannot be given, in which case a service weapon or other special equipment may be used to counter the attack. I believe that in the police, this case has been very seriously discussed and the conclusions drawn in order to avoid such cases in the future. If necessary, the police must exercise their right to use special means to counter the attack by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U76	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U77	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You said that the number of thefts has fallen significantly compared to the previous one, and you mentioned that 58% of people are not reporting a crime. What would the number of thefts be if all people reported the theft? What do you think are the reasons why people have given up reporting the theft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U78	Thank you. Several studies have asked what are the reasons for non-notification. According to the victim study, 58% of the people reported the theft had to be given a reservation. Failure to notify may be due to the fact that a person's assessment of a crime may differ from the assessment of the law and the regulation recorded in the law. One thing is subjective assessment, which is explained in the polls, and the other is really registered crimes. That's the difference. If you look at the reasons, one of the main reasons is that the material damage caused by the theft was small. Secondly, trust in the police is high, but people do not always think that the police can solve the crime. Well, that's the reason, isn't it? My appeal to the people is that whatever opinions they have, the crimes should be reported. Looking at the overall crime rate, it's been stable around 50%. In 2012, the official crime rate was 53,2. Of course, this is different for different types of crime, with a higher resolution rate for serious crimes, with more cases of minor theft, which are definitely blind. But if the crime is not reported, then the probability of solving it is zero.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U79	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you for your clear and constructive presentation. I understand that developments in our criminal policy are reasonably compatible with modern European developments in this area. You said, Minister, that confronting violence with violence is already a lost battle. I would understand if this were to be said, for example, by our future true believer police chief. However, I ask the Minister how to comment on the fact that, in the general part of the Penal Code, there is still the concept of 'emergency', as well as the provisions on emergency protection, which say that a person can, in justified cases, face violence with a weapon, physical violence, maybe even more seriously if he is harmed. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U81	The comments exactly as you referred to them. Of course, these provisions exist in criminal law and they must remain there in my opinion. Emergency protection and related provisions cannot and must not disappear anywhere, that is clear. When we talk about an attack against a natural person, a person has the right and the opportunity to defend himself. Rather, my example of raising school involved prevention. These young people have, in their early education and perhaps in their normal life, received the kind of education that led to their attack on the teacher. The fact that the teacher has been forced to defend himself, the behaviour of minors really got ugly, is, of course, justified in a punitive way. But when we talk about the objectives of penal policy and criminal policy, these reasons are actually elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U82	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U83	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. At the beginning of your report, you said that no one should be held guilty until the judgment has entered into force. We all agree, of course, that no one can make such a decision without a trial. At the same time, in our judicial system, there is such a practice that when a prosecutor's office passes the case on, he reports the accusations to the public and does so as if everything had already been proved and a judgment existed. There's a complication here. Man hasn't even been to the first trial yet, but the public thinks he's a criminal. What do you think of this situation? Shouldn't there be some way to limit the possibility of blackmailing a man when a judgment hasn't even come up yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U84	Thank you. My position is still what is stated in the Constitution. The presumption of innocence applies in the Republic of Estonia. Of course, there are many possible approaches to discussing each case. Regardless of whether this matter is dealt with in the media or in a smaller circle, it must be taken into account that the person can only be convicted in the Republic of Estonia by a court. Consequently, all approaches to this issue must be objective. Once the prosecution has been filed and brought to court, of course the prosecutor, or prosecutor, is convinced that this person is guilty. I guess he's the one who's supposed to defend his position. The prosecutor can't go to court knowing he's going there to lose. In that case, the prosecutor would do his job badly. The prosecutor has to go to court with a charge that he can justify and justify. If the D.A. doesn't have any evidence, he doesn't have to go to court.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U85	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you for a very smooth and pleasantly illustrated presentation in general. Since you and Mr Linde already had a discussion on what I wanted to discuss, I would rather ask a substitute question. I am sorry that this question is a third-rate one. Do you agree that the representatives of the ministries and members of the Riigikogu must not make the mistakes that we are driving schoolchildren for when drafting their reports? One of your first tabloids about crimes against property was cursing percentage marks. The point of the table is known to be that all repeated information will be transferred either to the heading of the table cell or to the title of the table itself. From here, as I said, the substitute question. Are you willing to make a small remark to your secretary about the rules of formalisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U87	Thank you. I take note of this remark. Next time, we'll try to bring you tables that are in the right form.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U88	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U89	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. If we look at this developmental document, we will see that it explicitly states that the prevention of offences must take place primarily at local level. It talks directly about the functions of local governments in prevention and cooperation between local government, community and entrepreneurship. In your report, you did not mention this area. Can you tell me how the cooperation between the government and local government in preventing offences is progressing?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U90	Thank you. Of course, the prevention of offences must take place at as low a level as possible, figuratively speaking at grassroots level. It's not just a local government thing, it's just like every parent's thing. If a parent does not care for his or her child and does not know what is right and wrong, then we are inevitably in a situation where people get involved in crime. Crime prevention must be addressed at all levels. I don't want to start listing what local authorities have to deal with. This area is very broad, starting with the need to ensure that the place of kindergarten and the possibility of education, i.e. the obligation to attend school are met. Activities to prevent crime are very diverse. Every normal activity, at municipal level, at family level and elsewhere, contributes, among other things, to the fact that a person has been raised in such a way that he or she does not commit crimes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U91	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U92	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! In your good presentation, you spoke about the various policies you are trying to implement. It is a good thing that our penal policy and criminal policy are following developments that have been used in other countries like us or have proved successful there, because the crime situation depends not only on criminal policy, but also on the development and maturity of society as a whole. It was an overall assessment. But here's my question. Our legal proceedings are very widespread in agreement procedures, with a very high percentage. As a result, the cases remain uncontested in the courts and the caselaw is actually shaped by the prosecutor's office, which proposes a settlement procedure. How do you rate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U93	Thank you. Looking at the criminal process, it can be seen that it is certainly not the prosecutor's office that plays an important role here, but the defenders. If the defense agrees to make an agreement, we will not have a competitive process. It's as simple as that. Let us begin by saying that if the accused accepts the settlement procedure and acknowledges his guilt, I think it is reasonable to resolve this matter outside the courtroom when the law has created an opportunity to do so, in the sense of using the resources of the State and the court. If a person claims that he or she has not committed this act, and his or her lawyer is convinced of it and can also prove that this is not a charge that holds water, then in any case a competitive process is preferable. I would certainly like to see both the appointed and the contractual guardians choose a more competitive process, but this cannot be done if both, the accused and the defender, are not convinced that the prosecution brought by the prosecutor is incorrect. The prosecutors are doing their job. It's hard to reproach them here. If they've brought charges, that's clear enough, and the accused agrees with that, I don't see a problem here with the court's resources in mind. However, yes, I would also like to see the appointed defenders more willing to participate in the competitive process.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U94	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question comes from the area of protecting people's fundamental rights. Comparing the statistics on crime and surveillance in different years, a general conclusion can be drawn that crime has been significantly reduced, with a slight downward trend in the number of cases where surveillance permits have been issued. However, the number of permits granted for surveillance activities does not indicate a reduction. For example, the number of surveillance permits increased by as much as 9% last year compared to the previous year, including the number of phone eavesdropping permits by 18% and the number of discreet surveillance permits by 15%. How does this seem to be a contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U96	Thank you. In our ministry, it will also be broken in the head and looked at in greater depth. There are several reasons why we cannot give the answers we want today. The tracking information system, which will certainly give us a better statistical and also substantive overview, is still being completed. After it has been completed, we will certainly be able to do much better on both the side of civil control and day-to-day supervision. If you look at the figures you mentioned, it is true that the number of procedures for which surveillance was carried out is almost the same as in 2011, but the number of permits and operations has increased overall. It can be assumed that, after all, the procedures have been somewhat complicated, more different procedural procedures have had to be carried out. It is necessary to examine more precisely whether the court has granted the licence for a shorter period and whether it has been necessary to extend the procedure, which automatically means a new authorisation in the form of a new authorisation. As the number of procedures is the same, but the number of permits has increased, it may be that surveillance has been carried out several times in the same procedure. Serious analysis still needs what's going on in the pursuits. We know that there are two types of tracking licenses: one given by the prosecutor's office, and the other given by the court. I have been thinking that it might be worth considering whether the issue of surveillance permits as a whole should not be subject to judicial review if judicial resources allow it. I'm sure it's worth considering. If the grand hall of the Riigikogu considers it right that the permissions for surveillance activities are granted only by the court in the Republic of Estonia and not by the prosecutor's office, this requires additional resources in court. In my opinion, also thanks to the latest legislative changes to clarify surveillance activities this January, there is a willingness and opportunity to discuss this issue and to make some decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U97	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U98	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, This issue has already been reflected here, but I find it very worrying. I mean just not reporting crimes. This is not only the case with the thefts that have already been asked about. Last week, there was news in the press that companies didn't report economic crimes. Many other crimes are not reported either. Doesn't this have to do with hopelessness? The police aren't supposed to solve these crimes anyway. Many of us and, unfortunately, I have many acquaintances who have come across it. They have reported a crime, but no solution has come. A lot of people say, "What am I gonna tell you, nothing's coming from there anyway? " Those who have not received help have received the answer that the police have more important matters to solve than theft, have no time to deal with it, etc. Is it still not to blame that much of the police, as we know, have spread out, that the country has become too thin on the police side, and that people simply fail to report crimes because of hopelessness?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U99	Thank you. There is absolutely no notification in all countries. There is no need to create illusions that Estonia is something special and not knowing is something unique to us. The truth is that there are different reasons for not knowing. We handled them here for a moment. But I don't think the reason is because the police work has gotten any worse. Statistics do not support this either. If we look at the percentage of crimes solved, we can see that it's been well over 50% for the last two years, and it was under 50% for many years. I believe, however, that more and more crimes can be solved as new procedural possibilities and expertise are added, and technical tools are also helpful here. I believe that the message from the grand hall of the Riigikogu must be that crimes must be reported. When crime is reported, there is a primary presumption that these crimes will be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U100	Thank you. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U101	Thank you. Good minister! My question concerns economic crimes, more specifically competition crimes. Given Estonia's small size and the fact that we sometimes perhaps have too many situations where a steady increase in prices is not justified in any way by objective circumstances, and therefore the question may arise as to whether agreements between economic operators are not prohibited, and knowing that Estonia is one of the countries where criminal penalties are provided for in the cartel agreement, I have such a question. How do you assess the preventive effects of criminal sanctions on competition offences and how do you assess the effectiveness of dealing with cartels?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U102	Thank you. It is still good to start with dull numbers and then to reach estimates. 1137 economic crimes were registered in 2010, 1044 in 2011 and 800 in 2012. Economic crimes certainly have a direct link to the economic environment. When the economic environment is poor, economic crime becomes more specific and complex. If the economic situation is very good, economic crime will also become "simplified." There is a clear link to the overall economic situation. When assessing the preventive effect of the penalties in force, of course, one of the natural preconditions of the penalty is the impact on prevention. If it is known that some act that is qualified as a criminal offence will be followed by some kind of severity punishment, then it should prevent that crime from being committed. In the case of economic crimes, the post-crime penalty will certainly have an impact, but perhaps less than, for example, crimes against individuals. It has often been seen in the resolution of economic crimes that individuals do not know that one or the other act is punishable in terms of criminal law. When it comes to negotiations or the cartel agreements you have mentioned, it is very difficult to prove a crime here. After all, there are also some legal proceedings in which the issue of cartel agreements is already settled at the level of the Supreme Court. It is certainly very interesting to see which solutions will enter into force here. Then we'll get a little bit smarter whether we have to change the penalty practice or not. In addition, the review group under the direction of Professor Sootak will review the economic crimes and their penalties dealt with in penal law during March. I believe that there will be an additional knowledge of whether we have been on the right track so far or whether we should carry out an audit of the penalties.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U103	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U104	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you for this review. A few days ago, I was caught up in a statement in the media. I didn't really believe my eyes, but I just checked it out. There is a crime barometer on the website of the Ministry of Justice, according to which the number of crimes against individuals is actually constantly decreasing. But I was looking at the rape line. In 2010 there were 72 rapes between January and November, 79 in 2011 and 132 in 2012. Is it some kind of signal that the number of rapes has almost doubled? After all, the concept itself is the same as it was three years ago. If it's a signal, what does it mean? What can we do about it, and where does this increase come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U105	Thank you. The truth is that the number of rapes has increased. I'm sure that's a concern. This is certainly not just a'signal' issue, but rather a case of crimes against individuals and, more specifically, rapes, we need to look very seriously at what these reasons might be. This analysis is currently underway, looking more closely at last year's figures. We need to see if this figure has started to increase in some areas, whether there has been a change in police tactics or so. One reason for this is that people also report rape cases more frequently. This means growth in numbers, but in material terms, I am very pleased that the police will find out about such cases and will be resolved. It is rather positive that law enforcement authorities will be aware of rapes, as well as cases of domestic violence, and will be able to deal with these cases. Unfortunately, we have to admit that there are a number of rape cases that are not reported to the police at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U106	Thank you. Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In your report, you paid attention to the large number of prisoners, which your predecessors have done in the past. The number of convicted persons has not decreased significantly since 2007. You mentioned the number of drug crimes as one of the reasons in the report. How do you feel about whether the structure of our crimes is slightly different from that of other European countries, especially the Nordic countries? We have a tendency towards so-called serious crimes. Is the prison ratio going to be high, or do you see reserves here? One interesting fact you made is that in the case of execution of parole, people go to jail for quite a long time. Do you see any reserves here to change the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U108	Thank you. Speaking of the number of prisoners, you have to break up with the arrested and convicted. If you look at the number of convicts, there's been a fall in the last four years. In 2009, while 2,719 convicts were in detention facilities, last year this figure fell to 2541. Nearly 178 convicted prisoners have been reduced. On the other hand, the number of arrested has increased. That means we're in the middle of a case. It also sends a signal that in the last three or four years, the drug crime I have just referred to has been one of the reasons why we have quite a lot of arrests. Over the past year, police have apprehended a fully-fledged number of people involved in a drug crime. As a result, things have not yet come to an end and the number of arrests was therefore somewhat higher last year. We'll have to look into the subject a little bit. We cannot only base ourselves on the number of prisoners. But the positive thing is definitely that the number of convicted has decreased. On the other hand, the high number of arrested people means that attention must be paid to the speed of the procedure. In other words, we need to find out whether a person is guilty or not and what his punishment is. I see the possibility that the number of arrests will decrease, and so the number of convicts who are in prison should decrease. Conviction doesn't always have to be committed by imprisonment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U109	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your presentation, you showed me a map of the crime-population ratio last year. It was noted that the islands, West Estonia and Mulgimaa are safer areas. Can the criminal policy agenda or activities in this area highlight any principle that this image would become more uniform across Estonia, so that residents would feel as safe everywhere as in the western regions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U111	Thank you. Of course, speaking of percentages only, it should be said that in Hiiumaa, things have gone crazy. There last year, crime grew by 14% compared to the year before last. On the other hand, the bill needs to be monitored. In 2011, when 91 crimes were committed in Hiiumaa, 104 or 13 more crimes were committed in 2012. In percentage terms, this means an increase of 14%, but this does not mean that Hiiumaa has become significantly criminogenic. When using statistics, you always have to look a little more closely into the subject, not just to monitor the percentage variation. Looking further at the different regions, as I said in reply to the previous question, the social and economic environment plays an important role in crime. The more financial resources concentrated in one region or another, the more likely there is that there will be more crime in that region. On the other hand, the worse the social environment, the more likely it is that there will be more crimes in the region. There are reasons why Ida-Virumaa and Harjumaa are at the top in terms of crime indicators, but the islands and Viljandi County are on the positive side.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U112	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U113	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You mentioned earlier that we are looking at what is happening in other countries, taking over good experiences, looking at what has worked and what has not worked. But I've been following a process in South Africa recently where a well-known athlete is in question. When I compare this process to what is happening in Estonia, I see certain similarities there. It seems that there too, investigative bodies are leaking things very quickly to the press, and the press is condemning the person. At the same time, I also see differences. I wonder how fast this process is going down there. Have you noticed that things are happening there much faster than in Estonia? Does this give rise to any ideas that pre-trial and trial could be completed a little faster in Estonia than is the case today?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U114	Thank you. Of course, every person accused of a crime expects and expects clarity to arrive as soon as possible. There are certainly different situations in Estonia as well. We have 24-hour procedures, yes. We usually use 24-hour procedures in very clear matters, especially for drunk drivers and for some other types of crime. But serious crimes against individuals need and require very thorough proof under our procedural rules. We have chosen the path of gathering evidence first and then going to trial. Do you choose a different path if the evidence is perfectly clear? We also see the dangers of this process, which you have mentioned, as well. Speculation is constantly circulating and, therefore, information about the procedure is very different. At first, there was information that the gun was shot several times unknown. Later, information came that maybe the cause of death wasn't shot, that it might have been a bat or something else. That is the choice of procedural tactics, whether we choose the path of putting a person on trial first and then, in the context of legal proceedings, carrying out a preliminary investigation and a process of proof in our sense, or whether we collect evidence first and then go to court. These are the options. However, if there is clear evidence in the proceedings, of course the court should take place immediately after the act has been committed. However, it must also be taken into account that a person must have the right to choose a lawyer. If, for financial reasons, it is not possible for it to choose a lawyer, then we have chosen the path of the state's designated protection, etc. In summary, reducing the time limits for pre-investigation is an important issue for us to deal with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U115	Thank you. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U116	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. In the course of the questions and answers, the idea was that perhaps the examination of requests for permissions for surveillance activities could take place in a court that would ensure better quality. At the same time, last year's statistics show that only three applications for permission to pursue surveillance were rejected in court, i.e. 0.3% of all applications. How do you think quality should improve here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U117	Thank you. The extent to which the court has given its permissions can be viewed on two sides. On the one hand, it can be said that, as a result, the requests made by the prosecutor's office have been well founded and only the necessary authorisations are requested. I tend to think that the court will carefully examine these requests. When speaking to the judges, I have received assurances that every application will be examined very thoroughly and that, if there are reasons not to grant permission, it will not be granted. On the other hand, when it comes to negative answers, when there is a desire to simply manipulate statistics, there is certainly no question to go to the prosecutor's office and ask the court for permission with insufficient justification and for a negative answer. But I don't think that's the goal. If an authorisation is requested for a tracking operation, this action is indeed the last resort and the authorisation is still requested only on a reasonable basis. But you mentioned the possibility that the permits would only be reviewed by the court. If you look at how many surveillance licenses have been issued by the prosecutor's office, it turns out that we are talking about 1200-1300 permits that should be added to the permits that have been processed in court. I think a lot of permits like this could be handled by the court. Rather, it should be discussed whether the court is ready for this and what additional resources should be allocated to the judicial system.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U118	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U119	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I think that the citizens' justified fear of the emergence of a police state and the fact that we have one big ear that listens to us all the time has often been caused by the fact that the procedures of surveillance have been violated by the power structures themselves or interpreted differently. We know many trials of interest to the public, which have run into congestion precisely because these licences have not been properly dealt with or have been interpreted differently. In this way, doubts have been thrown into the air and things have not got anywhere, because the processing of permits itself or the understanding of this procedure has been somewhat misguided. Is this procedure planned to be improved? Of course, in addition to the fact that the authorisation of surveillance activities could only take place in court, it would be clearer and there would be fewer interpretations when the permit started, when it ended, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U120	Thank you. As of 1 January, amendments to the law substantially changed the procedures for surveillance activities in criminal proceedings, including informing persons about them, entered into force. I believe that the changes that have recently come into legal order need to be tested a little bit in life. In my opinion, this change has been quite meaningful. Information to people about surveillance activities has changed greatly. There is an annual time limit within which the prosecutor may extend the permission not to notify the person of the surveillance operation at all, from which the decision will go to court. Certainly, the previous Minister of Justice deserves praise for these changes. This does not mean that we will not continue to deal with this issue. I also referred in my presentation to the inclusion of academic knowledge. Under the leadership of the University of Tartu, criminal proceedings are currently being reviewed, the main focus is on the fundamental rights of people. This work is ongoing, and if there are proposals that any changes should also be made to surveillance activities, then we will certainly be open to debate. If these changes come to the Chamber, then each of you will be able to speak out whether they are reasonable or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U121	Thank you. Please, Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is extremely important to guarantee fundamental rights in all procedures, and I certainly agree with that. But I would like to point out once that, in the absence of this issue, the whole objective of the penal policy, as you have also pointed out in the slides, is still to prevent new crimes. That's what my question is about. Recently, national broadcasting published news that the statistics of the Finnish Road Safety Agency for four years show that more than 12,000 drinkers were prevented from driving because of their alcohol lock. Is it planned to use this analytical activity and potential, which is in the Ministry of Justice and partly in the Ministry of the Interior, to prevent future alcohol-related crimes in traffic, as well as violent crimes, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U123	Thank you. I believe that it should not only be the Ministry of Justice, but it should be the responsibility of all ministries to constantly watch and monitor what can be done to prevent crime. When we are talking about traffic, I believe that we should wait for academics to assess whether the changes introduced into penal law some time ago in connection with drunk driving have fulfilled their purpose or not. One thing is a sanction, or a punishment for an act, and if so, how harsh it is. Another thing is how we can achieve the goal of not committing these acts. Alcolock means dealing with the consequences. In fact, a person's mind should be so clear that he does not drive after drinking alcohol. If you're drinking, don't drive, it's a simple rule. It is not just about dealing with the consequences here, but much about when you can drive, the education system and raising a person at home. One very simple thing is forgotten: drunken driving means putting not only himself but also fellow road users and other citizens at risk. I am prepared to deal with anything that can help reduce both drunken driving and other crime. What exactly are these measures, it's hard to say when you shoot from this remote hip.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U124	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. About 2500 people are released from prison in Estonia each year. Often they have nowhere to go, even though many of them are helped by a probation worker. Are there sufficient support systems to integrate those released from prison into society, or can there be much more to be done in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U126	Thank you. The short answer is, once again, that the legal basis here is sufficient. It is a question of how we apply the law. If we look at the re-socialisation service as a whole and at the moment when a person is released from prison, he or she should be guaranteed his or her former residence, and if he or she does not have a place of residence, this should be guaranteed by the municipality. It's in the law. Now the question is whether and how much it will be implemented in practice. I think we both know a lot of examples that a person doesn't have a place to live. That is certainly one reason why people are once again caught in the chain of crime. Therefore, reversibility is also high. That is why there is a measure of reintegration and why criminal practitioners do their jobs every day, perhaps helping people to reintegrate into society. It was also mentioned in my speech, but I say once again that a person cannot practice living between four concrete walls, but the re-socialization must take place as far as possible outside the prison walls. In prison, too, a person must be able to take responsibility for his or her activities and practice working life, which is why there is a prison industry that the honourable questioner knows about. This is all happening to make it easier to re-create. But, of course, on certain issues, particularly as regards residence, the situation is not as rosy as it might be.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U127	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much to the Minister of Justice. We are going to negotiate with the representatives of the political groups. First of all, I would like to ask for a presentation of the speech chair as a representative of the Group of the Centre Party of Marika Tuus-Laul. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say that it is a good thing that the decision 'Accepting the Developments of Criminal Policy until 2018' has been adopted, which was initiated by all six political groups in the previous Riigikogu and which obliges the government to submit a report on this to the Riigikogu by 1 March of each year. The main objective of criminal policy is, as we know, to reduce crime. These trends may not be so clearly reflected in the annual comparison, but if we look for a longer time, we can see that a certain pattern is drawn. However, the annual comparison, as the Minister pointed out, shows, for example, that 4% fewer crimes were registered. On the one hand, it is, of course, delightful, but we must also consider that people in Estonia have fallen short and that, if 58% of people have given up reporting the theft, for example, this is a very deep point of thinking. As the Minister, according to last year's criminal record, was quite detailed and the information became clearer in the round of questions and answers, I am instead devoting our group's speaking time to legislative steps concerning the criminal procedural problem and the related gaps where no solution has been found to the problems so far. All the more so as the Minister's presentation began with this. The Minister, in his presentation, pointed out that it was last year that we spoke more about the protection of fundamental rights of individuals, the presumption of innocence, moral assessments and much more. Yeah, we talked a lot about statistics today. However, in order to assess the quality of crime statistics, the resolution of crime needs to be assessed first and foremost. Some representatives of the Supreme Court consider that amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which entered into force in 2011, are inclined towards the Prosecutor's Office. Legal expert and attorney-at-law Leon Glikman has said that a large part of his civilian clientship has been under attack on one way or another by the state, hence the prosecutor's office. According to him, neither the restrictions on access to surveillance activities nor the time limits for preliminary investigations meet the requirements of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and are inclined towards the State. This has also been confirmed by several judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, where Estonia has been accused of doing so. At the same time, the problem comes from life itself. There have been cases that the pre-trial investigation has been going on for years, but it has all ended with damage to the person's reputation. In the Estonian legal system, the time limits for criminal investigations were abolished in 2004. If, for example, pre-trial investigations and court proceedings last for four years or more, the human rights court considers this to be an infringement, while there are too many examples in Estonia. On the other hand, we have too many compromise procedures where the final truth remains unclear. It makes society resentful. On 16 October 2012, the Central Party Group presented a draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws in this Chamber, which takes account of all the points described. The European Court of Human Rights has been complaining about the fundamental rights of individuals against Estonia since 2008, but so far these errors have not been corrected in our legal system. That's why we submitted this bill. We very much hope that this bill will be supported in the Chamber. Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, has also taken the view that these changes in Estonian law should have been made a long time ago. I would like to remind you that when Estonia joined the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in 1996, we also committed ourselves to the Convention. The judgments of the European Court of Human Rights established under the Convention are not directly applicable in the Estonian legal system as a whole, but if one of the parties to the Convention is an Estonian state, this convention is still binding on us nationally. At the beginning of this year, the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities of the Riigikogu presented the overview of surveillance activities completed last year at the Ministry of Justice. Chairman Peep Aru pointed out that the number of surveillance permits increased by 668 cases, or 9%, compared to the previous year. (As an intermediary type, 65% of all surveillance permits are authorisations for calls and requests by the telephone number holder, but these operations are no longer considered as surveillance under the legal amendment which entered into force at the beginning of this year. So in the future, we will not get a full overview of who, when and on what basis has been watching us.) At the same time, the question arises: if the number of surveillance permits increased by 9% last year, crime resolution has fallen by 1.5%. If more people were being followed, there would have been more crimes to be solved. As a job done by the Ministry of Justice, it must also be mentioned that the State Liability Act continues to be incompatible with the Constitution. I would like to conclude by saying that in the case of certain crimes, the abolition of the principle of absolute legality in the Estonian legal system must be considered. Criminal proceedings are currently required every time the signs of a crime appear. However, there are very many cases where the victim, for example, does not exist or does not want criminal proceedings to be opened. We could thus save money and human resources, which could help preventative work and solve more serious crimes. Let us remember that the number of prisoners in Estonia is still one of the largest in the European Union, by the way, at the same level as the Republic of South Africa, the USA and Russia, even Romania and Bulgaria, for example, are lower. Prison is a crime school, as the report says. Prison punishment is also very expensive, but there are people in prison who are often not dangerous to others, such as computer criminals and many others. When talking about developments in criminal policy, we should not overlook these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U129	Thank you. Please, Neeme as representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U130	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Presentations by the members of the government on one or other issue from the Riigikogu are daily routines of the Riigikogu, whether it is a presentation of a draft law or a response to questions made by members of the Riigikogu. According to the Constitution, the Government of the Republic, as the executive state authority, organises, among other tasks, the implementation of the decisions of the Riigikogu. Why am I repeating the basics that we all know? Because listening to the minister's report on the implementation of the Riigikogu decision is somewhat different from the normal parliamentary control over the activities of the Government of the Republic. Nor are we dealing with a political debate on developments in the field. The Riigikogu decision at issue today on the establishment of developments in criminal policy, but also, for example, the decision to confirm developments in legal policy is explicitly a set of tasks, activities and principles assigned by the Riigikogu to the government, the control mechanism of which has been incorporated into the decision itself in the form of regular reporting before the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu's decision on developments in criminal policy adopted in 2010 provides that each Ministry reports annually to the Ministry of Justice on the implementation of developments, on the basis of which the Government of the Republic will present to the Riigikogu, no later than 1 March, an annual review of the implementation of developments in criminal policy. Implementation is, of course, an activity-based concept and requires activities, both substantive and technical. For example, activities such as these same reports from other ministries to the Ministry of Justice. Unfortunately, we did not know from the report whether the envisaged cooperation mechanism was actually working. We could not know how the containment of organised crime, including economic, corruption, cyber and human trafficking, is progressing, even though these types of crime are also classified as particularly harmful to society in criminal policy developments. We learned that academic experts are involved in the design of criminal policy and that 56 persons released from prison were offered support services. That's great. Just in case, I would mention that 2155 convicted persons were released from prison in 2011 and 56 of them were offered support services in 2012. So, however, only a few people get support services. However, developments have identified such an important principle that the prevention of offences must take place primarily at local level. According to the document, it is the task of the local government to reduce the contributing factors by involving local residents and the private and non-profit sector. Unfortunately, we did not hear about the presentation of the government's progress in cooperation with the local level on prevention. We learned that good cooperation is with the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Riigikogu, especially the Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, which of course delights, but this is unfortunately not the focus of this document. We heard from the report that we should take a better view of the prisoners and talk about the principle of normality. On the other hand, developments also speak of the protection of the victim and the witness, which we unfortunately did not read out of this report. Developments in criminal policy place emphasis on four areas. Not for two, but for four: prevention of juvenile delinquency, repeat criminality, anti-personal crime and organised and serious cover-up crime. We heard statistics, which in some cases are delightful, but in some cases saddening. Crime statistics should not be very inspirational, because we do not really know whether the increase or decrease in the number of registered crimes in a particular area and during a certain period of time is due to a reduction in crime or the fact that the police have taken a particular form of crime into consideration or that resources have been diverted elsewhere. The total number of registered crimes is decreasing, but it is also stated that half the thefts and violent crimes are not known by the police because people simply do not report them. In 2012, 19000 theft cases started criminal proceedings. However, it states that 58% of cases are not reported. Thus, there are nearly 45000 thefts per year in Estonia, i.e. 123 thefts per day. There has been a significant increase in violence against the authority, against the same police officer. We learned from the statistics that the number of registrations of serious infringements of public policy has decreased, but the number of registrations of rape and child pornography offences has increased considerably, which should also be positive information. I don't even know how to be happy! In any case, everyone is delighted to know that the number of killings has decreased significantly. We are still far from the European average, but the reduction is positive. However, we did not know whether this had happened because of the government's actions or whether it had happened. However, we learned from the report about the activities of the Government of the Republic that the Minister of the Interior has started to look for effective prevention options to reduce youth and drug crime and that the Ministry of Justice will certainly not stand by. I'm really glad to hear it! Only three years have passed since the decision of the Riigikogu was taken and opportunities have already been sought. We also learned that we should give more consideration to changing the content of imprisonment, that the Ministry of Justice monitors the length of procedures relating to children, that we need a new law on child protection, that we need a much more substantial cooperation between ministries, and that we should be more critical in assessing and asking ourselves. Finally, we learned that it is time to review policies and, if necessary, to make changes to them. It must be said that the Minister of Justice is right: it is indeed time to do so. First of all, however, the Riigikogu should hear from the Minister the report that the Riigikogu decision provides for as an annual report, i.e. a report on activities, not a report on positions, findings and intentions, we should hear a report on more activities than mere provision of drugs and alcoholism treatment as a substitute punishment. Almost every point in the trends contains measurable activity. At the moment, however, there is a feeling that there was an introduction, but there was no overview of the activities in itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U131	Thank you. I would like to ask for a speech chair as representative of the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union of Marko Pomerants. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U132	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, a member of the Riigikogu is completely free in his speeches, but I would like to say to my good colleague Marika that this speech can also be held on 12 March if we take up the first reading of bill 295 in this Chamber. When we look around, we see that the situation in Estonia is completely boring compared to the rest of the world and we must enjoy it. Consider, for example, estimates of the threat of organised crime on a global scale. There are keywords such as trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking, firearms, smuggling with natural resources, brand counterfeiting, piracy, cyber crime, in the European context more fraud, cigarette smuggling, counterfeiting, arms trafficking and all that can happen online. In Estonia's circumstances, although there is a problem here, we are fortunately unable to paint such a colourful picture. Yeah, crime figures are dropping. There is certainly no right in yesterday's 'Rainer', where people were thought to be few, the number of qualified criminals was also decreasing and, therefore, the situation is improving by going completely down the path of crime. Neeme enraged that there was no review of the changes and the minister spoke more of something else. I'm afraid to acknowledge the Justice Department. Everyone who has looked at the Justice Department's website has seen that there are very good overviews of criminal statistics and investigations. A study on the crime of our compatriots in Finland could serve as an example of style. There, as criminals, the people of Estonia are able to be a little more powerful than the percentage of Estonians in the population could expect. But to go to a neighboring country to do evil, you don't necessarily have to live there. More statistics. The same incident of Viljandi police officers has probably received hundreds of clicks on the Internet. But look at the statistics that have actually happened in Viljandi County. While 1023 crimes were registered there in 2010, more than 750 crimes were recorded in 2012. In fact, the situation has improved considerably. Indeed, if there is anything to be desired from statistics, the ratios of the increase or decrease in the number of crimes per 10000 inhabitants, in addition to the percentage reduction in comparison to the so-called old age, could be indicated. It would also make sense to include demographic data as the population in smaller counties changes. Yes, there is perhaps no reason to be very happy in a situation where we have 50 trained supporters and only 56 people have received this support service. Surely we should make more reasonable use of our resources. At all, the re-existence of former criminals will certainly remain a major challenge. We have been discussing the problems of our carers in this Chamber as a matter of national importance. I'm not sure that the issue of the re-socialization of criminals in this hall will come as a matter of national importance, but I don't know. One thing we can all be sure to contribute to, members of the Riigikogu, as we are, is improving the state of justice and explaining the relationship between justice and justice. I'm sure there's a number of court decisions here that give you some thought. This does not mean that these solutions are not considered, considered and correct, and are not based on facts. The concern is that thefts are not always reported and how much thefts would be if people always reported these cases. I found the opposite example that raised my eyebrow. This s is the root of it. a 20 February from the Virumaa Official Journal. The news title was 'Two gold teeth were stolen from the charter' and it sounded this way: 'On Monday, 12 euros and two gold teeth were stolen from the apartment on Seminar Street in Rakvere. The owner estimated the damage at EUR 12. 'So there was a reported theft. Although the news speaks of theft of gold teeth, the owner himself has considered gold teeth to be nothing, but he has regretted 12 euros. Neeme the Great repeated that the Minister of Justice seems to have a good relationship with the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I dare assure you that I have the same relationship with the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Everything that concerns our discussions is happening in a friendly and cooperative manner. Finally, I am talking about the logic of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It has been said here that there are very many compromise procedures. But I want to tell you, honourable citizens, that what the legislator has wanted is what he has received. When the Code of Criminal Procedure was dealt with in the early 2000s, one of the purposes of the procedure was that the number of general proceedings should be reduced. Of course, I also welcome the Minister's optimism when he thinks that judges might be able to supervise more types of tracking permits. But I think the first thing to do is to have judges in our courthouses for the day-to-day trial, whether in Valga or in Ida-Virumaa. These areas, which are highlighted in this report, are, in my opinion, relevant. The world is complicated. We must take into account what is happening around us, both in Europe and in the rest of the world. We will move forward, as the Minister suggested, on a cross-party basis, so that people in Estonia can live better and safer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U133	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Reform Party, I ask for a speech chair in Igor Gräzini. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U134	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to point out that we should not confuse two things with today's debate: there is substantive law and there is procedural law. Everything that concerns surveillance and other such matters is still linked to the criminal process, specifically criminal investigations and investigative activities, which are not the subject of today's debate. I do agree, however, that there are extremely serious problems with the prosecution's office and the surveillance of the kapo. Hopefully they'll be here sooner than later. The Centre Party has prepared a draft on this subject, which is currently being discussed in the Working Group of the Ministry of Justice. This is certainly a problem, but it is not a problem for today's debate. I start with a quote that is quite often said here: 'Justice or justice must not only be understood, but all of it must also look like justice and justice. ' I think we have talked a lot about this as a right, and we have recently spoken very little about the fact that, apart from the fact that it seems to be a right, there must also be a right. That's what I want to talk about today. It is inevitably the case that we all come into contact with tabloid things: land exchange (which lasts from the days of the bliss maker's coming to the earth and apparently ends with his second arrival), arms trafficking in South Estonia, resulting in two men being shot, a wholesale fight in Viljandi, shooting on Türi, the case of the teacher in Tõrtamaa and the corruption cases that have become common practice in Tallinn, which apparently will never end. By the way, when we talk about justice, Mr Van Rompuy is arriving at any moment, which reminded me that the transfer of Euro-Activist Anna-Maria Galojan to her great homeland is undoubtedly also something that we have paid attention to. What brings all these things together? All of them have hurt our sense of justice. All of this has resulted in the media writing a lot about these things, often biasedly. Worst of all, we have somehow gone through the fact that in our criminal law the press has become a more important judicial body and a judge than official judicial bodies. Formally, criminal policy should be impartial. That is why, as the Minister has also spoken, we appeal to scientists and ask them what we have to do in the criminal field. At the same time, when we read the press, we understand how socially sensitive criminal law is. This means that if we are to seek justice and justice, that is our task as citizens and legislators, then we actually have to ask the people, we have to ask the same society and discuss with the society what the crime is, what is out of our everyday understanding of justice. If we compare the current criminal law situation, for example, with the year 1995 and if we read the excellent works of Andres Anvelt, we will understand that those times were fun, but they were quite awful. We must say that, as a country (which is certainly in cooperation with all political parties), we have reached a new phase of civilization compared to this. The fun 1995 when the so-called Hendrikson hump was shot and one victim climbed into EMEX's metal warehouse to die, never came back, and thank God. This is our common achievement. However, we recognise that law enforcement and the situation in the area of criminal law are far from what we would like. It was mentioned here that we very often do not trust law enforcement (this was an example of theft). There are really latent crimes with bribes. There are pseudo-latent crimes, rape and theft. In their case, we simply don't trust our law enforcement bodies. A separate subject is prison. Prison links with drug and alcohol addiction are remarkable. The prison system obviously doesn't work as well as it needs to work to get rid of these addictions. Three quarters of the relapsers are opiate addicts. There has been a lot of talk about the curator of the prisons lately (in a different context), but I have to say that it was not a very wise decision for him to take condoms away from the prisons. The real consequence is that the proportion of HIV positives in the prison population has increased. I will take this opportunity to say thank you to a great many of my fellow citizens, to help police officers and simply to active people who are doing everything they can to make sure that criminals have no place among us. But they need to know that crime is controlled not only by their enthusiasm, but also by the systematic and informed politics of the country. We need to ask objectively what the crime is and then continue with criminal policy. New formations are emerging: drug crimes, child pornography, digital piracy, characteristic of the 21st century. And maybe something we could say is that it's not a crime that matters enough to involve the entire criminal repression apparatus. I think (the Minister also referred to this) that, probably, one of the most important criminal policy papers, I am just saying that the criminal-political work that we are facing is apparently also a review of criminal laws and criminal offences, so that we can understand what is still a crime in terms of our sense of justice and what is, in any case, a mischief that we should not be wasting state resources on. But thank you, everyone!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U135	Thank you very much. We have completed the debate on the 2012 report on 'Criminal Policy Developments until 2018'. The Riigikogu does not take a decision in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U136	The fourth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. I ask Kadri Simson, member of the Riigikogu, to speak!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit that seeing less than a fifth of the members of the Riigikogu in the Chamber and being in front of the Riigikogu for the third time with this bill, I was struck by the idea that I would probably understand Elizabeth Taylor's seventh husband, who knew what had to be done, but did not know how to do it. Nevertheless, I am trying to explain to you why we have the opportunity to make sure that the price of electricity is not as high as it is for domestic consumers and companies in Estonia, and why we have to use this opportunity. There are quite good statistics in the European Union. According to the latest data from the European Commission, the sixth of the 27 countries has a higher excise duty than in Estonia. These are Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Austria, Finland and Sweden. All six countries that add a higher excise duty to electricity than Estonia are well known to be far more prosperous than we are. The per capita GDP of all of them is about half that of us. The remaining 20 countries of the European Union have introduced lower electricity excise duties. In the European Union, electricity is taxed very differently, but our own Statistical Office has concluded that Estonia stands out in Europe with the high tax burden added to the price of electricity. When it comes to non-refundable taxes (in the case of businesses, VAT is not taken into account here), they vary considerably from country to country in the case of business consumers. The highest share of non-refundable taxes in 2010 was the price of electricity paid by the business consumer in Germany and Italy (whichever 23%), followed by the Netherlands (18%) and fourthly Estonia (17%). In most European countries, the share of taxes in the price paid by business consumers is less than 5%. Like the commercial consumer, the share of taxes varies considerably from country to country in the price paid by the household consumer. The price paid by Estonia's domestic consumer is one of the largest in comparison with other European countries, as is the share of taxes in the price paid by the business consumer. In a competitive manner, Denmark and Germany manage the share of the tax burden in the price of electricity paid by the household consumer. The Danish tax burden is even more than half the price of electricity, in Germany it is just under half. Estonia's tax burden is almost 30% of the price of electricity paid by the household consumer. Of this, the share of taxes is slightly higher in Sweden and Portugal, but in most European countries the tax burden on domestic consumers is 20% when it comes to the price of electricity. Less than 10% of the tax is the proportion of the price paid by the household consumer in Latvia, Malta and Great Britain. In the case of household customers, VAT is also included in the tax. This draft, which would reduce the amount of electricity excise duty added to electricity in Estonia to 4.5 times, i.e. the European Union's minimum rate, has been dealt with in the Riigikogu for three years. For the first time in 2011, large companies had already moved to an open electricity market. In 2011, the Minister for Economic Affairs improved this bill by asking why people are intimidated that the open market will lead to price increases. In addition, according to the Minister, it could have been argued that there was a scenario that the open market would lead to a reduction in electricity prices. That is what the Minister said on 16 May 2011 here in the Riigikogu Chair. In 2012, we came up with this bill again. It was then voted out, claiming that the government had a much better plan, namely that the government had a plan to lower the renewable energy fee. We are now in a position where the assumption that the price of electricity will not increase with the opening of the market has proved wrong. The price has increased. We are also in a situation where the reduction of the renewable energy fee has stopped right here in the Riigikogu. Tomorrow, this bill will be under discussion. As far as I am concerned, the Committee on Economic Affairs has decided to suspend the reading of the draft law on the reduction of renewable energy charges for an indefinite period. It is said that this is no longer up to us, but requires a European State aid permit, with no one knowing how long it will take to obtain this authorisation. But the fact is that from January, the Estonian state will collect about a tenth more taxes for 1 kilowatt-hour of energy in total than at the end of last year. Perhaps the Estonian state has won the price increase, the tax money will receive more, because VAT will be added to the higher price, and the steps that were promised have not actually been taken. Now back to the electric excise, which is known to be the smallest of the five components of the electric bill. The excise duty was introduced for electricity in 2008 and has been raised once more in 2010. VAT added to electricity is also known to be increased. In January of this year, in addition to the electricity own tariff, the network fee increased. When we discussed the draft on the same subject last year, it was the government's objection that the household electricity tariff could in itself rise by only 16% or 17%, and the 40% increase in the electricity tariff in the calculations of the Centre Party is clearly over-subscribed. This argument has not lasted in time. In addition to the fact that last year the reduction of excise duty was improved by a 'no' vote, claiming that the Central Party's version was not appropriate, it was also said that if no excise duty is collected four and a half times higher than the European Union demands, there will be a hole in the state budget. That was the question of the source of the cover. Last year we offered the Estonian Energia dividend and more value added tax as a source of cover. It didn't fit last year, it didn't fit last night. But the fact is that the dividend is very strongly withdrawn from Eesti Energia. While only 6.2 million euros were taken out of Eesti Energia in 2005, in recent years this amount has increased by nearly ten times. In 2010, it was 109.2 million euros, 56 million euros in 2011, 65.5 million euros last year and this year, according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, 75 million euros are planned to be taken out of Eesti Energia as a dividend. The bill that is on the table in front of you would mean an excise duty of EUR 12 million less. We were also talking about the fact that VAT will inevitably be added to the price of increased electricity, and it will become more available to the state. Large consumers have been on the open market for two years. While it is estimated that 8 terawatt-hours of electricity are used annually in Estonia, large consumers use roughly one third, or 2.6 terawatts. The remaining 5.4 sharps were purchased on the market open from January this year, with a significant increase in the price paid by small and medium-sized enterprises and households. If you look at the electricity bills at the end of last year and at this year's electricity bills, it should be taken into account that the average consumer does not exist exactly, everyone has received a special offer. However, in general terms, VAT has started to increase by 0.41 euro cents per kilowatt-hour, or 4.1 euros per megawatt-hour and 4.1 million euros per terawatt-hour. Thus, these 5.4 terawatt-hours, which will be purchased on the open market this year, can bring more than EUR 20 million into the state budget in the form of increasing VAT. Lowering the electricity excise duty for half a year, from 1 July, would cost EUR 12 million. It has been discussed whether such a large amount of electricity excise duty is already planned for this year's budget. I am saying that when the ministers said until the end of last year that this increase would not be so high, they could not have planned it in the budget as such. However, assuming that such a tax collection due to price increases was planned for the budget, we have this time proposed a reduction in the tax hole as the source of the draft. It contains three specific proposals from the tax administration, which have not been taken into account, but which could be taken into account and which would generate revenue for the Estonian state in the form of better collection of existing taxes. Our proposal is quite specific, especially when comparing how the effects of the so far government proposals have been measured. The Committee on Monetary Affairs did not want to talk at all about whether it was right to add 4.5 times the excise duty on electricity that the European Union was demanding, but rather about whether our source of cover was correct. That's why I thought we were looking for two pieces of legislation that became legendary. One of the draft laws for which the member of the Riigikogu was Aivar Sõerd (the co-rapporteur on this point) was the draft law amending the Income Tax Act. It is known that this draft will reduce people's income tax from 21% to 20% from 2015. The explanatory memorandum to this draft stated how much the State's revenue would decrease (that was quite a large amount) but no source of cover had been provided. The draft law amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts homeowners from land tax, was even more drastic. It did not come from the government, it was initiated by the IRL and Reform Party in the Riigikogu, the representatives of these groups signed this draft. This bill was adopted quite quickly as a law. The explanatory memorandum stated that the adoption of the draft act as a law would not entail any additional costs for the state budget, although it would take away a considerable amount from the municipalities. So the Riigikogu Hall has voted in favour of draft laws whose sources and calculations of impact have been non-existent. This has not prevented the three readings from being carried out quite quickly, but it has not prevented the analysis of where the money is coming from being taken away from the state budget by such populist legislative initiatives. Worse still, in parallel with our excise bill, there will be an amendment to the Electricity Market Act, which should reach the point that a lower renewable energy fee will be added to the electricity bill. If it is 0.87 cents per kilowatt-hour now, then it should fall to 0.8 cents in the future. During the discussions in the Committee on Finance, it became clear that the Ministry of Finance calculated very precisely the costs of our draft, not only the amount of money that would not be collected due to the lower excise duty, but also the amount of VAT lost as a result of the reduction in the electricity bill, but the reduction in the renewable energy fee initiated by the government was forgotten and it was stated that there were no costs. When we asked for these costs to be calculated, it took some time, but this calculation did come. It turned out that if people were to be boasted that, due to a reduction in renewable energy prices, EUR 300 million would remain in their hands until the end of this decade, the value added tax not collected would be EUR 22.6 million. Please note that the explanatory memorandum states that there are no costs. This means that if there is a will to reduce the electricity bill, the state will find these resources. I do not think that this draft should certainly be voted out at first reading because it is not possible to cover the costs. The cost coverage is set out very clearly and comprehensively in the draft explanatory memorandum. This was also acknowledged by a representative of the Ministry of Finance in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I think the draft is very important to take advantage of the opportunity to reduce electricity bills. The reduction of the electricity excise duty does not require a European Union permit, costly disputes or negotiations with companies that can eventually go to court. Lowering electricity excise duty is a quick and concrete way to reduce electricity bills a little. I'm sure you can't stop there. The Minister must also be required to work; it must be demanded that the promise to reduce the renewable energy fee should not remain in any uncertain future; it must be demanded that he be responsible for the continuous increase of Elering and its network fee; the Competition Authority under his authority should be required to deal with why the general service of Eesti Energia has such a high profit margin, which is 47% higher than the electricity of the Viru Chemistry Group, for example. These are all the steps that can be taken, but they cannot be taken in the Chamber of the Riigikogu; they must be taken by the Minister of Economic Affairs, who is responsible for this area. We can, here, lower the electricity excise duty to the minimum allowed in the European Union. We can make sure that Estonian electricity does not have such a large tax supplement attached to the state. We can act a little more rationally by lowering the electric excise duty by 4.5 times. Thank you for your attention. I am grateful for the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U138	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You referred to the Bill on Income Tax and, for some reason, you mentioned me. I remember that there was a ruling by the European Court of Justice, which the Estonian state would have had to comply with. In such cases, money usually needs to be found, for example, in the government reserve. But I have a question about your bill. A member of the Riigikogu is entitled to receive accurate data from the government. I have the Finance Department's assessment of your draft, which says that if the bill comes into force, the average family's electricity bill will decrease by 84 cents a month. Why don't you admit that the impact of your bill on the average family's electricity bill is still very small?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U140	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, you have been a very hardworking member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. At the moment, I was not talking about the bill that you last dealt with when you did not know how many pensioners there were in Estonia, who would receive this income tax exemption and how much this cost was, but I was talking about one of the previous draft income tax laws. This was draft number 40 of its composition, which was launched on 10 May 2011 and concerned a 1% reduction in the rate of income tax, which is known to cost more than EUR 70 million, but there was no explanation where this money came from. So the magnitude is hundreds of times greater. When it comes to saving an average family, it is very difficult to consider the average family when it comes to electricity. I understand that the members of the Riigikogu believe that the electricity bill of many people rose by only a few euros. What is a euro? But if we mean that the limit of living in Estonia is only 76 euros, then food in this situation will be limited to 2 euros a day. Thus, a few euros is also a considerable amount for such families. We must also bear in mind that there are about 15,000 households in Estonia who heat their homes with electricity. To them, the increase in electricity prices that took place in January is so severe that it questions whether people can keep their homes. For these families, electricity is not a luxury product from which to save because they have built heating mechanisms, the conversion of which is also a very high cost. Any price reduction would be of great help to them. In a broad sense, we have calculated that lowering the electricity excise duty by 4.5 times would give the average family a family that does not heat up the savings of 15 euros a year with electricity in its home.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U141	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U142	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I am astonished to hear that EUR 15 to 17 per year, or EEK 250 per year, some believe that the amount is too small to deal with at all. But what do you think would be the effect of reducing the renewable energy fee, how much would the average family gain from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U143	Last year the renewable energy fee was allowed to be reduced from 0.97 cents per kilowatt-hour to 0,80 cents. This promise has not been honoured. But if this promise were fully fulfilled, its effect would be half that of lowering the electricity excise duty. Together, these two reductions would already be of considerable help. However, if one tries to say that electricity excise duty is not reduced because its effect is too low, but instead half the renewable energy fee with less impact is reduced, there is a logic error in this argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U144	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U145	Thank you. Dear waitress, During the preparation of this draft, did it also confirm that the government knew exactly how much the budget would gain in the new year and went out on a "full bank"? Let's do this thing, get the money out of the crowd!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U146	You can't exactly say what the government knew. With regard to the professionalism of the government, conclusions can be drawn from the fact that at the end of the year, Minister of Economic Affairs Juhan Parts said that there is no need to worry if no new agreement has been concluded, because then the general service may remain. At the beginning of the year in front of the Riigikogu, he said that fortunately the Estonian people are not stupid enough to be able to conclude contracts. So some conflicting statements have also come from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It seems to me that the increase in prices is quite acceptable to the government, because it can show that the state budget is better balanced. The balance of the state budget is now considered to be supreme; people's daily livelihood is not considered to be so important.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U147	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U148	Thank you. Just before the hearing started, I got a call from an invalid lady saying that Kadri Simson helped her pay one of the electricity bills because she's not capable of doing it herself right now. He also asked me to help him with other home expenses. He was hoping next month would be a little easier for him and he could handle himself. I imagine that for such a person there is still a very large amount of EUR 15 to 17 per year. Do you think the government could meet us here for VAT? We know that a number of European countries have, however, reduced VAT on home expenses, and that there would already be significantly more money coming from there. Or does the government take every opportunity to get more money from the public to patch up budget holes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U149	Thank you. This week, news came out that last year's real pension decreased. Also this year, in January, February and March, prices are already higher, but the pension increase, which will be less than indexation would allow, will not come to those who have to receive it until April. This increase clearly hits people with lower incomes in particular. If they pay their daily home expenses, they will have 76 euros to live for a month. This lady you mentioned will receive help from the local government to pay for living expenses, but if there is an emergency, living with EUR 76 will require a great deal of effort. Now for the reduction in VAT. Estonia has rather moved in a different direction: VAT has been raised in many areas of life. True, the value added tax on electricity was 18% and the rise to 20% means only a 2% increase, but the increase in network charges has certainly been higher, which coincided with the opening up of the electricity market at the beginning of this year. The network fee increased by 13%. This is a significant increase and could have been prevented. Elering, however, is directly under the direction of the Minister for Economic Affairs and the increase in network charges should also be controlled by the Competition Authority. The Competition Authority makes these decisions fairly modestly. We'll see what he can do with the general service margin. But before you go to the VAT percentage, it would certainly be worth looking at online services, looking at how justified this increase is. The Minister for Economic Affairs must also be supported so that he can deliver on his promise of a renewable energy charge.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-26_U150	Thank you. The debate on the agenda item is ongoing as the time for the sitting is limited. Aivar Riisalu and Aivar Sõerd will be able to ask their questions when the debate on the subject will continue in the next session. I wish everyone a beautiful day! Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
