ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. I hope the ministers will also arrive. Let's start the briefing. Please, let's do the presence check first! 40 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, 61 missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Since today we have ten questions registered, ladies and gentlemen, I can only allow two rounds of quick fingers for each issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U2	Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Vasilyev, your question to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U3	Good Prime Minister! In Question Time last week, you mentioned that among the three candidates who reached the finals of the public competition for the election of the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board, there is one person who, in your opinion, would be very well suited to running the office. You also said that you do not agree with the statement that the Minister of the Interior wishes to politicise the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board. In the meantime, the water has flowed into the sea, the circumstances have clarified. Do you still agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U4	You gave me two statements, and I'm sticking with both of them right now. Once again, I'm going to go over what's in the law. The Minister of Internal Affairs appoints the name of the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board and the government appoints the Director General, heard the opinion of the Legal Committee of the Riigikogu. Hearing the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Riigikogu is of substantial importance to me. My understanding of the parliamentary state is that the candidate nominated by the Minister of the Interior must necessarily be approved by the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, without this approval cannot be accepted. And if the Government did not take into account the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I think that it would behave in a way that does not take account of the fundamental values of parliamentary democracy. Once approval from the Committee on Legal Affairs has been obtained, a candidate who has been approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs will certainly be reached, then the time for the substantive debate has already come for the members of the government. They too may well consider the decision they make. I believe that this will ultimately be a good decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U5	Please, Mr Vasilyev, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U6	How are you generally satisfied with the process of the Minister for the Interior trying to push through his favourite, with whom to come before the Committee on Legal Affairs first and then the government? Would others have reason to learn from it in similar situations, or rather is it an example that should not be learned?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U7	I have already made my assessment of the publication of the Commission's work. Certainly, the Commission's work should not be one that casts a shadow on the candidates for the post. And as I said last time in Question Time, I am also repeating that I consider all three persons in question to be good candidates. I believe that they will certainly step up in the future on the career path, and I would not appreciate this opinion from one of the Commissions. I think this certainly does not have to mean the end of these people's careers. In general, however, these leaks of information have not made a good impression. In this respect, I have nothing new to add compared to the last Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U8	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Mr Marika-Tuus Song! I'm sorry! However, I give the floor to Rannar Vassilyev. Dear colleague, you know you have a chance, please put your fingers to work faster! Please, Mr Vasilyev, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U9	I tried to push, but unfortunately, this modern screen didn't react so quickly to my fingertips. Here's what I want to ask you. You mentioned the possible misrepresentation of the three candidates who reached the final stage but did not gain the confidence of the Minister of the Interior. One possible candidate for Home Affairs is Priit Kama. How do you think his image has been affected by this whole process? In this light, does it make any sense for the Minister of the Interior to go to the government with this candidate? This background that has emerged in the public domain, Priit Kama, not the best reputation at the Police and Border Guard Board, asks if it is even possible to propose such a person as a Director-General candidate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U10	I don't want to get ahead of myself. According to the law, the Minister of the Interior has the right to propose. How the Minister of the Interior gets to the candidate he's going to propose to the government is up to him. Whether he uses the help of consultants or experts, negotiates with his closest co-workers or comes to recognition alone, this law does not regulate. Currently, the name of no candidate has been submitted to the government and has not been submitted to the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee. I repeat, I don't want to get ahead of myself. I don't want to make an assessment of someone who might be a candidate, but who might not be a candidate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U11	Now the questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U12	Prime Minister! I am pleased that I was able to convince the Committee on Legal Affairs that I cannot submit to the Commission a position on a new alleged candidate, whose name we do not know. The Commission had to guess and ask who it might be. Moreover, the political groups had not been negotiated. And so it was that we, the two members of the Central Party Group, opposed it. Three reform parties, one Social Democrat and also Kalle Laane, came along nicely with us. One of our arguments is that since Priit Kama is an active member of the IRL, with his approval, we would set a precedent for politicising the Estonian police organisation. How do you feel about this? Is this partying needed, or are there other reasons why this has been decided?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U13	Speculation on the politicisation of the Police and Border Guard Board is certainly premature and not very appropriate. Even if a person who is currently a member of a political party turns out to be a member of an office where membership of a political party is not permitted or favoured or recommended, he will certainly not politicise the office after taking up his duties. We should evaluate individuals, their ability to carry out the tasks assigned to them, not suspect them immediately of all evil, including attempts to politicise. I believe in the strength of our Police and Border Guard Board. I am quite convinced that even if someone had a desire and an attempt to politicise this office, it would not be possible to carry it out in the Republic of Estonia. Luckily!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U14	Please, Mr Neeme the Great! But, Prime Minister, you still had time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U15	There was time, but I would leave it to the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs to settle who went along with, either three members with two members or two members with three members, or there were those who were still involved and those who were still lagging behind.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U16	Thank you very much. Now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U17	Prime Minister! The competition that started at first was pretty normal. The candidates who initially participated in the competition were very good candidates: Tarmo Milits, Erkki Koort and Tõnu Hunt. Do you have any idea why none of them qualified?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U18	This question should be referred to the evaluation committee. They must have had specific assessment criteria there and it can be assumed that, in the Commission's view, these three distinguished individuals did not meet these high criteria. I have already expressed my mind and conviction. I think all three candidates were very strong candidates. They are doing very well with their current duties, and I think that the Director-General of the future Police and Border Guard Board could have been found among these three candidates. However, specific questions should be submitted to the members of the evaluation committee. Perhaps the Commission's assessment criteria have also been reported to the Minister for the Interior, in which case it would also be appropriate to ask the Minister for the Interior. I don't know why one, two or three candidates didn't turn out to be elected.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U19	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U20	The next question is from my colleague Lauri Laas to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U21	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Economic Affairs! Today, we are processing a draft law amending the Electricity Market Act in this Chamber, which should reduce the renewable energy fee paid by consumers. Unfortunately, it is still not clear how much this will actually reduce people's electricity bills. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the renewable energy charge set on new bases reduces the final electricity price by 4,5% on average over the period 2013 to 2020. Unfortunately, it's a pretty blurry perspective, a lot of loose ends. I ask you straight: if bill 318 is passed, how much will the electricity bill be reduced next month?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U22	The law amending the Electricity Market Act has a long-term effect. We predict that, compared to the current regulation, the consumer will cost less than EUR 300-350 million by 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U23	Please, Mr Laas, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U24	I'll tell you without a twist, I wasn't satisfied with your answer. I'll help you with some calculations. If the renewable energy fee is reduced from EUR 0,97 cent to EUR 0,8 cent per kilowatt-hour, this means a decrease of EUR 0,17 cents per kilowatt-hour. If we add VAT here, we get 0.2 cents per kilowatt-hour. If we multiply it times the average family's electricity bill, we get a reduction of 0.61 euros per month. Do you agree with my calculations that for one family, the electricity bill will decrease by 0.61 euros per month?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U25	I was not able to follow this calculation, to be honest, but we have to consider that the cost of electricity, depending on the family's budget, represents an average of 3 to 4% depending on the type of heating used. In families that don't heat electricity, electric bills aren't very big, and if you're doing analysis of one component, that could be the right amount. The same can be said about the impact of your initiative. You have tried to achieve a reduction in electric excise in this Chamber, which would have a microscopic effect. Yet you have made a big question of this. However, as far as the pending draft is concerned, we must take into account that the most fundamental change is that we link renewable energy support to the market price of electricity. If the market price of electricity increases, the renewable energy charge will start to fall. I think it is actually difficult to predict this relationship, in which case we must be able to foresee exactly the evolution of the electricity market over seven years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U26	Please, Mr Laas, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U27	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Your sacred event is jammed, and it has become clear that it is now necessary to go from the European Union to ask for a state aid permit and no one can tell how long it will take. If anyone can think that, maybe it's just you. I'm asking you when you're forecasting the adoption of Bill 318 as a law and the reduction of home expenses in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U28	I would not make such assessments of the work of my colleagues. I understand the Riigikogu wants to discuss this. Of course, as a member of the government, I would like the bill to become a law much faster, first of all. Secondly, I recommend that the Riigikogu adopt this bill as a law. The government would then be able to apply for State aid authorisation. I know that there is a different view in the Committee on Economic Affairs: to take a mid-term break after the second reading of the draft so that the government can apply for State aid authorisation. But I would point out that we can still apply for a State aid authorisation for a very clearly and definitively fixed system of support for renewable energy. If things go smoothly, the permit may come in a few months. It is clear that applying for a permit is not only a matter for the government and the European Commission, but it is also possible for market participants to have a say, to make known their reasoned views. After all, they have also come here to the Riigikogu to defend their interests, which is understandable. What we can do is take this draft into such a phase so that we can file an application for authorisation of state aid. It makes no sense for us to do this if we only have to rely on a draft that the hall has not approved in principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U29	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U30	Minister, thank you very much. If you have done so, you have always stressed that the current government's measure to mitigate the rise in electricity prices is the payment of income support to the vulnerable. However, how can these supposedly 5,000 people apply for income support? Not all of them are potential applicants for income support, who have not yet received the Estonian Energy bill? As we know, January's cost documents can be submitted to formalise the municipality's livelihood to the 20th day of each month, i.e. January's time fell on 20 February. January's bills will no longer be taken into account in March.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U31	I would advise these people to communicate with Eesti Energia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U32	Now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U33	Dear Minister, The root cause of my question is perhaps even a little inappropriate, because it concerns people working in this Chamber. In the speeches made by the free microphone in Mondays, there have been more and more statements which, I think, are not at all the bottom of the truth. This Monday, a respected opposition ambassador claimed that the IRL promised to halve heating, water and electricity costs before the elections. It was quite a surprise to me. As Minister of Economic Affairs, do you dare to claim that you have seen some buclet or television advertising that allowed them to halve their prices? In addition, the same speech stated that the law on the formation of network charges had been declared confidential. Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U34	Once again: as far as heating costs are concerned, Estonia's practice shows that if the house is properly heated, there is no talking about private houses at the moment, even though it is possible to reduce heat consumption by up to 50%. We know that houses are different, the reconstruction projects are different, and in this respect the results may vary, but there is about that much savings in heating costs. It's pretty easy! As far as network charges are concerned, which has also been discussed a lot, once again: the formation of network charges stems directly from the law, while many of the principles of the law are derived from the directives on the electricity market in the European Union. There was an argument that less investments could be made, in which case network charges would be lower. However, we must take into account that we need to make investments that I believe are of a strategic nature. These are Finland's connections: Estlink 1 and Estlink 2. We know that on the core network, the agreement with the Latvians on reserve capacity will soon be concluded. We will no longer have reserve capacity available, but it is our duty to ensure it. It is therefore reasonable to create reserve capacities in Estonia. All these decisions are not based on any thoughts that have come to the mind of the company, but are based on the development plan for the energy economy approved by consensus in the Riigikogu. These strategic investments, which have been called into question by several MPs of the Central Party here, are actually the decision of the majority of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U35	Thank you, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U36	The next question is from my colleague Kajar Lember to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U37	Good minister! The National Audit Office has done a commendable job again. Another topic of his audit was the organisation of public procurement in companies and foundations under the dominant influence of the state. The main conclusions of this audit were that several state-owned companies do not consider themselves to be contracting authorities within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act and therefore consider that they do not have to comply with the Public Procurement Act when purchasing anything. Since all public procurement issues are concentrated in the Ministry of Finance, I ask what is your position as Minister. Do you support the interpretation of the National Audit Office or companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U38	As usual, the National Audit Office can be a grateful worker from the point of view of the questioner. There's no news for us here. We are aware of the problem and note that the situation is very difficult in law. Each case must be examined in detail. In specific cases, opinions are both the opposite and the opposite. One example was brought to one of the hospitals in Tallinn, I can't remember which of the two big ones was it, where there was a dispute as to whether or not he had to tender. The hospital categorically refused to do so, but it was found that since it was not involved in open competition, it was still a contracting authority within the meaning of the law. It was a lawsuit. Often these things work out in court, but sometimes they can prevent it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U39	Please, Mr Lember, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U40	It was only a few years ago that a decision was taken to put an end to the activities of the Public Procurement Office and that the Ministry of Finance took over its responsibilities and tasks. The aim was to set up a competent centre to deal with matters centrally and in such an efficient way with supervision. It is now clear from this audit that the contracting authorities are not satisfied with the Ministry's advisory services either in the interpretation of the law or in the resolution of practical issues. I am therefore asking: do you believe that the liquidation of the Public Procurement Office was the right decision? Does the Ministry manage to coordinate this area well within the current structure, or is there some changes planned in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U41	The short answer is yes. This decision was very correct and there has been a qualitative change for the better. The functions of the Ministry of Finance are wider than those of the Public Procurement Office, and the results are also better. I dare say that the feedback from the consultants, the trainers, the contracting authorities and the tenderers has generally been positive. It has certainly been immeasurably more positive than the feedback to the National Audit Office that is controlled by the National Audit Office. This may be a more conflicting situation, but still. In this regard, we are getting better and the figures involved allow me to make a good assessment of this area. People are professional, relationships are open, but the volume of work is enormous. However, this is 9,000 purchases per year and does not reach everyone, just as the National Audit Office does not reach all of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U42	Please, Mr Lember, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U43	Finally, I would like to ask the following question. As far as I know, the Ministry of Finance is working on a new comprehensive public procurement law. I ask when this bill will come to the public and what the key changes will be.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U44	Key changes are based on amendments to the Directive. I wouldn't present them here right now, because the bill is still being prepared. But this bill is coming. There is no point in thinking that the end of history will come in this area. As long as this hall has worked here in the newer days, the subject of public procurement has always been an apple of contention. There have been enormous numbers of people who say that this law is rotten and doesn't work anywhere. It's been changed the other way and the other way, but it's still the same story. It is easier now, because there are currently directives that leave very little room for national legislation. But it has never been a bad law, even though we hear such a comment all the time. The reality is that many contracting authorities do very rarely or once in their lives and then think that someone else will be guilty if they fail to do so. The reality is also that public procurement is a place for the intertwining of extremely high economic interests, and disputes in themselves are a natural part of life when money is involved. This is also reflected in the rankings of those who argue a lot: those who have bigger money in the game are still arguing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U45	I would now like to ask the question registered on the ground from my colleague, Mr Karel Knight.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U46	Minister, thank you very much. Due to the recent audit by the National Audit Office, I have the following question for you. Does the State have any plan to do with companies that think that their activities are purely commercial and therefore do not have to comply with the requirements of the Public Procurement Act? The reason is that they do not act in the public interest, such as Eesti Loto, Teede Tehnokeskus, etc. The National Audit Office has made very clear recommendations to the Minister of Finance in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U47	Those are the rules. There's no need for a genre plan here. It is necessary to examine each individual case, to assess whether it is a public interest operator or an open competitive operator. And if the other side doesn't agree, he'll be punished. Last year there were nine victims of misdemeanour. There were localities, but there were other characters.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U48	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U49	The next question is Mr Tarmo Tammelt to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U50	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! A few weeks ago, the Riigikogu discussed the topic of rural elders. It turned out that seven country elders belonged to the IRL, seven Reform Party ranks, and the Hiiumaa governor was then unpartyd. You said before the Riigikogu that you feel that this person should belong to the Reform Party because he writes like a member of the Reform Party. And look at the miracle, he was taken to the Reform Party, and now all the county elders are partying. At the same time, the balance of the coalition went unbalanced: there are now eight rural elders from the Reform Party and seven from the IRL. Is that why the representatives of the IRL and the head of the PBA must now be in the IRL?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U51	Makes you sigh and wonder how a member of the Riigikogu might come up with such a course of thought. The specific answer is no. No one is prohibited from joining any political party. I'm surprised and surprised that a lot of people have joined the Central Party, but I respect their choice. Then let them be. But I don't understand that choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U52	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U53	Prime Minister! I ask you straight: does belonging to a power party give people an advantage today when it comes to a position or an investment?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U54	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U55	It does not confer any advantage, especially in the position you have mentioned, it is no advantage at all. What advantage can a party member have if the functions are related to the supervision of individual acts of a local authority or to the supervision of plans? After all, you yourself have been working in the municipality and you know what it is like to be able to influence the local government's activities, which consist in the functions of a rural governor at all. And I'm sure you can think on your own whether being part of a party gives him advantages or doesn't give him advantages. You know perfectly well that the times when the landowners shared public resources are long and irreversibly over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U56	Prime Minister! That's the thing. I can think with my own head. At the end of the year, 9,5 million euros were added unexpectedly to the state budget for the so-called 'roof money', and this was largely divided between the municipalities run by the IRL and the Reform Party. So how was this the so-called equal division?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U57	I don't share your judgment. I can't confirm your claim at all. On the contrary, we once analysed, for example, the use of money from the sale of Kyoto allowances in the light of your point of view, and we did not observe any form of party pattern anywhere. In general, all taxpayers' money is distributed on the basis of objective criteria and will probably remain so in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U58	I would like to ask you two questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U59	Prime Minister! First of all, the comment that you do not understand the people who belong to or enter the Centre Party. But your sister also belongs to the Centre Party, and if you don't understand her, it's quite complicated. But my question is about politicisation. Recently, the politicalisation of the IRL has quite taken off: Priit Kama wants to be the head of the PBGB, Margus Kurm is meant to be the head of the Defence Police Department and more and more talk is being made about Mart Laar becoming the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. Have you heard that? Is that true?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U60	Now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U61	Yeah, I've heard about that. I am not the person who should present the nomination of the Head of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, but I value Mart Laar and his services very highly in front of the Republic of Estonia. And if this is about me personally, I would support his election to this office.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U62	Prime Minister! A few days ago, I read in the paper that you also read that the County Elders of the Reform Party met with the Minister of Social Affairs and discussed the reform of the ambulance. I assume it was an official meeting, and there were some decisions made. You will probably share my understanding that the Estonian county elders are one whole and that they are shaping the state of life in their region. But is it now to be expected that the IRL County Elders will, for example, meet with the esteemed Minister for Economic Affairs to discuss the reduction of home expenses and follow up with various statements? How do you assess such a uniform? Is this how it's gonna be in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U63	In Estonia, freedom of association is a constitutional freedom and all people can meet whoever they like. I cannot imagine that a ministerial meeting, for example, with the heads of the country, could have some binding consequences. The legal consequences are what the legislators decide in this Chamber, one informative meeting cannot have such consequences.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U64	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U65	The next question is from my colleague, Jaan Õunapuu, to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U66	Good manager! Dear Minister, It is not known to anyone that Estonian Air makes more than EUR 2 million in losses each month. In 2011 and 2012, the government allocated a total of EUR 30 million to implement the company's new strategy. At the moment, we know that this scheme has essentially failed. At the end of last year, the government decided to grant a loan of EUR 8.3 million. We are now waiting for the European Commission's decision on the admissibility or non-acceptability of State aid. The original deadline was 22 February. That deadline's over. Mr Minister, please tell us what the actual state of play is when applying for a state aid permit today, 27 February 2013. Is now the time for us to go into deep conflict with the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U67	No, absolutely not! The current situation is that the government has applied for a State aid authorisation in view of a rescue aid loan of EUR 8,3 million. An application for restructuring aid shall be prepared. When it is ready, it will be submitted to the European Commission. There is probably still a need to support the company in one way or another, because we have to consider that the procedure for applying for State aid is quite lengthy. It is not a question of months, it may be longer, but the company must be able to implement its substantive restructuring plan. Substantive restructuring requires additional resources either in the form of loans or core capital. These decisions can be commented upon once they have been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U68	Please, Mr Õunapuu, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U69	I dare say that the public has the impression that mistakes are not recognised, criticism is not tolerated, honest answers are sidelined and, worst of all, no one is responsible. The previous chairman of the board walked amusingly across the Gulf of Finland, the board members simply being replaced, and that is where the matter will remain. After the strike threat, the airmen were found to be the only major culprits that sounded very clear. I have to admit, in the truth, that the current chairman of the board and also the chairman of the board have done much better in their work. Mr Parts, you had to submit a restructuring plan last week. Why wasn't this done, and when can the government decide how to proceed with Estonian Air?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U70	I'd like to comment on that introductory line. You said no honest answers. I gave a perfectly honest answer to your first question. As regards the restructuring plan, it can be said that the company has a substantive restructuring plan. It is clear that the restructuring plan, which must be submitted to the European Commission, must contain much more extensive information than one of the usual corporate restructuring plans. This is what the company is working on, preparing. It's gonna take some time. Given that this restructuring plan is the basis for the decision of the European Commission, it is in our interest that it is of maximum quality. I don't see any reason to rush here. This reference to a date is likely to be one or the other date proposed by the press. I can say that the company has time to prepare its restructuring plan well with the application for State aid authorisation. It may take weeks for me, but it has to be done well. Substantive restructuring has been ongoing for six months. Such restructuring requires a large number of negotiations, talks with company partners, creditors and creditors. That's a job, too. But while you have already asked about this company, I believe that the central issue is not so much the government or shareholders at all, but whether the company is able to operate sustainably for a long time. And it's in a lot of company hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U71	Please, Mr Õunapuu, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U72	As far as your honest answer is concerned, I did not, in fact, deny it on my previous question. I told the public that there was a certain impression. I also understand very perfectly that there are difficult times in aviation, especially for small companies located on the margins of Europe. All the more reason we all need to think this through. I really hope the people who bought the ticket don't have to worry about their flight. At the same time, the company's twitching at the acquisition of the fleet is becoming an anecdote. The current chairman of the board has very well said that Estonian Air has a lot of historic baggage to get rid of. Minister, you probably know that according to the State Assets Act, state property managers are obliged to manage property in a purposeful, rational, sustainable and prudent manner. Given what happened in Estonian Air, can you assure the Estonian people that you have respected these principles in your activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U73	I think so! I really believe that. But as for your comment on the fleet, the company's business task since 2007 was to change the fleet. At that time, the State was still a small shareholder, and SAS and SAS went out on certain types of aircraft. I think that is where one of the main causes of the company's current difficulties lies. We can condemn subsequent decisions by both the board of directors and the board of directors, we can criticise them and that is what has been done. Criticism is likely to be largely correct, but these decisions are still made with a view to improving the competitiveness of the company in a situation where capital investments are very high in relation to the size of the company, as the fleet has needed change. Of course, as a representative of the general meeting, I too ask a lot of questions and ask as to why one step or another was taken. However, we have to take into account that it is still a company, and from that point of view, I also have no reason to say today that any board of directors has acted badly in any way. What is the interest of the state? The interest of the state is, of course, that this company is well managed and is able to meet Estonia's needs in terms of air connections very easy. That's our interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U74	I would like to ask you two questions registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague Rainer Vakra.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U75	Minister, thank you very much. Estonian Air has been granted a loan of EUR 8.3 million by the State on the basis of the point that it must develop entrepreneurship or create conditions for doing so. At the moment, it seems that this money is patching up losses caused by wrong strategic decisions and weak management. The budget line for this loan is the Property Reform Reserve Fund and the interest rate on the loan is set at 15% per year. Estonian Air is obliged to pay the entire loan by 30 June 2013 at the latest. I therefore have the question: why has the loan been granted from the property reform reserve fund and are you sure that Estonian Air will be able to repay this money by 30 June 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U76	This is in line with the general objectives of the Property Reform Reserve Fund, and look at the objectives of this Reserve Fund, why these funds are allocated to the government. That's one. Secondly, we want this loan to be repaid. Thirdly, as far as the deadline is concerned, it relates in some ways to Mr Apple Tree's question. We must make earlier decisions in the same way, either for the use of additional loan capital or for the use of core capital, in order to support the restructuring activities being carried out. I believe that the government will be discussing this matter in the near future. We certainly have to consider that Estonian Air is currently conducting a process for which a number of news is expected, and perhaps as an observer, without knowing the company's business data, it is easy to give all kinds of misinterpretations. However, I can assure both the company and the government that, of course, we have a very clear interest in restructuring this company and doing so in accordance with the rules of the European aviation market. At the same time, it must be admitted that these rules are not quite such as to take into account the characteristics of Estonia's small market. But these rules apply and we must carry out this process in cooperation with the European Commission. There are precedents for this in a similar sector and in other sectors, so there is no reason to say that this is not a prospective project. However, the key issue is that the company must be able to achieve long-term financial sustainability. Can anyone stand up in this Chamber right now and say that I know how to do this in a five-year perspective, given what is happening in the European aviation market? I don't think there's a person like that. However, I think it is still possible to create a vision plan that can be considered realistic and credible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U77	Now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U78	Good minister! This, of course, sounds great, the Estonian Air fleet. As far as I know, there are four Bombardiers and three Embraers in service right now, unless I'm wrong in the numbers, and I'm not counting them. Plus, there's another Boeing standing on the field and not going anywhere because according to Jan Palmer, leader of Estonain Air, it's cheaper to pay a lease than to keep a machine on the flight. Is it really possible for such a large fleet to meet any safety requirements? Isn't that dangerous for passengers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U79	Aviation safety requirements are an issue for every airline that is not compromised at all. There are rules for this: supervision is both internal and national supervision. I assure you, I have no information to question aviation safety in one way or another. That's out of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U80	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U81	The next question is for Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance, my colleague Ester Tuiksole. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U82	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, The excise duty on specially labelled fuel used in agriculture is perhaps five times higher than is required in the European Union. In May 2011, you were present here in the Riigikogu and said that a new system for the use of specially labelled fuel will be ready soon, in 2012, actually. So far, it has not been completed, and the Minister for Agriculture will provide evasive answers to my questions. Please tell me how far it is to develop this system! Is there a plan to change the rate of excise duty or to combine compensation with another system? Which way are you going?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U83	The Minister for Agriculture has no reason to give evasive answers, and I hope he will not. In essence, he has said that he does not want to change this system. It's too complicated. This has also been discussed by the Cabinet and has taken note of its position. This was a planned reform of his administration. Personally, I regard specially labelled fuel as a method of support as wrong, even unethical. In my opinion, this should be abandoned in all areas. No one can be supported according to how much he can heat the atmosphere and destroy an unrecoverable resource. It's a matter of principle for me. I would continue to deal with this issue, but it is difficult for me to be familiar with the details of agriculture.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U84	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U85	I thank the Minister for his personal opinion. That's what you've said before. Unfortunately, this is the system, also in other countries of the European Union. The opposition has wanted to come to your aid from time to time and has proposed how to change the special-marked fuel usage system. This winter too, the use of specially labelled fuel makes it difficult to push snow in machines, because no one deliberately wants to break the law. Don't you think we should change the system? There could be extraordinarily snowy days. What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U86	In my opinion, the opposition has not contributed to anything here. Rather, he has mastered the problem. The inevitable consequence of all such exemptions is border cases which seem unfair and lead to such teasing new proposals. Serious concerns about the violation of excise law by pushing snow do not exist in itself. If there is an exemption, some inconveniences must always be taken into account in border cases. The tax office itself does not bully such cases, but the taxpayer has to comply with the law if he wants to get a discount.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U87	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U88	Minister, did I understand correctly that the system of using specially labelled fuel will disappear for Estonian farmers in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U89	I told you it wouldn't go away. The Minister of Agriculture takes a different view. I've also heard that he gives evasive answers, and that in itself bothers me. The reference to me also bothers me, because it is his domain. Our position is and the government has agreed that this system will change, but there may be technical difficulties. I'm not sure you can't do that yet. When I meet farmers, I have heard a clear view that they would like to change the system. I am not familiar with the last thing in this area so that I know where this setback actually comes from. Farmers should not be supported by the more they use machines. All the more so, the use of any advantage will not only result in border cases but also in tax losses in other areas. A person watches how you can get cheaper, that's natural. I don't blame individuals, but there's a statistical consequence.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U90	And now two questions registered on the spot. Please, Mr Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U91	Good minister! It is surprising to hear here that this system is not recommended to be changed and that specially labelled fuel will cease to be used and that there will be some kind of quota system. When in this Chamber in 2011, we changed the Specially Marked Fuel Act by removing forest owners from the scope of this law, by stating that forest owners must not use blue fuel for forest processing, we knew that the system applicable to farmers would be changed immediately. Very many landowners today, farmers and other farmers, both in the forest and in the field, carry the same tractor on the same day. Agricultural work is being done in the morning, forest work is being done in the evening, and fuel changes in tanks are very cumbersome. What do you say to those people who carry the same tractor in the fields and in the woods?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U92	I'll tell them again, if you want a discount, be prepared for any inconvenience. But in favour of changing the system, I vote with two hands. Since this distinction in forestry and in a few other areas was abolished, it was the right decision. I am not delighted by the current agricultural upheaval. In no area should the amount of fossil fuel burning be the basis for the aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U93	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U94	Good minister! The share of excise duties in the state budget is quite high: over 400 million euros. This is about 8% of the budget. Today, a large group of people at the Technical University discusses the state of our roads, and there came such a message that too little money will be given from the state budget, the amount of excise duty collected, to repair roads. Do you consider this criticism correct and think that more money should be given to road construction than the amount of excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U95	The amount of excise duty would be 70 million more if we could really fix the system and evenly tax fossil fuel. But with this group discussion, what school was it again? I'm not familiar. However, if someone says that road maintenance is not granted the amount prescribed by law, that is not true. Whether too much is given or too little is always a very subjective assessment. All areas can exhibit themselves like this. A few years ago, we had a former Head of the Road Administration, and I was just amazed at how he proved, at the beginning of the crisis, what standards can be imposed on society in terms of road repair. Everything is done according to abilities, experts and finance people appreciate what is possible. We do not have such a burning problem that huge resources should be directed there. Roads are a very expensive area, and often there is a problem with the rational use of money. I am pleased to hear that the new Head of the Road Administration has taken a new stance in this respect, that he is putting the emphasis on optimism instead of mega-projects.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U96	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, our Question Time is running out. Many thanks to the members of the Riigikogu for asking questions! Thank you very much to the Prime Minister and other members of the government for their reply. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U97	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 6th working week session of the 5th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Now, ladies and gentlemen, there is an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, Mr Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U98	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! I will hand over the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. In the Riigikogu, the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Erki Nool, will represent the Committee on the Environment in its proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U99	Thank you. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U100	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the 15 members of the Central Party Group, I will refer an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. The inquiry concerns a reduction in home expenses. On 16 May 2011, the Government Coalition initiated a draft law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax in the Riigikogu. This draft is probably the first draft in the history of the Riigikogu, in which the Commission had to correct errors in the title of the draft between two readings. The President of the Republic, Toomas Hendrik Ilves, found in his speech on Independence Day that the Act on the Exemption of Homeland and Control of Monopolys was not the kind of initiative that would bring us closer to the most important decisions. The tax exemption for the land under the house was Mr. Parts and his party's main election promise. This year, for the first time, we see the consequences of this law and, unfortunately, they have not been happy for many people. Thus, on economic portal E24, a resident of Saue says that his land tax has risen by 381%. The city of Saue is dominated by the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and the electoral union 'Convincing the future', who raised the land tax rate to 2.5% over the previous year. We have a question to make in this regard, where there are four questions to which we expect answers from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U101	Thank you. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U102	Ladies and gentlemen, I have two questions to make. The first is the reform of the ambulance and the future of the ambulance service. At the beginning of this year, a goodwill agreement was signed which defines, inter alia, the activities for the organisation of the emergency response network, taking into account the development plan for the emergency response service 2007-2013. The agreement includes that the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Health Board and the Estonian Ambulance Association will agree and submit for approval to all parties by 1 May of this year at the latest the availability and quality standards of the ambulance service, the number of ambulance crews and the regional location, based on the location of the active care hospitals, the composition, qualifications and equipment of the ambulance crew. Despite the agreement, the reform of the ambulance was launched earlier, resulting in a high level of dissatisfaction among rural elders, local government leaders and people living in the reform area. The main cause of dissatisfaction is the lack of involvement of the parties involved by the Health Board and the transfer of scarce information to both local and local authorities. Unsatisfied with the signature of 3066 Lake Americans calling for the suspension of the ambulance reform, as they consider it to destroy the territorial, regional and health integrity of the county. The Ministry of the Interior has also accused the Ministry of Social Affairs of a lack of involvement. On this subject, we will put six questions to Minister Kõivas. The second question is to the Minister of Culture, Rein Lang, and it concerns the introduction of folk tradition. This is not quite a new question, and the President of the Riigikogu sent the same question back to the performers of Ene Ergma yesterday, indicating that the celebration of the folk calendar is not under the administration of the Ministry of Culture. At the same time, our constitution also talks about folk culture and the anniversary of the folk calendar. If even the Constitution is not for the Minister to comply and the speaker finds it, it is regrettable. We have made the inquiry somewhat broader and will re-present it to the Minister of Culture. I do not think that this practice, in which the Speaker of Parliament is preventing the opposition from discussing with ministers, is certainly acceptable. But on 21 March, if we choose a spy, we can draw attention to this issue and shape our position accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U103	Oh, thank you so much! The Speaker has that right. Please read the Speaker's rights. I now announce that I have adopted one draft decision and three inquiries. If the draft decision complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the Riigikogu Board will decide on this procedure within three working days, and if the enquiries comply with this law, it will be called the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, then I will forward them to the addressee immediately, and if they do not reply, I will return them. Forward messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a Draft Act on ratification of the Paris Protocol between the Supreme Headquarters of the Republic of Estonia and NATO's European Forces and the Headquarters of the Supreme Commander for NATO Development, initiated on 25 February, Lead Committee on National Defence; second, in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Paris Protocol between the Supreme Headquarters of the Republic of Estonia and NATO's European Forces, initiated on 25 February, concerning the ratification of the Supplementary Agreement between the Supreme Commander of NATO Development Headquarters and the State Defence Commission; thirdly, in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Commercial Maritime Act and the Port Act, initiated on 25 February, the Committee on Economic Affairs. I have forwarded the inquiry of the Riigikogu member Mikhail Stalnukhin to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher and returned the inquiry No 299 to the performers. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13. One item on the agenda: in the framework of today's agenda item No 9, the first reading of the draft law amending the External Action Service Act and the Civil Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, Hanno Pevkur, the Minister of Justice will make a presentation on behalf of the initiator of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U104	Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, we were in the middle of a discussion at first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. I ask Kadri Simson, a member of the Riigikogu, as the representative of the initiators of the speech chair, to continue to ask questions to the rapporteur. The first question was Aivar Riisalult, but he's not here. Please, Mr Sõerd, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U105	Good waitress! I have a question about the sources of cover that you have prepared better for this draft than in previous cases. You refer in the explanatory memorandum that a business ban and/or a business ban should be extended to reduce the tax gap so that they also apply to economic crimes. Could you briefly explain to us how the implementation of a business or business ban will make it possible to reduce or recover the tax debt that, according to your information, currently amounts to EUR 351 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U106	This is one of the measures proposed by the Tax and Customs Board. One of the tasks of the Tax and Customs Board is known to be collecting existing taxes already in force. But he can't collect them all because there are many ways to evade taxes. One of these methods is the practice of companies to declare all taxes incurred honestly but not to pay them. They deliberately declare a company bankrupt, create a new company and repeat this scheme: all taxes are declared but not paid. According to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, this is a scheme used by about a thousand entrepreneurs, which has already caused 144 million euros of damage in the form of unpaid taxes to Estonia. The most appropriate way to avoid this scheme is for the state to understand that this might happen to the company in the first bankruptcy, but if it becomes a pattern, something will be done. According to the Tax and Customs Board, the prevention of such cases would help to improve the collection of taxes. Since there are four times as many people in the Riigikogu Hall today as there were yesterday, I will return to the subject of the cover of this draft. We are now in a situation where electricity excise duty is not recommended to be reduced because it costs the state budget a great deal. Aivar Sõerd was in some ways correct. He said that the representative of the Ministry of Finance also stated in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the sources of cover offered by the Centre Party to reduce electricity excise duty by 4.5 times are well presented and real. For not all drafts, sources of revenue are not always so correctly identified. Mostly, these are government-led drafts, which show that money goes out of the state budget, but it has not been shown where the required amount comes in. I repeat, we've had these laws here in a row. One draft, in which all the MPs in the halls of the IRL and Reform Party voted in favour, was the law amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts homeowners from land tax initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. And you know what it said? It stated that the implementation of the Act did not involve direct State budget expenditure or revenue. The land tax was collected in 2010 at EEK 802 million, or EUR 51 million, including land tax of EUR 26.7 million. The impact of the amendment of the law on local budgets is estimated by the Ministry of Finance at EUR 17 million, which is covered by state budget resources. Where these state budget resources come from, you weren't worried. I am not talking about a 1% reduction in the income tax that was mentioned yesterday, which meant that it would cost EUR 70 million, including a reduction of EUR 57 million in personal income tax and EUR 13 million in corporate tax. Where the money came from, they didn't say. The IRL and Reform Party voted in favour of the law without a source of cover because it came from the government. Today, the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act will be on the agenda. One thing came out of the Committee on Monetary Affairs by accident. In particular, Jürgen Ligi sent us his calculations of the reduction of electricity excise duty in the draft currently under discussion, which showed a much higher cost than the calculations of the Centre Party. The Ministry of Finance then made new adjustments and deliberately made a mistake of EUR 5 million, showing that the reduction of excise duty was more costly. It was said that the reduction in excise duty leaves more money in the hands of people, and VAT is known to be added to the higher excise duty. It was therefore calculated that if the electricity excise tax is EUR 32 million per year and we do not completely lose the electricity excise duty, but reduce it from EUR 4,47 to EUR 1, then it is as if VAT is also not collected. Today we are discussing the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act, according to which the share of renewable energy will be reduced and the VAT will also be lost, but the draft explanatory memorandum states that no direct costs are foreseen for the state budget for the implementation of the law. So a very two-faced approach. Even if the Group of the Centre Party has made a draft law in accordance with all the rules and with specific sources of cover, we are still accused of not liking the source and the money that comes from the tax increase is being used somewhere else. However, if a bill comes before the Riigikogu, where the sources of cover are non-existent or forgotten at all, that the law entails costs, then for some reason the principle that Andrus Ansip has expressed is based on: you must not ask your own. The vote is dullly in favour, although the bill does not actually comply with the rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U107	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U108	Dear waitress, From time to time, it is first and foremost the coalition that we are fighting here for a few cents. To what it is needed and to what extent it concerns only private consumers. But the reduction of the excise duty, am I really on the right track if I say so? After all, small businesses are also concerned; local governments, kindergartens, schools, where every cent is very important. In this case, the cost of electricity is certainly higher than that of one owner of the dwelling and also the gain by that amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U109	Thank you for your question. Indeed, a reduction in excise duty would, on the one hand, reduce domestic costs, but, on the other hand, the increase in electricity prices has also hit local authorities, which are known to run out of VAT on their electricity bill. Municipalities cannot deduct VAT, including schools and children's institutions, with VAT added on the excise duty. On the other hand, companies that pay more for electricity will not pay for it themselves, but more expensive electricity will simply increase the cost of living for everyone. The most expensive electricity means that this year, too, we are at the forefront of price increases in the euro zone. And in the end, the people will pay for all its more expensive goods and services. So reducing electricity excise duties would reduce household costs to some extent, but it would also help to curb the overall increase in prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U110	Please, Mr Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U111	Good waitress! I'm going to continue the question of the pre-questioner a little bit more broadly. Looking at your group's recent tax policy proposals, I feel strongly that you want to lower taxes on consumption and raise taxes on labour. I am referring mainly to your plan to introduce progressive income tax. So here's my question to you. What's that all about? We have to take something as a basis. If we base Estonia's average wage, I would argue that by increasing income tax proportionally, you will take much more money away from people than they would gain by, for example, lowering this excise duty. Why is your policy that way?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U112	That's not true. By reducing home costs, we will reduce the burden on households with lower incomes in particular. In recent years, VAT and excise duties have been significantly increased, hitting people whose total income is used to cover daily expenses. In Estonia, we need to heat the room, it is not a luxury, and we need to eat everything. High-wage earners in particular will benefit from a 1% reduction in income tax. It is this old, well-known calculation that a person with a monthly salary of EUR 3000 wins 22 times more than a person earning a minimum wage. The increase in indirect taxes must also be paid by pensioners who do not benefit from the tax reduction, as well as by people who do not have a job, and also by families with children. We are simply trying to alleviate the tax burden imposed on people on low and middle incomes by reducing indirect taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U113	Please, Mr Tõnis Palts!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U114	Dear waitress, First of all, I'm impressed by your fight against price increases. Secondly, I would like to try to explain to myself what your arguments are based on. You and your colleagues in this Chamber have repeatedly declared that the additional amounts of excise duty are going to be fixed in budget holes. Can you tell me where this is coming from, is it in the state budget law somewhere? The second question: can you say which budget holes will be covered by these amounts in 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U115	Dear Tõnis Palts! I would like to start by saying that the enthusiasm you have expressed shows that you at least listen and think along. It's in the line you're sitting in, a pretty rare ability, and I'm really excited that you're impressed. As regards the humiliation of the electric excise duty, I repeat the issue that was discussed yesterday. The electricity bill for Estonian consumers consists of five osess. The first is the basic tariff fee, the second is the network charges, the third is the renewable energy charge, the fourth is the excise duty and all of it is subject to VAT. Due to the opening-up of the electricity market, households and small and medium-sized enterprises have received significantly higher electricity bills. These considerably larger electricity bills have been subject to significantly higher VAT. Estonia's state budget is surprisingly completed thanks to January's electricity bills, with roughly 10% higher value added tax. I would dare add 'if planned' at the end of the previous sentence, because until the last moment, the Minister for Economic Affairs stated that the open market would not have to lead to price increases. So the increase in electricity prices has won the state budget. Now the issue of excise duty. In the European Union, excise duty is added to the price of electricity and it is the norm that it should be at least EUR 1 per megawatt-hour. In Estonia it is 4.47 euros per megawatt-hour and higher in Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Austria, Finland and Sweden. We know that all six countries are far more prosperous than we are. The remaining 20 countries of the European Union are implementing a lower level of electricity excise duty than our own. Where does that electric excise money go? There is no exact price sign on it, but it is certain that, by lowering the electricity excise duty, we would be able to reduce the price increase and the increase in electricity bills, now I quote at least 3.6% of the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U116	Please, Mr Palts, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U117	Dear waitress, I'm impressed with your party mates who are always able to ask. But answer specifically: can you answer with one sentence what budget holes are?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U118	I see that yesterday it was news that the Estonian state budget is almost in balance. As long as he's not quite balanced, he's in trouble. And so far, the flag letter of our government is the principle that coping with people is not a priority, the appearance of the budget on paper is a priority. If you do, you will also read the specific answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U119	Please, Mr Sven Sester, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U120	Good waitress! I have to admit, unlike the questioner, I'm not impressed at all. Listening to you, I've been hit by the idea many times that I don't know what you're talking about. Or if I understand what you're saying, I don't understand why you're going down this particular road. Hence my question, which we touched on to some extent in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Isn't this such a two-faced problem on your side at this point? Why do I ask that? Indeed, you have come up with some drafts where you say that we should do so or we should do so, because otherwise this omission will affect everyone. I would point out, for example, that a 1% reduction in income tax affects everyone. At the moment, you're saying that if the electricity excise is reduced to 1 euro, it affects everyone. I ask if you would still like to support those who are actually affected. I mean, right now, I think it's about everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U121	A 1% reduction in income tax is the subject of another draft. Here's the choice. If the state says that it has EUR 70 million over and it is intended to be left in the hands of people, the minimum wage earner will receive EUR 19 per year if the income tax is reduced by 1%, for example, EUR 400 for people earning EUR 3000 per year. This result is unequally distributed. If this money is over, the Centre Party has drawn up another draft, which I am not defending here today, but which would raise the income tax-free minimum and leave 88 euros a year in the hands of all those who work and, in addition, help pensioners who have now discovered themselves in a situation in which their pension growth goes under income tax. Now for the electricity. The increase in electricity prices in companies affects us all in terms of higher prices. After all, the news that last year's real pension decreased is that pensions in Estonia have decreased. It was just that life was more expensive than the increase in pension. The increase in home costs and the increase in the cost of food and other essential goods have led to a reduction in real pensions. I also rely on the need to lower the electrical excise duty by proving the need for authority. Eesti Pank said last year that if there is no significant increase in the price of electricity, this will worsen our economic environment and the ability to create jobs. The fact that the excise duty is so high at EUR 4.47 per megawatt-hour has raised many questions since it was introduced in 2008. At the time, today's Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, in front of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, was in trouble with the answer to why it was so high. Large companies, as we know, have even eight times higher than the EU minimum. He then said that the calculations weren't behind it, and it might need to be changed. It's been five years! Nothing has been done. But the business environment affected by energy prices is precisely in the hands of Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U122	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U123	Good waitress! My electricity bill was 35% higher than last year, although my long-time partner, Eesti Energia, personally contacted me and said that you are our good customer and we will make you the best offer. I didn't start analyzing the other offers. But that's not the point. What do I want to ask you? I want to ask you, do you not think that this behaviour with me and all this counting of cents and the taunting tone is actually an example of the fact that on the side of the government coalition, the principle that if a situation is radically changing is forgotten is that dialogue is needed. Perhaps such a situation will benefit them so that Valdo Randpere will eventually become mayor of Tallinn or Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia? Don't you think it would take much more dialogue than it is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U124	I'm sure it would be! However, I would like to say that the euro comes together from cents, and for some households, even small savings are very important. On the other hand, I believe that lowering the electric excise duty cannot be the only solution. I'll give you a simple comparison. Today, five items on the agenda will be discussed later on about the reduction of renewable energy charges, which is known to have a double impact than the possible reduction of electricity excise duties. In this respect, an appropriate table is attached to the draft explanatory memorandum. But these two measures together would already have a pretty good effect. So the logic is that families would gain only EUR 15 a year from the reduction of electricity excise duty, which is too little, and instead we approve the reduction of the renewable energy fee, which is half the amount won, but it still seems to be large enough, is somehow the logic of the curve. Today we have the opportunity to reduce electricity bills by cutting excise duty from 1 July.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U125	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U126	Dear waitress, There is a lot of talk here about the sources of cover. Is it not appropriate that the Estonian state wins a tenth of the revenue from the increase in electricity prices to the budget this year? Did the state plan to increase its budget revenue by one tenth because of the increase in electricity prices?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U127	All this talk about the source of cover is actually a squirm. When we first introduced the draft in 2011, the lower electricity excise duty had to take effect from 2013 and no one could plan this additional revenue from the price increase into the budget. But while you were asking about the sources of cover, last year we already showed that, thanks to the increase in the price of VAT, there will be more VAT, but that was not a good enough reference. I would like to draw your attention to the various methods used by the Ministry of Finance to calculate the impact of the draft government bill and to calculate the impact of the draft opposition party bill. And that's actually a pretty weird problem, because we've assumed that ministry officials should be apolitical experts. I'm afraid they're not. We will table the draft which we are currently debating and the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act to be dealt with under the fourth item on the agenda. The Centre Party's draft would reduce electricity excise duty by 4.5 times, reducing electricity bills and VAT. The Ministry of Finance made the calculation as if VAT would be reduced by 100%, i.e. by everyone who pays electricity bills, and the cost of our draft increased by EUR 5 million. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act states that there is no cost to the state budget. When we asked how, after all, people would pay less renewable energy fees and no higher VAT would be added, it turned out that the Ministry of Finance had not thought about it. And when they did the calculation, what could be the foreseeable cost, it was said that, in order for this impact to be as great as it is advertised, renewable energy should first be charged twice as high as it is now by 2020. If this double increase is to be avoided, people will have to win a total of EUR 300 million over the next seven years. If VAT had now been calculated on this basis using the same formula as the Centre Party draft, it would have been said that the impact of VAT would be 60 million. But no! It was said that renewable energy charges are paid by all consumers, i.e. businesses as well as private consumers and the government sector, and, in general terms, the first can be deducted from VAT, while the other two cannot. Thus, only the part consumed by households and the general government is subject to VAT. According to Statistics Estonia, household consumption accounted for 27% of total electricity consumption, while for the general government, we estimate 10.6% on the basis of consumption data. So we assume that only 37,6% of VAT will be lost. So when we were calculated at 100%, the impact of the general government was reduced to one third. Plus the fact that this bill was put on the table, it was claimed that there were no costs at all. I think this is a very thoughtful fact, and some of the representatives of the government departments who will come next time to defend some bill and say that there is no cost involved should be quite embarrassing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U128	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U129	Honourable waitress! You spoke more about people in your answers, about the business sector, but I want to ask you about the municipal sector. The municipal sector is also the end-user; it will have more of these costs, but nothing will be done to compensate for them. Please tell me if it has also taken into account how many municipalities would benefit from their infrastructure, such as kindergartens, schools, social and cultural institutions!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U130	Please, Mr Lokk-Tramberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U131	No such calculation has been made, but they would win as much as domestic consumers. They would win so much that their electricity bills would be 3.6% lower.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U132	Good waitress! Here's the question. Listening to your speech, I have realised that you are terribly upset or worried that the budget is being balanced and balanced at the cost of suffering one person or another. Of course, in a human way, it's kind of bad. However, in Europe, there is currently a very strict fiscal policy in all countries, costs are collapsed and very many are much worse than we are. Is your proposal, then, that we should let go of our budgetary policy and, in principle, not bear in mind whether the budget is balanced or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U133	Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U134	This question takes us out of the context of this draft because it does not undermine the budgetary balance. The draft is covered by a source of cover, by means of a more efficient collection of existing taxes, for which the tax administration is capable. People's electricity bills would be smaller, no taxes would be raised, simply the taxes imposed would be collected more effectively. Broadly speaking, I think that, on a fiscal scale, we have put an unfairly high tax burden on people on low and middle incomes, while we are giving tax gifts to the wealthiest.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U135	Good waitress! I think the idea of this draft is very good. As you said before, the electric bill consists of five components. Three of them are taxes, one of which you want to reduce, one is dependent on the free market, so not at all on us, but one is a component whose reduction would not reduce public revenues, but perhaps the investment opportunities of one company. Have you not thought that it might not make sense to try to reduce taxes because this money supports one, the other or the third, but rather to look at what the network fee consists of? Actually, you're gonna have to shake the ashes on your head. Because all these wishes we have decided right here in the Riigikogu what we want Elering to do in the coming years. Perhaps this is a topic that you could sit all the parties together to discuss and wonder if it is possible to save there?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U136	Indeed, I fully agree that the largest part of our electricity bills are Elering's network charges. Elering was allowed to increase network charges by 13% when it went over to the open market and the price increase was known, which is not a small increase. I think there is a reason to look at the Competition Authority, which coordinates the price increases, not only in terms of network charges, but also, for example, in terms of the margin of the general service of Eesti Energia, which is currently under the control of the Competition Authority. Lowering the electricity excise duty to the minimum allowed in the European Union is certainly not all we can do to reduce electricity bills, but this is the first step that we do not need a European Union permit, as we need a reduction in the renewable energy charge. This is a step that we do not just have to look demandingly at the Minister for Economic Affairs, asking what is going on in his administration, but we can do something ourselves. Network fees and dividends taken out of Eesti Energia are not directly within our reach; they are within our reach as much as we can exercise political supervision over the Minister of Economic Affairs. But it is up to us to decide how much electricity excise duty has been imposed in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U137	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Simson. Now I would like to ask Mr Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to be the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U138	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed a draft in 339 s. a February 18th. At the meeting of the Commission, the initiator's representative, Kadri Simson, presented the draft. The aim of the draft is to reduce the excise duty on electricity from 1 July 2013 to the minimum rate of EUR 1 per megawatt-hour established by the European Union. The desire is to ease the transition to a fully open electricity market system. Marek Uusküla, the representative of the Ministry of Finance, also participated in the discussion and the Commission received a letter from the Government in which the Government of the Republic did not support the draft. If you will allow me, I will briefly give an overview of the issues and issues dealt with by the Commission. The representative of the Ministry of Finance, Marek Uusküla, explained the position of the government in such a way that it is not right to reduce the price increase by reducing the rate of excise duty on electricity, as the price increase is not related to taxation. The excise duty is also intended not only to increase revenue from the state budget, but also to direct the producer and consumer towards more efficient and sustainable consumption. Marek Uusküla also pointed out that the draft explanatory memorandum did not take into account the reduction in the renewable energy fee. He also submitted calculations by the Ministry of Finance on this draft. This year, excise duty and VAT would be less than EUR 15 million and next year EUR 32 million less, electricity bills would be reduced by 3.6%, the impact on the consumer price index would be 0.13% and the average family electricity bill would be reduced by 0.84 euros per month under the draft. The Commission had a debate on the sources of cover and their reality. A representative of the Ministry of Finance said that work on these measures, which have been proposed in the draft explanatory memorandum for better collection of taxes, is actually ongoing. I know that these measures have been plucked from a report by the Tax and Customs Board at the end of last year and not all of them from the Tax Conference of the Tax Union, but three basic measures have been plucked from there. Yes, the representative of the Ministry of Finance confirmed that work on these measures is ongoing. There was a question of how these sources of coverage were expected to generate additional revenue. It was also said that the draft renewable energy charges are pending in the Committee on Economic Affairs and are in the process of doing so. One Member of the Commission asked how excise duty is linked to the increase in production efficiency. The answer was that if there is a higher excise duty, it can be saved by increasing the efficiency of production. The question was whether the draft would have a greater impact on businesses or on domestic consumers, which is the proportion. The overall proportion is that households account for 1/3 and small and medium enterprises for 2/3. The initiator's own question was how the margin of the general service of Eesti Energia has been calculated. It sounded like we should check it out. The initiator of the bill asked whether all household customers or only those who have problems with their livelihood should have their electricity excise duty reduced. Should this whole change not be needs-based and perhaps a separate compensation mechanism should be developed? One Member of the Commission also asked whether a differentiated excise duty would be conceivable in any way. In reply, the representative of the Ministry explained that it was technically very difficult to carry out. Later, a written reply was received from the Ministry of Finance to a question raised by the Commission. The initiator of the draft law asked how much VAT would be reduced in the state budget in 2013 due to the reduction of the renewable energy fee. The Ministry replied that a reduction in renewable energy charges would reduce the revenue from VAT in 2013 to 2020 by a total of EUR 22.6 million, i.e. EUR 2.8 million per year. This is the summary of the Commission's discussions. The Commission decided to place the draft on the agenda on 26 February 2013, which had previously appointed me rapporteur, and the Commission also decided to reject the draft at first reading. It was supported by six and five members of the Commission, with no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U139	Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U140	Dear waitress, Maybe I'm a fool, but I don't understand how the size of the excise duty and the excise duty will force the producer to make savings at all. I understand that if the producer paid the excise duty itself, but the excise duty was paid by the consumer. The producer, the company that produces this particular value, is actually independent of the level of excise duty of either 100%, 200% or 1%. If it is specifically written to the consumer on the bill that the excise duty is so and so much, how does it make savings? I just don't get it!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U141	I think that perhaps the Ministry of Finance stressed that excise duty has an environmental and productive efficiency aspect in addition to budget receipts. This was to be emphasised. At the same time, I do not think that this is the most important thing to emphasise in the current situation where electricity has increased quite significantly. Whether this is something that needs to be emphasised is the question of 'choices'. But really, this aspect of the ministry letter was noted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U142	Please, Mr Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U143	Good waitress! The price of electricity, whether we want it or not, has come very close to the limit of social tolerance. One of the parties to the price of electricity is the Soviet company Eesti Energia, and the comrades there are welding the price into what comes to mind. Here's a question. You mentioned it, and we've talked about it among ourselves, that the only one who can put a stop to these Soviet activists is the Competition Authority. The Competition Authority, however, is subject to the same minister, who is subject to Eesti Energia. I know there are very good people in the Competition Authority, but do they dare say anything to Eesti Energia at all? They're responsible for the same minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U144	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U145	Dear colleague, this is not a matter directly related to this draft, but it can be discussed in the context of some other drafts whether the Competition Authority must necessarily be within the remit of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. In principle, other options are possible; this office may be in the hands of the Ministry of Finance. This is the subject of the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U146	Honourable waitress! There's been an attempt to make this bill a joke. It is said that Estonian families would not find it much easier if the excise duty was reduced by the large amount of the monthly electricity bill. Juhan Parts has promised, with its draft reduction in renewable energy charges, that, as magically, everyone's electricity bills will decrease. Today I tried to find out from Juhan Parts how much the monthly electricity bill would decrease in one of the average Estonian families, he didn't tell me. But maybe the committee was discussing how great this decrease would be for an average family?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U147	Look, there's been a mistake in the calculations of this bill. Renewable energy charges have already fallen since 1 January this year, and it is beautifully felt. This is 10%, as far as I know, of the cessation of wood heating at Narva Power Plants. It is a significant mistake here that the impact of the renewable energy charge has already been reduced. That is not what you have shown in your draft. I also know that the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act will further reduce renewable energy charges. I also have a preliminary assessment from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but I can't control it with my own resources if these calculations are correct. However, according to this estimate, the further reduction could be 4.5% of the final fee. But once again, I can't control it. The draft submitted by the Centre Party would reduce electricity bills by 3.6%, which means a saving of 84 cents per month for the average consumer. I think it's a pretty microscopic decrease, and not a lot of people help.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U148	Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U149	Good waitress, I still don't give up. In fact, I do not believe that the time has come in Estonia to say that if the Ministry writes that excise duty is forcing the producer into economics, then so it is. Those days are long gone. You yourself are a highly experienced leader, and I think you can still answer the question of how it is possible that producers are forced to produce excise duty effectively when the consumer pays for it. It forces the consumer to economics, I keep turning off the electricity and boiling the porridge for 20 minutes instead of five minutes, warming it up a little bit with a flashlight under the toilet. This is my chance, but Eesti Energia has absolutely no clay, how much excise is, whether four euros, six euros or seven euros. They have absolutely nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U150	Yes, of course, ultimately the consumer will pay for it. But the question is, at what price can be sold, the price must be competitive. For companies that consume electricity in their production, electricity, together with all its components, is one element of the cost of production. When a cost item in production becomes more expensive, it forces it to stick together, perhaps thinking about technologies that are less energy-intensive. As we know, Estonia's problem is that our production is relatively more energy-intensive than other, more advanced economies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U151	Please, Mr Gräzin, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U152	Good Aivar! We talked about the fact that the price of electricity has reached the limit of social tolerance, and absolutely everyone in this Chamber has probably meant that it is going to be difficult for low-income people to pay their electricity bills. I mean social tolerance in a bit wider. Now we are talking about reducing one price component. I want to tell you that comrades from Eesti Energia welded 6,000 euros into the National Library's electric bill just as well. There's books, people want to read books, and that's 6,000 euros, but there's nowhere to take it. Is it really the right thing that one state institution is pranking another state institution that Eesti Energia is pranking the National Library? The National Library and we readers are not able to prank Eesti Energia; they never matter, but they do. What's it gonna be?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U153	This question comes out of the context of this debate that we had in the Commission. Yes, the state budget of EUR 6 000 is a small amount, but for one of the libraries, which is because for the country's largest, it is a significant cost that I don't think was well anticipated and planned in the budget. That's a problem. I do not know how this issue will be resolved, whether money will be found by saving another item of expenditure, or whether some other budget change will be made during the year. But there is a problem and that is the correct reference on your part.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U154	Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U155	When you talk about the victory that the average Estonian family gets, you talk about it as if it were a very small victory. In my opinion, 250 kroons a year after saving is a very important amount for some families. But if we were not talking about the average family, but about local governments, because it also hits local governments hard. If we cut the excise duty 4.5 times, it will help the local authorities very much. Municipalities have planned several tens of thousands of euros in electricity bills for their sub-offices, and if they could save 3.6%, it would be a very big win. Let me get this straight. Our bill would also help local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U156	Yeah, if you insist on one side of it, that's a pretty microscopic relief. If we look at the average family, there is another aspect at stake which was not properly addressed by the initiator's representative, who spoke before me. This draft does not actually have any sources of cover and the problem is the state budget, because more than 30 million would not be collected in the state budget under the influence of the draft. This has not been resolved by the initiators. It's just that the bill, just like the sources, isn't right. The proposed measures have been taken from the presentation by the Tax and Customs Board and, as far as I am aware, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance are preparing drafts to that effect. I very much doubt that you will understand what these measures mean. For example, I asked the initiator how the introduction of a business ban would make it possible to recover tax debts. I got the answer that if bankruptcies are systematic, then somehow it's going to work. At the same time, I have also heard a statement that a ban on entrepreneurship could be applied when tax debts arise. This is obviously not a proper measure for the rule of law. This issue is not so simple, and the measures that the government proposes in its drafts, as said by the representative of the Ministry of Finance in the Commission, have already been taken into account in the budget forecast, as far as is possible with current knowledge. So the sources of cover offered are not enough to compensate for less income; 30 million is quite a large amount. On the one hand, yes, local authorities and other consumers will win, but the state will have more problems. Unfortunately, this bill will not be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U157	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U158	Good waitress! Was the Commission discussed, or do you think that it is possible to reduce the price of electricity in the current circumstances? I am referring to the prevailing market situation. Are we not giving a false signal to society when we are talking about reducing the price of electricity in the context of renewable energy charges or excise duties? It is true that we are trying to keep the situation under control by one measure or another, or to slow down the price increase, but we are talking about lowering the price of electricity. Did you talk about it at the committee, or what do you think? Perhaps this is how we are going to give the whole society false information that we are now going to lower the price of electricity? I don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U159	Yes, I also think that we are sending the wrong signal when we are talking about reducing the price of electricity in a situation where energy prices are rising worldwide. Your observation is absolutely correct! Rather, we should talk about how to slow down the rise in electricity prices, because energy is rising globally, whether we want it or not. There are many serious issues to discuss here, even network charges, whether from the budget of the European Union, the amounts of infrastructure or the construction of networks, how to calculate them, as well as the renewable energy charge that we are going to deal with today. There are many topics, but it is not correct to talk about reducing the price of electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U160	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U161	Good waitress! It is possible that I am not familiar enough, but I have not noticed, either today or in previous discussions, whether there is some reasonable or unreasonable reason why we have so much higher than the European average for electricity excise duties. Suddenly your committee has discussed this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U162	The excise duty is not enormously higher than that applied by other countries of the European Union. Indeed, there are a number of countries with a minimum rate, but there are also countries such as Denmark and Sweden, which have much higher rates of excise duty. So we are no exception to the comparison of other countries. Let's take even Denmark, there's a rate of 109 euros, in Germany, 20 euros, we have 4.47.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U163	What about Poland?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U164	Honourable fellows! Here in the Riigikogu, we have rules of procedure and procedures that provide for how to ask questions. Would you like to answer that question, Mr Sõerd, or should we proceed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U165	We asked the Ministry of Finance at the committee meeting for this information, and we got that comparison. I'm ready to send you that chart.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U166	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U167	I'm listening, good waitress, how you're so great at defending this government position. In fact, we have a fairly high level of excise duty in the interest of companies in the way that their activities become more efficient, production becomes less energy-intensive. Is it possible to extend the reasoning from here to that is what makes them more efficient in terms of the high electricity price, which is one of the components of the final price of this excise duty? Can it be said that the higher electricity price that has come into force since this year will also make it more efficient for small companies that were not yet in the open market? And now that we think about society as a whole, isn't all of this suddenly positive for both local governments and people: we all act more effectively, including less electricity?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U168	You see, as far as I know, I wasn't in the Riigikogu then, but I know that the electricity excise tax was introduced already in 2007 or 2008, when the Minister of Finance was Ivari Padar. This is the case since then and excise duty has not been raised in recent years. But, of course, in the production of electricity, especially when it is produced from oil shale, there is an environmental aspect at stake. I am emphasising this aspect here, which we have little talk about: there are quite strict environmental requirements and charges in the European Union for producers who emit pollutants into the environment, while they import electricity from third countries where production is not burdened with high environmental charges. That's unfair. So excise duty also has a certain environmental aspect. In short, there are a lot of arguments in this regard, in addition to the fact that excise duty fills the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U169	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U170	Austet waitress! In parallel to Minister Parts in briefing today, you have called the impact of this bill microscopic on at least two occasions today. However, we will immediately discuss the draft electricity market law initiated by the government, which has exactly twice as little effect as microscopic. Do you think we have now reached double standards, in addition to double standards for cover sources, as well as double standards for the impact of draft laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U171	Let us still be accurate and correct in our assessments! The argument that this draft, which your group has submitted, has sources of cover is absolutely not true. Secondly, the draft is misleading in the sense that the assessment table does not take into account the existing impact of environmental charges. And thirdly, the explanatory memorandum says that the bill reduces the family's electricity bill by EUR 1.26 per month, with a real impact of EUR 0.84 per month. I do not think this list is definitive. We are still both correct and accurate!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U172	Thank you. Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U173	I accept the word that we are both correct and accurate. Mr Kalev Kotkas is still a member of the Social Democratic Party Group and this draft was not initiated by the Social Democratic Party. But you mentioned that electricity excise could somehow support the environment and be inspired by green thinking. If we consider that electricity excise duties also apply to renewable energy, would it not be more meaningful in this context to try to achieve the same objective, for example, with oil shale mining or resource charges? It seems a much more effective way to stand up for a green mindset than an electric excise.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U174	Yeah, that's definitely the subject of the debate. I cannot better answer you this question; let us discuss this issue separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U175	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U176	Dear waitress, Sandor Liive, the leader of Eesti Energia, visited our group today. He explained that Eesti Energia has paid a resource and pollution fee of about 50 million euros each year in recent years. The more they invest in reducing pollution, the more resource charges will be increased. So in fact, in addition to having a pretty high electricity excise duty, 50 million pollution and resource charges are collected from Estonian Energy alone on the price of electricity. But here's my question. You failed to answer why our electricity excise duty must be EUR 4.47 if the European Union has a minimum rate of EUR 1. Why are Latvia and Lithuania using the minimum rate?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U177	I don't know, I can't comment on the different national considerations. We asked the Committee on Monetary Affairs to present the rates of other countries. We can extend this approach and ask the Ministry of Finance to send background information on why one or the other rate in one Member State or another is exactly the same. I'm sure that's an interesting subject. We could do with such an extension of the question, it would provide additional information. But it hardly helps us very much, because countries have their own considerations and differences when designing their tax rates, so that their rates may not be one-to-one transferable and applicable here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U178	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U179	Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! You stated the fact, and it's very good that the electricity is much higher. I understand from your report that electricity excise can't be brought down by law. My question has something to do with this. Did the Commission discuss what to do to make the price of electricity go down? Or do we have no way out of where we are now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U180	I don't know where you're going with this, that I've just been saying that the increase in electricity prices is very good. This is clearly your fiction. However, in the Commission, we did not go beyond the scope of this draft and did not discuss more broadly the issues of mitigating future increases in electricity prices. But this is an important issue and could certainly also be the subject of further discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, not just the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U181	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U182	Good waitress! You have stood aside twice from the answer to why Estonia has an electricity excise of 4.47 euros per megawatt-hour if the European Union requires 1 euro. Why is there 4.47 in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U183	I think that those members of the Riigikogu who were at the decision-making stage when this excise duty was introduced were either 2007 or 2008 will certainly be better able to respond to it. I was not a member of the Riigikogu at the time. But it is not right to regard this rate of EUR 4,47 as something special in the European Union. This is certainly not the case, countries have set very different rates of excise duty. I repeat, we can extend this issue and, in addition to national excise rates, ask the Ministry of Finance for background information on what considerations different countries have. But once again: our excise duty rate is not one of the highest in the European Union, it is many times higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U184	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U185	Dear waitress, You said that the reduction in excise duty from EUR 4,47 to EUR 1 would have microscopic effects and that this microscopic effect would be 3.6%. You feel very at home in the world of numbers. The renewable energy charge that we are discussing today is EUR 8.7 per megawatt-hour, and this rate is intended to be reduced to EUR 8 per megawatt-hour. The winner is 0.7 euros. If excise duty were to be reduced, the win would be EUR 3.47. How can you say that 0.7 euros won is not microscopic?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U186	But take also into account the reduction in renewable energy charges that have already taken place. This reduction, together with the effects of the draft under consideration, can be quite tangible. This 84 cents per average family electricity bill per month, i.e. 10 euros 8 cents per year, is not a significant relief. It's a small influence. However, from the perspective of the state budget, this is a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U187	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Kadri Simson, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U188	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The debate on this draft has been very white with duplicity. Double-faceted in the sense that if it is possible to reduce electricity bills, it is said that this option that we decide would have a microscopic effect on all households, municipalities and businesses. If there has been a reason to raise the same amount of taxes, it has always been very important for the State. We are now seeing that whatever is an excuse, in fact, in view of the balance of the state budget, we are enjoying the rise in electricity prices and the resulting other price increases, because more taxes, including VAT, will be collected. The microscopic increase in electricity prices has certainly not been, and the opportunity we have to mitigate this increase is not microscopic. Especially when we are thinking about the 15,000 households that have over the years listened to the recommendations of Estonian leaders and switched to electric heating in heating their home. These people will have to pay more cents or some euros, but their bills will amount to several hundred euros per month. For them, the benefits of a reduction in excise duty would be significant. Also, this excuse does not mean that the reduction of excise duty from EUR 4,47 to EUR 1 per megawatt-hour is a small win. That actually means a win of 3.47 euros for every megawatt-hour. Alternatively, a reduction in renewable energy charges is proposed. Let's look at the numbers for a second. Indeed, at the end of last year, the renewable energy fee was EUR 9.7 per megawatt-hour. It was reduced to EUR 8.7 per megawatt-hour and a promise was made that if the law were to be adopted, it would fall to EUR 8. In this case too, the maximum win is EUR 1.7 per megawatt-hour, while the reduction in excise duty is EUR 3.47. I will now read to you the names of 20 European countries: Belgium, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Greece, Spain, France, Ireland, Italy, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia and the United Kingdom. These are countries that add less excise duty to the price of electricity than we do. We can say that Denmark and the Netherlands, for example, add much more, but these 20 countries have decided to add less. With our electricity excise, we are invading the first five in Europe. There's only one country ahead, and then we're among the five. This is not justified in any way, because, anyway, if I say so, I rely on Statistics Estonia's data just add higher taxes than the average in Europe to the price of electricity in Estonia. The share of our tax is close to 30% of the total price. I'm not gonna stop at the sources again. But Aivar Sõerd also had to admit, with all his involuntaryness, that the tax administration had these initiatives in mind and if applied, it would bring more into the Estonian state in the form of better collection of taxes imposed so far. The representative of the Ministry of Finance also said in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the sources of cover offered by the Centre Party are correct, which cannot be said of a number of drafts initiated by governments. Thank you for your attention. I think that this bill would need serious treatment and is a shame if we missed the opportunity that would help to soften the cost of electricity most quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U189	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is to reject draft 339 at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee 339 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 51 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 34 against and no abstentions. Draft 339 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U190	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Land Reform Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and consequently amending other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. So we can go to the preparation of the final vote. I'm voting on bill 335. Please take a stand and vote. There are 71 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Thus, the draft law amending the Land Reform Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and consequently amending other laws has been adopted as 335 laws. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U191	We will move on to the third item, which is the third reading of the Bill 352 of the Law on the Administrative Division of the Estonian Territory, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and related amendments to other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Tarmo Tamme, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U192	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Today we are discussing the draft law 352, which reached the third reading, i.e. the amendment of the Administrative Division Act of Estonian territory and the related amendment of other laws, which aims to encourage voluntary mergers of local governments. The Central Party of the Riigikogu has always taken the view that the local government system cannot be changed quickly and without a clear vision for the future. The attempts made so far to restructure the Estonian administration have largely failed because no thorough analysis has been carried out and time-consuming processes have been tried to push through in a very short period of time. Cooperation between municipalities and the state must be built on mutual honesty and consideration of each other's opinions. We certainly support the increase in the municipal merger grant and we also consider it right to extend the range of beneficiaries. This increases the opportunities and interest of municipalities to join and gives them greater freedom to choose their partners. We have always taken the view that administrative reform cannot take place under compulsion, but above all must create conditions conducive to the voluntary accession of municipalities. In the case of forced merger, where the Government of the Republic and local governments oppose each other, no one wins from the merger of local governments. We also consider it appropriate to offer local authorities, within the framework of new mergers, equal conditions for the grant of accession support. The current restriction was completely unjustified in view of the further development of the municipality organisation: the success of the merger process was significantly reduced as the municipalities no longer saw the incentive to participate in further negotiations and possible new mergers. The financing of basic schools in the territory of the merged municipalities raises questions. The problem is that if in the future only one comprehensive school is to be financed on the territory of the municipality, it will certainly act as a barrier to the merger of the municipalities. If there are several strong competitive comprehensive schools in the territory of the municipality formed by the merger, they must all be adequately funded. A specific question is also the special nature of islands, i.e. the possibility of joining with each other also those municipalities which do not have a common administrative boundary. Such a solution does not make sense and goes clearly against the tradition of the formation of local governments. There is no doubt that local governments are more effective in the territorial whole. However, when rural municipalities unite, separated by several tens of kilometres, this automatically creates additional problems for municipalities and obstacles to the provision of services to their residents. I agree with the opinion of the initiator that the islands are in a special position due to their geographical location, but alternative solutions could have been considered in support of the municipalities on the islands. Simplification of the merger under the conditions offered by this draft law may not lead to the desired outcome. At the same time, as I have already mentioned, the bill promotes the voluntary merger of 352 municipalities, increases subsidies and extends the autonomy of municipalities and cities in the selection of cooperation partners. The draft thus contributes to improving the well-being and quality of life of Estonian people, which should be the purpose of all decisions taken in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. The quality of the services provided in cities and rural municipalities and the confidence of local authorities in the future must improve in the reorganisation of the administrative arrangements in Estonia. Therefore, the Estonian Central Party has always looked at the local government organisation in general. In our view, the most important thing is to create a real-life self-government system based on the principles of the European Charter for Local Government, i.e. at the same time... I'm asking for an extra minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U193	Good fellows, I beg you to be quiet! There's too much noise in the hall. Thank you. Please, one more minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U194	This means that the administrative organisation of Estonia, the tasks assigned to the local government by law and the budgetary possibilities of cities and rural municipalities and the basis for the formation of revenue must be considered at the same time. Above all, people should be taken into account, not dry statistics and numerical calculations. All emerging municipalities must be successful and financially independent, clearly aware of their responsibilities, needs and opportunities, in particular the amount of revenue. This clarity and certainty must be ensured by the state to the local authorities, both through legislation and through the implementation of the current policy. The greatest concern of local government and Estonian people is the lack of clarity about the future. Therefore, it is important that the merger or merger of local governments is long-term thought of as to whether the municipality to be formed will be viable in five, ten or fifty years' time. This is particularly important for young people who want to have a job opportunity in their home and a school in twenty years' time when they create their own family and choose jobs. The state and local authorities must be mutually good partners and there must also be administrative reform in the process of gradual and mutual cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U195	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us now go to the preparation of the final vote on bill 352. Good fellows, I'm putting bill 352 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 62 members of the Riigikogu, one against and two abstentions. Thus, the draft law amending the Administrative Division Act of the Estonian territory and amending other laws in connection with it has been adopted as 352 law by the Government of the Republic. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U196	We will move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the State Legal Aid Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the State Tax Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and the related draft law amending other laws 346. I ask Kalle Jents, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U197	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was passed at first reading in this Chamber on 30 January and after that the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed it on 18 February. No amendments to the draft were received. However, we received a letter from the Harju County Court proposing that the institution of the judge of the people be abolished. This is quite an interesting proposal and it is certainly worth considering, but we found that it is not right to propose such a amendment within the framework of this draft law. This is such a fundamental change that it certainly deserves a separate bill. As I said, no further amendments were made. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 27 February, today, to conclude the second reading and to send the draft to the third reading when the second reading is closed. All these proposals were made by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U198	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments have been received to Bill 346. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed, as is the fourth item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U199	We will move on to the fifth item, the second reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Toomas Tõniste, member of the Economic Commission!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U200	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I will give an overview of the procedure in the Committee on Economic Affairs between first and second readings. The Economic Commission received one amendment within the deadline, which was from a member of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kallo. A representative of the initiator of the draft act sent 11 proposals to the Commission for consideration. In addition, the Commission received proposals and views on the draft text from the Estonian Renewable Energy House, Eesti Energia, the Estonian Power Stations and District heating Association, Fortum Tartu, Fortum Estonia, 4E Biofond, the Estonian Wind Energy Association, Vaivara Wind, AS Raunistal and others. The Economic Commission also asked the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for an opinion on the draft. At the meeting of the Economic Commission on 4 December last year, the Commission invited all representatives of the authorities and organisations that submitted opinions and proposals on the draft, heard their views and explanations on their proposals and held a general discussion of the draft. The working group of the Economic Commission prepared the draft for three meetings of the Commission. The Commission discussed the preparation of the draft for the second reading at six meetings with representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. A longer discussion arose on the following issues: the principles of support for wind power producers, details of the definition of existing producers, the payment of subsidies for electricity produced for the power plant's own use and the fixing of the expiry date of the entire support scheme. The Commission decided to propose 13 amendments to the draft, eight of which were submitted to the Economic Committee by MKM, two came from Elering and one by a working group. In the case of this draft, we must certainly dwell a little bit on legitimate expectations. The essence of the principle of legitimate expectations is that everyone must have the opportunity to shape their lives in a reasonable expectation that the rights and obligations conferred on them by the legal order will remain stable and will not change in a strikingly negative direction to a person. This principle protects a person's legitimate expectations and confidence that he or she will not be deprived of the rights granted by the State which he or she has begun to exercise. In order to ensure a minimum degree of possible interference, existing producers have been provided with the possibility of recourse to the Competition Authority in order to obtain a reasonable rate of support which would guarantee a reasonable return on the project on which the investment decision has already been taken. In cases where the electricity producer has made investments using or taking into account the subsidies, such investments shall be protected by the principle of legitimate expectations. Changing legislation to the disadvantage of the producer is an obstacle to the principle of legitimate expectations. However, the violation of the principle of legitimate expectations is not yet a violation of the principle of legitimate expectations. The Supreme Court has found that the principle of legitimate expectations does not mean that the restriction of the rights of persons or the termination of benefits is at all unacceptable. The principle of legitimate expectations does not require the existing regulation to be petrified. The legislator can redesign legal relations according to changed circumstances and thus inevitably worsen the situation of some members of society. The decision on which reforms are to be carried out and which social groups prefer with these reforms is the responsibility of the legislator. It is also important to have a public interest objective, which is a fundamental right for third parties, the property of consumers, protected by § 32 of the Constitution. In the light of the fully opening electricity market from 2013, the granting of subsidies has started to have an impact on the EU single market. The Court of Justice has held that the allocation of any State-controlled instrument constitutes State aid. Following the judgment of the European Court of Justice and the opening of the Estonian electricity market, the draft scheme of subsidies is state aid in nature and the state must apply for authorisation to grant State aid from the European Commission from 2013 onwards. The aid scheme in its current form does not benefit from a State aid authorisation. In assessing the extent to which there is a legitimate expectation, account must be taken of the fact that most of the investment decisions of windmills currently producing electricity have been taken before 12 February 2010, when the current limit for wind power subsidies was changed from 400 gigawatt-hours to 600 gigawatt-hours. On this basis, the vast majority of producers have had a genuinely legitimate expectation of obtaining a production support of up to 400 gigawatt-hours. In the case of 2013, their subsidies would now be around 30% lower, i.e. they would fall from EUR 53.7 per megawatt-hour to about EUR 38 per megawatt-hour. According to the draft, the amount of subsidies for electricity produced from wind power will be limited to 600 gigawatt-hours, with a reasonable level of profitability being guaranteed to existing producers. This option is not provided for in the current Act. Another topic for discussion was the own consumption of the power plant. On the basis of a letter sent by OÜ Helme Energia to the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications proposed to amend the draft in such a way that electricity supplied through the producer line, which is used for the production of electricity in the same power plant, may be eligible for support in the future. A later analysis of the wording revealed that this option does not fully satisfy the electricity producers and aims to allow the payment of subsidies for all the electricity they consume. However, the representatives of the initiator of the draft did not agree with this solution. If initially the cost was estimated at EUR 137000 per year, granting this request would have meant a cost of around EUR 4 million per year. Since the Committee on Economic Affairs has received contradictory information from the parties involved in this matter, the Commission decided to further discuss the power plant's own use after the second reading of the draft. I will now stop, more specifically, on the amendments. For example, proposals 3 and 12 reflect dates. According to the legal opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, 15 July 2012 and 1 January 2013 may be contrary to the principle of legal certainty arising from the Constitution. Between the entry into force of the Act and the relevant date, there must be a smaller time difference and this principle is more in line with the date 1 March 2013. Amendment 6. The fixing of a well-founded rate of productivity is not proportionate to consumers' expectations. However, the goal is to earn reasonable profit. If the investment did not generate a reasonable return under the scheme in force at the time it was made, the change of the scheme should not make the project profitable. According to EU regulatory practice, 8 to 12% of the capital invested is considered a reasonable return on renewable energy development. Amendment 7 replaces 915 gigawatt-hours by 1006 gigawatt-hours. This is the specification of the national gross consumption for 2013. However, the substantive change concerns producers using wind as an energy source. As a result of the amendment, wind power producers will in principle remain in the same situation as they are currently (competitive within 600 gigawatt-hours) and within the threshold, the existing wind power producer will not be distinguished from the new producer. As a difference, existing producers using wind as an energy source are subject to the option provided for in § 1 (5) of the draft guarantee of reasonable investment productivity. The last amendment, Amendment 14, deletes the second paragraph which provides for the entry into force of the law. The implementation of the grants covered by the draft can only take place on the basis of the European Commission's State aid authorisation. Since the entry into force of the draft is subject to authorisation by the European Commission for the aid covered by the draft, it is not currently possible to set a precise date of entry into force. Technical and linguistic changes have also been made to the draft, which in no case alter the content of the draft. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, it was decided to put the draft at second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 27 February, to propose that the second reading be suspended and that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be 10 working days, 13 March at 17:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U201	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U202	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, As we know, in an open electricity market, the payment of renewable energy support will require a State aid authorisation. We have also realised in the Commission's discussions from the representatives of the Ministry that, after the end of second reading, this authorisation request will be addressed to the European Commission. But I had a question about the fact that the Minister just made it clear in Question Time that this law should be passed to the Riigikogu first and only then could we go and ask for a state aid permit. It doesn't make any sense if the officials don't know what the minister is thinking and which way the right one is. Can You Explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U203	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U204	Thank you. Unfortunately, I did not hear the Minister's reply and do not know exactly what context he was responding to. MKM has so far confirmed that it is right to interrupt the second reading and to obtain a State aid authorisation for this scheme.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U205	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The media dealt with the issue of the joint declaration of MKM and the House for Renewable Energy, the Declaration of Understanding. At least in the media, it was argued that the House for Renewable Energy had somehow failed: however, the agreement that should have been part of this draft law was not in practice. I myself have not followed up on this question. You got very close to the answer in your speech, and maybe I didn't know where to pick it up. But I'm still going to ask you what your assessment of this declaration of 19 July last year is.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U206	Thank you. The House of Renewable Energy, which allegedly represented the interests of all producers and developers, and the MKM tried to reach an agreement and also got a chance to move forward on the subject of renewable energy charges according to both visions. In the meantime, it has become apparent that the House for Renewable Energy has still not represented the interests of all producers and developers. Secondly, MKM has, in fact, repeatedly stuck to supporting this memorandum on several points, but we have had this draft here in the Commission and in the Chamber and we have the right to make changes there. It's as simple as that. To date, some amendments have entered into the draft and some have indeed been found justified by MKM.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U207	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I might not have had the current question if I had received an answer from the Minister for Economic Affairs here a few hours ago. In fact, I am interested in the extent to which one of Estonia's average families will be saved in monetary terms if this bill enters into force. Juhan Parts was talking about the ground and the weather here, but I didn't hear a specific number. Let me see if you'd be better suited to be the Minister of Economic Affairs. I'm sure you would. Can you tell me that number?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U209	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U210	Thank you. The new benefit scheme will save EUR 283 million for the period from 2013 to 2020. Anyone can make that calculation themselves. On average, the electricity bill will decrease by 4.5%. We've been provided with this kind of information.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U211	Thank you. Good performer! The Competition Authority carried out a study on this subject already in 2010 and pointed out that the subsidy scheme introduced by the Electricity Market Act is unsustainable and distorts the energy market. The Competition Authority has now found that the draft does not ensure that the objective pursued is met. How come you don't take into account the positions of the Competition Authority?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U212	Thank you. As I said before in reporting on the activities of the Economic Commission, we have dealt very thoroughly with this issue, met different parties and certainly taken into account the vision and concern of the MKM. That is why some changes have been introduced to this bill. For example, it is justified that a specific number of capital production of in excess of 10% has been withdrawn so as not to create a temptation and an additional opportunity to go to those who have not done so to date. They must now give serious reasons for this to the Competition Authority. That's the one with the expectations. The expectation is that the burden on consumers will be reduced by EUR 283 million. Whether it is little or much is really a question of interpretation for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U213	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U214	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! When dealing with this draft, the interests of consumers in particular must be taken into account. I think everyone in this hall gets the same idea. It must also be said that the procedure for this draft has been a very, very complicated process in the Commission: every week or every week something has been changed, the Ministry of the Economy has come back with its proposals and they have been reviewed. Nevertheless, the contradictions of the Aadu Black Memorandum are quite unambiguous. This is also referred to by the letter from the European Commissioner for Energy on compliance with or non-compliance with agreements. How serious do you think this problem can be with manufacturers and also with the European Commission in mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U215	Thank you. That is why I discussed the principle of legitimate expectations at length. That is the basic argument that we made an investment against certain promises, and now these conditions are being changed. However, the aim of this draft has certainly not been to create much better conditions for anyone than before. Here it could be pointed out that it was for wind power producers that this version of the memorandum would have brought more money compared to today. In fact, the old scheme is essentially maintained for everyone, but the difference is that it is now linked to the price of the stock exchange, or electricity. There are possibilities both ways. If the price of electricity starts to rise, they will still receive their rate of 93 euros per megawatt-hour, but will receive less support. And if the price of electricity starts to fall, which is not excluded, they will receive more support. This does not apply to wind power producers, but applies to cogeneration plants which have such an option. The main dispute on this subject has so far been with wind power producers. And why was the subject of legitimate expectations highlighted? A large part of the investments or decisions had been made before 2010, when the limit was 400 gigawatt-hours. This means that at present, if this limit had not been raised, they would have 30% lower subsidies, 50% lower in a few years' time. Compared to this, we have much better conditions for the current draft than they were when we made investment decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U216	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U217	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! My question relates somewhat to the previous question. Although this draft has been much worked on and met with various parties, there is still a group of companies that do not agree with it. And if the bill is passed as a law, maybe they'll go to court and start demanding better terms. Can you tell me who these entrepreneurs are? And what could be the potential costs for the state if someone actually goes to court?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U218	Thank you. It is very difficult for me to mention these companies specifically. Perhaps most specifically in his letter, Fortum, who has said that they are going to court, has expressed dissatisfaction. I'm curious what exactly is going to trial with. If, after five years, it turns out that they have earned more, will they go to court because the support scheme was changed to make more? I mean, they're giving us more opportunities right now. For example, if the price of biomass increases for cogeneration plants, it will be compensated. At the same time, all these companies need a State aid authorisation. If this is not the case and the aid scheme is found to be in breach of the rules on State aid authorisation, they will have to repay the aid. Then it can be said that they do not receive any support at all. There's so much solid in here! Anyone can threaten, it's very often done. But whether they actually go to court, whether it all worsens their situation, and if so, how much is a question of its own.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U219	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U220	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Can you tell me how much time the Ministry and the Commission took before coming back to this debate to proceed with this draft? A month or two, a half year? Will it even be continued this year? After all, this bill relates to the state budget and local government budgets. I'm not talking about the business sector. Can you answer that question?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U221	Thank you. I think it is actually in everyone's interest that this draft be dealt with as soon as possible. The current situation, where it is unclear and potential investments are standing, does not satisfy anyone. This support scheme is expected to be clarified. There have been views that the change in the support scheme will not result in investments. At the same time, we have been approached by a number of potential investors who are also willing to invest at significantly lower rates if they fall. They expect us to adopt this law. What the actual situation will be, is indicated by time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U222	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U223	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Have the text and amendments of this draft been discussed with the House for Renewable Energy?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U224	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U225	Thank you. They have moved back and forth on several occasions, and proposals have also come from the House for Renewable Energy. Some we've been able to count, others we haven't. In this sense, we have been quite active in cooperation and communication. I don't know what to complain about here. I would rather call for as close cooperation as there has been between MKM, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the other parties in dealing with other drafts in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U226	Thank you. Honourable performer! From last autumn's press releases, in the media, I read that the IRL promised to adopt this law by 1 January. Now we have spring outside, but we haven't been able to accept it. What happened that the IRL couldn't fulfill its promise?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U227	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U228	Thank you. The desire was to adopt the law as soon as possible. This was certainly the wish of many who have already invested, and also of those who want to invest in this sector. Members of the Riigikogu have often also had a desire to process the draft longer. We wanted to discuss this in substance and listen to all the parties involved. Today, it's so far from me that I'm in this hall and I hope we can take one step forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U229	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In one of your previous replies, you said 280 million to the consumer as a result of this bill until 2020, which has also taken into account the increase in renewable energy charges for this period. But let's make it easier here. An hour ago, during the debate on the draft, the coalition pointed out that revenue was very low. I also ask that if this bill becomes a law, several euro cents will be reduced this year's average family bill. How many eurocents is the victory of the average family this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U230	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U231	Thank you. Our committee did not discuss the consumer's average victory, and I have not done these calculations specifically for myself either.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U232	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! One of the reasons why the second reading of the draft is interrupted is that Europe is going to apply for a state aid permit. I ask what is the agreement between the two coalition parties. Has the IRL and Reform Party discussed all the issues related to this draft? If not, is that one of the reasons why this bill is actually being put on hold?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U233	Thank you. In my opinion, I explained very clearly why it is proposed to interrupt the second reading. To go to the European Commission for a State aid authorisation with a specific grant scheme. That's why the reading is canceled, or we wouldn't interrupt it. It is a matter of time before it takes months for the bill to get back to the Riigikogu and we can knock and accept it here. If, in the meantime, there is a huge need to change something else, then this possibility we have, because we interrupt reading the draft, it can be done. But I would rather say that I think this bill is another very good example of the good work done by our committee and the Riigikogu. There is no coalition, there is no opposition, but basically we all wanted to make the best draft. And when we look at the votes in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the proposals presented by the Commission have not received any votes against during the procedure for the draft, although there have been many votes. This, too, shows that we have essentially had a consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U234	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U235	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Electricity producers have made investments, and I think that they are therefore subject to the principle of legitimate expectations. There has been some talk about this, but I would like to ask once again whether this bill violates the legitimate expectations of economic operators. And I would also like to ask whether this situation has now been thoroughly analysed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U236	Thank you. The entire draft has been drawn up in such a way that it does not violate the legitimate expectations of economic operators. That is why they have been given additional guarantees, and if anyone falls below the European average for a reasonable return on capital, they have the right to go to the Competition Authority and ask for more. In the past, for example, wind power producers did not have this possibility. This actually compensates for the price risk that has come from linking the subsidies to the price of electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U237	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U238	Thank you. Good waitress! In view of the previous procedures of the Electricity Market Act and the energy law procedure in force before it, it can probably be said that these procedures have occasionally not been the most correct decisions, which have led to an increase in expenditure. Within the framework of the current procedure, officials in the Commission have also given us very contradictory explanations in answering the same questions. How do you appreciate as the leader of this procedure how firmly we make the right decisions this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U239	Thank you. Personally, I have not really noticed that the answers from the ministry were contradictory. I would put it this way that, rather, the Commission has understood things differently. Today, however, I have such an understanding that this bill represents the interests of consumers, the companies that have made investments and also the interests of future investors.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U240	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U241	Thank you. Good waitress! I will specify, looking at the amendments, that there was no consensus on all the points. There are also a number of amendments that were opposed, as well as a large number for which there was an abstention. Although, in the tables that we currently have on the table, it is clear that the amendments have been fully taken into account. But that doesn't mean consensus. I referred earlier to the disagreements with regard to the memorandum. I ask whether I understand correctly that your party's fellow Minister for Economic Affairs has concluded a memorandum with producers that will make the situation of consumers worse and even improve the situation of wind power producers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U242	Thank you. I will correct the first part of this question. I tried to formulate my answer in such a way that the Commission's proposals have not received any votes against. However, one of the Commission's proposals was also not to support this draft and from there came these votes against then. It is inevitable that it will be easier to be impartial on certain issues if there is no position, but at least there has been no opposition. As regards the memorandum, I would say that it was inside that existing wind power producers would have obtained a monopoly. They are now known to have a limit of 600 gigawatt-hours ahead of them and to be exceeded this year. Over this line, they start distributing grants among themselves, which means that their subsidies will start to fall. Against the background of the memorandum, the situation of existing producers would have improved. This does not mean that the cost to the consumer has been higher because the border is ahead and that it will remain.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U243	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U244	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! In the autumn of last year, an article was published about how the Competition Authority points out that the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act increases the payment of subsidies to a number of renewable energy producers, which increases both the amount of subsidies paid and the tax burden on consumers. Hence my question: how do you appreciate this now, when it has been months? After all, the Reform Party and the IRL have advocated lower taxes, but the tax burden is now rising.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U245	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U246	Thank you. As I said earlier, we tried to look at this bill with the view that we also take into account the criticisms of the Competition Authority. And the justified productivity of this one specific percentage of capital, 10%, we took out so that it would not give a very clear indication. So far, those who have had a return on capital close to 1%, 2% or 3% have not asked for any additional support, but many have said that in the case of the new law they would immediately go to ask for it. Our aim was to ensure that we did not create any additional costs for the consumer, and that is what we have done.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U247	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I will continue to ask about the House for Renewable Energy, because it is one of the most important partners in this matter. Can you state in more detail which of their proposals were rejected and which were taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U248	Thank you. One of the main proposals was for existing producers not to have 600 gigawatt-hours at the border. We know that production volumes are such that in the coming years this limit will reach 800 gigawatt-hours. This would have meant an additional cost to the consumer of EUR 10 million per year. The House for Renewable Energy, which presented us with the 100% transition to renewable energy, represented only the interests of existing producers and, in the context of this draft, it was not based on the fact that we are essentially getting 100 megawatt-hours of renewable energy production for the same money. It was in this context that it was intended to create a monopoly and to deprive new entrants of the opportunity to receive subsidies. We did not accept this request because we found that this was not justified. This was also the amendment tabled by Mr Kallo, which was taken into account in substance. It was a matter of self-sufficiency. I do believe that those cogeneration plants or wind farms that wish to do so (although some of them currently have a return on equity of more than 20%) do not need to receive an additional EUR 4 million per year for electricity own resources. That would raise questions about what we're doing here. Even without subsidies, a number of producers currently receiving support have a return of more than 10%. We are clearly representing the interests of consumers here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U249	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U250	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Economic Affairs. You have just said that one of the aims of this draft is for consumers to have smaller electricity bills. However, you refuse to say (which was also refused by the Minister for Economic Affairs) how much the electricity bill for one average family would decrease if this bill came into force per month. This inevitably creates a parallel that the end of this draft may be as sad as the draft anti-monopoly law, when the skiesmanna and half the smaller water bills were allowed, but instead it led to the rise of water bills across Estonia. I understand that at the moment, the renewable energy charge added to the electricity bill is 0.87 cents per kilowatt-hour. What will be the rate of renewable energy per kilowatt-hour if this law is passed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U251	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U252	Thank you. It is estimated that the cost-paying support of consumers in this draft, compared to the current scheme, would decrease from 1.67 euro cents per kilowatt-hour by 2020, to 0.71 euro cents per kilowatt-hour, i.e. almost two and a half times.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U253	Thank you, Mr President. The representative of the Committee on Economic Affairs! In its opinion on this draft, the Competition Authority notes that, when implementing the draft, the payment of aid will increase for producers with a low total cycle efficiency which will not achieve the allowed productivity of the invested assets by 10%. What is the reason why you prefer low efficiency producers? Is this some kind of step-by-step support, or are you moving from your worldview to still supporting the poor? Maybe one day you'll embrace the concept of progressive income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U254	The Dark One.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U255	Thank you. In my opinion, I have already mentioned four or five times here today that, in response to the vision of the Competition Authority and many others, this 10% has been withdrawn from the draft so that this problem does not exist. That is why we have not listened here to the recommendations of the House for Renewable Energy, but we have made a second decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U256	Thank you. Dear waitress, Today's information technology allows you to make all kinds of tricks, including calling in the middle of a discussion with those you're talking about. So I just made a surprise speech to one of these groups and asked what they wanted when they said they would rather win than lose. Reference was made to the Supreme Court's statement that everyone must be able to exercise the rights granted to him at least within the time limit laid down by law and that the amendment must not be word-circumstances to the legal entity. I was just told that change if you want, but those with whom a contract has been concluded should continue in the old spirit and so on. Against this background, I also asked them, but they did not answer, how likely it could be that this bill would involve relatively long and annoying court proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U257	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U258	Thank you. It's very difficult for me to say. I'm sure someone might want to go to court. I don't know what the end result is. I understand MKM isn't afraid of litigation. And that's my answer, too. Then let's go to court and get this straight. If someone is really hurt, he gets some money back (as much as he's been harmed). Nothing bad's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U259	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I know that my colleagues have also asked you what is the specific impact on one average Estonian family per month if this bill should become a law. You have it figured out. In the case of electric excise duty, you were well aware of how much it was worth €1.5 per month. So how much does this bill win a month? Is this a remarkable victory?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U260	If the effect of the electricity excise duty was 3.4% of the electricity bill and it is 4.5% here, it is slightly more than EUR 1.6. Consequently, it is close to EUR 1.7.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U261	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U262	Thank you. Good waitress! Existing producers are entitled to this support under the current Electricity Market Act and are limited in time to 12 years from the start of production, and in the case of wind power it is also limited in volume. That is what has been said here many times. Therefore, the principle of legitimate expectations applies to those producers who are already producing, because the State has promised them this aid for a period of 12 years. The principle of legitimate expectation does not apply to those who are just planning to start their production. Do you agree with the fact that the constitutional barrage is still on those producers who are already producing, not those who are just planning to start production and apply for this support?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U263	Thank you. Basically, I agree with you. But there is also a legitimate expectation for those who have made investments but are not producers. I have seen legal analyses where they claim that they have the same legitimate expectations as those who are already producing something. Opinions and legal analyses are of all kinds. In the end, however, if there is such a dispute, it must be decided by the court. I would add that support will remain for existing producers, so that no one has a wrong understanding. As has been said, they will not be deprived of their support, and they will also be able to exceed the threshold set at about 1016 gigawatt-hours in 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U264	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U265	Thank you. Rapporteur for the Committee on Economic Affairs. For each draft law, an analysis of the costs and sources of coverage of the implementation of the law must be provided. The explanatory memorandum to this draft law states that no direct expenditure in the state budget is foreseen in the implementation of the law. When negotiating with the Ministry of Finance, it became clear that the VAT added to the renewable energy charge would still be lost. What is the cost and where does the source of its cover come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U266	Thank you. There was no such debate in the Commission, and I have not seen these calculations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U267	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U268	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Economic Affairs. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has concluded a Memorandum of Understanding with the Estonian Renewable Energy Board, which agreed not to apply the restriction to wind power producers, but this restriction is included in the draft. How did this happen, and is it the custom of the Ministry to make an agreement, but then they do the opposite?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U269	Thank you. I honestly don't understand your criticism. One way you complain about the opposition being run over and not counted. It is also bad when your colleague Kalev Kallo's proposal is taken into account in substance, the Commission dares to think for itself and the members of the opposition can express their views. Please explain what you want, then we can continue to talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U270	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U271	Thank you. I know what I want. As a representative of the Commission, you have also been critical of the memorandum signed by Mr Parts, which has already been discussed here several times today. This memorandum has also been criticised by the Competition Authority. Perhaps you have your own position, so why did the Minister enter into such a harmful agreement for the consumer?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U272	Once again, this was not an agreement that was harmful to the consumer. This will, in any case, ease the cost for the consumer. Our job was to polish it, make it even better, and close the possible holes. That's how we've done it here at our best. I wouldn't oppose it at all. They made a deal with each other that's gonna live their lives. And we have every right to make changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U273	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U274	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! MKM confirms that the cost will nevertheless arise when this law enters into force. You can't tell me, you haven't seen the calculations how much this cost is. As far as savings are concerned, it is likely that very long trials and, as a result, probably some kind of payout will be expected. I guess I'm a little long at thinking, but tell me exactly where the savings are in this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U275	Thank you. The savings are that they certainly do not exceed EUR 280 million in costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U276	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Lembit Kaljuvee, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U277	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This bill has raised a great many questions in me. Why am I on the remote? I do not know any drafts here in the Riigikogu that would have raised so many unanswered questions for me. I should share energy issues in some ways, but I had a lot to do in the Commission when I tried to follow up on one or another amendment in order to understand its true content and impact. I am pleased that the decision to read this draft law had to be interrupted in the Commission. What am I happy about? Because, in fact, neither the Ministry of Economic Affairs nor the Commission nor the undertakings have understood the seriousness and content of this law. A little over six years ago, this law was prepared in this hall with an ax. The Ministry had put out a much more reasonable law, but the Riigikogu made a law of its own wisdom, where the cost of producing electricity was 26 cents and the renewable energy producers were paid 84 cents for each kilowatt. What's good about processing this bill? We learned that serious and complex laws must not be adopted by the 'axe method', things must be discussed. The second thing that became even more clear to me is that we must not come up with a bill that has a'retrospective effect'. We're not going through these things, we're not going to do it with an axe or bring any bill to this hall that has retroactive effect. The third thing I want to remember and put to the heart of all of us, especially the people involved in energy, is one serious law. It needs to be properly worked out, all sectors examined alone, and then taken this decision. I don't think we have to rush it because we've heard all kinds of figures. This law should be developed by sector and the signal should be given not to go backwards, but to go forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U278	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Tõnis Palts!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U279	Ladies and gentlemen, IRL's position on this issue is simple: there is consumer interest, only and only consumer interest. But the opposition and what to deny there, in some cases the coalition in this hall has erected a series of myths. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U280	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U281	There's gonna be a lot of myths. Myth one. We cannot compare the reduction of renewable energy charges and the reduction of excise duty. You can't risk them at all. The excise duty is distributed in the country for essentially social purposes. Most of the renewable energy charges go to the Centre Party's 'favourites', i.e. foreign owners and banks and their owners. That's a very important difference! Second myth. Renewable energy investments will be protected as hugely beneficial investments for Estonia. In fact, these investments are of no importance in the Estonian macroeconomic environment. This is an external investment. Goods are being sold out, jobs are almost not being created, and we're just paying for this fun from our own pockets. Myth three. It is incomprehensible that the opposition is delighted that wood chips can no longer be used to produce renewable energy. It cannot be used because we have enough renewable energy, there is no point in producing it more. In fact, the use of wood chips in macroeconomic terms would be more effective in creating jobs, etc. Myth four. Some of the opponents and one party that is not currently part of the Riigikogu have extraordinary support for renewable energy from the wind. In fact, wind generators ruin the nature of our beautiful homeland. For example, in the West-Estonia, tourism, activities resulting from the care and servicing of summer homes are almost the only sustainable industry in the long term. The installation of wind generators in the islands is directly countering the emergence of a sustainable economy there. The fifth myth. At times, the negative attitude of both the opposition and some members of the coalition towards Eesti Energia is very incomprehensible. I ask you whose interests are protected by Juhan Parts. If he protects the interests of Eesti Energia, whose assets he fights to increase? At the same time, I ask whose interests will be protected by the House for Renewable Energy, if I am not mistaken, by the Socialist CEO, if he stands for increasing the assets of wind energy producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U282	Thank you. Please speak to the Riigikogu Chair Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U283	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not have come here to speak on the remote if it had not been for the previous speaker, whom I do not remember from the discussions of the Commission on this subject. I do remember that half of the IRL group went to discuss this with us and, in the meantime, changed people every half hour. I'm not coming here to protect anyone, but the myths of Tõnis Palts he was talking about seemed to be myths to him. I think that, in many ways, those people who have treated this bill a little more balancedly and looked at it have a second opinion. This issue is not as easy as you might think from the previous speech. I asked why the disagreements with the producers were in the draft and whether the memorandum of July last year would not pay anything. I also asked the people of the Ministry of Economic Affairs in the Commission. They admitted that there really were differences of opinion that should be smoothed after the second reading was stopped. I'm just thinking about the self-help issue here. The letter from the European Commissioner for Energy is certainly worth mentioning. We cannot overlook this if we really want to get a State aid permit from Brussels. As time goes on, the more I feel that there will be a series of unprepared and incorrect drafts coming from the Ministry of Economic Affairs that need very serious improvements from the Commission. Its sign is also the next bill to come into this Chamber today. Now for the damage question. We do not know what companies are planning to do with this law. Here, speculation has been made on the amount of damages claims amounting to up to EUR 130 million. If it's smaller, it's bigger, I can't tell from this remote. However, it is clear that this issue must be treated in a very reasonable manner. And as I declared to Mr Toomas Tõnis my first question, first and foremost, we still have to take into account the interests of taxpayers, or electricity consumers. Yes, it has been a very difficult draft for the Commission. It is also a sign that the explanatory memorandum only reached the members of the Commission on the 25th day of the day before yesterday. All these procedures, which have been carried out in more than three months, have been changing and have certainly been very thorough. But that doesn't mean that someone in this remote control can only come and tell their truth, as we heard from the previous speech. To conclude, I dare say that the government has not wanted to deal with the reduction in electricity prices, although the levers are there to do so, this is the subject of excise duty, and this is the proposal that we have put forward to abolish the charges for renewable energy from consumers' bills. A few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U284	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U285	As a token of this, the chairman of our party re-introduced a bill on Thursday last week, which should save 37 euros a year on people's accounts. I hope that the draft we have tabled does not deserve the same fate, or rejection by the coalition, as was the case a few hours ago with the draft reduction of excise duties by the Central Party. I wish MKM every success in applying for a state aid permit. I also hope that there will not be any problems with the renewable energy charges paid in 2007-2012, as this was not really a permit during this five-year period. And let's be honest, that's not a permit to ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U286	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Igor Gräzini!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U287	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, If my colleague, Tõnis Palts, had not spoken right now, I would have missed the point, too. Just where he left off, I should keep talking. The problem is wind energy and Saaremaa, Muhu County, Hiiumaa, the whole of Läänemaa. I want to draw your attention to what Tõnis actually said. I am simply stressing this again, because it seems to be such an important issue that will not go away. As this issue concerns wind energy, I would like to stress that one of the current myths is that wind energy is environmentally friendly. Wind energy is one of the most polluting forms of energy today, and I draw your attention to the main aspects. Why are we talking about this? Because a company that produces wind energy has been trying for years to put these guys up on Muhu Island, but thanks to Muhu people and also the energetics of Tallinn University of Technology, led by Professor Rein Oidram, this thing has somehow been prevented. But during this so-called Muhu discussion, the harmful factors of wind energy have come out very clearly. In short, the only renewable component for wind energy is what is least needed and what is most irrelevant, namely the wind, the rest will not recover. The first moment Tõnis spoke of is the visual contamination of the environment. Those who come from the Virtsu Sea, i.e. Kuivastu, know very well how ugly it all looks, and most of them don't go around yet. The next visual effect is the so-called flicking that we see driving towards St. Petersburg. In fact, this flashing in the eyes will have very negative health consequences for both drivers and people present on the ground and will sometimes lead to traffic-dangerous situations. Thirdly, the generators used in these windmills contain very harmful substances and, in fact, the production of wind generators itself is a very polluting activity. Now I'm stressing the last moment to which, for some reason, the least attention is paid. We're talking about turbulence with wind generators. If there was a windmill here, and this way the wind would blow in, say, 10 meters per second, then behind that windmill would be 3 1⁄4 m/s just because the energy would use to spin the wings of the windmills. The real consequence behind the windmill is that I had three physics at school, but as far as I know, the name of the thing is turbulence capillary. In short, because of its capillary nature, there is a difference in pressures that extends from 15 to 20 km in Virtsu, for example, with its slep. In reality, this means that there is a difference between pressures and a certain barrier from which all small insects, such as honeymoon, cannot fly through. But if there are no mummies, there are no birds to eat them. And if there are no birds, the fields behind the windmill will be affected by all kinds of pests. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U288	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U289	I highly recommend because I see that many of us have computers at hand, so please watch a movie called Silent Fields, in Estonian 'Squire Fields'. It is a German film that talks about fields of hundreds of hectares and which are like real fields, only the difference that there is total silence. Birds don't sing, and if there's some kind of natural vermin, these fields will be destroyed. Silent fields, this is the natural environment that lies 15, 20, 30 kilometers behind the windmill. Professor Oidram and I showed this movie and also pictures of Muhu's people. They're smart, they're smart, they're smart, and they knew they didn't want that kind of shit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U290	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U291	Thank you. This has all led us to this situation today. We are also honest about the acceptance of the transition to a free market for electricity in the accession negotiations with the European Union, after all, is another example that we did not understand what we were doing. And now we're in a situation where nobody's good anymore. Only between being in opposition, it makes sense and it feels good to yell, that we are not good. While in the coalition, it is reasonable and pleasant to say that all those who shout that we are not good in our energy market are stupid. The coalition doesn't have a choice. The opposition doesn't either. It's his thing to criticize. But the sum of the sum, what have we got? We do not have this free market, because we are basically still producing this electricity here by windmills, oil shale ovens or whatever. We started playing the free market on a specific day and we did not know how to ask the European Union for a slightly longer transitional period. Not only does our overall political culture not allow us to be in dialogue with society, so that people, small businesses and medium-sized enterprises, who are still important from the point of view of the Estonian economy, can find any solutions to how to jointly survive this free market bucket created 10 to 12 years ago. We're not doing this discussion. We do not care, because we have decided so that the free market has come into force, and now everyone be quiet. What is now positive is that there is, however, some kind of dialogue on these renewable energy charges. A solution is being sought so that, on the one hand, the appearance of the state does not deteriorate and, on the other hand, with the other party, the players in the renewable energy market, the businessmen, do something about it. If we could do this, therefore, I think that the reading of this bill will be interrupted, then next, we could all think together that, in our economic structure, it is not normal that the electricity that we produce will cost our people and our small and medium-sized enterprises (large companies are long ago in the free market) as much or an grams less than in the Nordic countries in Finland. Finland and Estonia are not economically comparable. You see, we have to consider that we are not alone in the world. And on those issues that cross-cuttingly affect society as a whole, they are entrepreneurs, pensioners or whoever, there can be no such thing as not admitting that we did not know how to make the right decision ten years ago. Let's learn from this. And let's just say I'm not happy with my electric bill. I'm gonna keep saying that every minute I get to get the remote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U292	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U293	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't have come to this remote control if Tõnis Palts and Igor Gräzin hadn't been here and the subject wasn't serious. I do not want to criticize wind energy in any way in my speech because as well as Igor Gräzin understands it, I do not understand it. But I know that from a military point of view windmills are harmful to the Estonian state, because in the shadow of the windmills, the opponent may bring an air escort to our immediate border on the helicopters, and our radars may not see it. The other problem is that if our allies wanted to land a chopper landing on their ships to protect our ground forces' operations, the windmills would disrupt the choppers below radar, or the enemy's anti-aircraft clearance. Reading the landscape, windmills are a very bad factor from a military point of view. But that's not the point. I was just trying to show my involvement with the windmills, which concerns my current work in the Riigikogu. I want to talk about the situation more broadly. Recently, energy issues have been a very serious point of debate. The Centre Party will fight for the reduction of electric excise duty by all means in its hands. Tõnis Palts protects Eesti Energia and says hands away from this company, because it is good, good, nice and like all of us. But I'm gonna ask you back. We are now facing a problem where we are talking about renewable energy charges and their reduction. In fact, we invented these renewable energy charges at one point and gave renewable energy relatively normal development opportunities in Estonia. The proverb says you don't have to be poor, you have to be honest. It is true that the Centre Party was also a member of the government when the renewable energy programme was launched in Estonia. At present, the issue of renewable energy charges is indeed being hit. On one side it is said that the credibility of the economic environment of the Estonian state is under threat if we change anything. On the other hand, it is on the table that we have to pay support to someone whose business we all build the same amount of energy generation capacity from our common wallet to compensate for. As we know, there must be a compensation mechanism for wind power, for example. It must be balanced so that there is no shortage at the moment when there is no physical wind. All this long talk leads to me sometimes thinking that we may not be very reasonable people or that we do not have the ability to see the big picture. We're always tossing somewhere, not actually making normal decisions, and then we're wondering how it could go like this again. It is clear from the day that if Tõnis Palts protects Eesti Energia and says that burning chips in the oil shale furnace is a very sensible activity, then I cannot agree with that. I myself was a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs when this topic was discussed, and I admit that perhaps I was stupid at the time too. But when wood is cut off from the forest to bring it to the furnace to burn, it is clear that the harvester that drives into the forest is still picking out the log. The Harvester is not designed to pick branches from there. And so these logs started driving nicely into the oven, which in reality meant that apparently the owner of the forest got a little more money, but the prices of timber on the territory of the Republic of Estonia went beyond reason. Poor people also had to pay 800 kroons a cubic metre for firewood, which is completely irrational. I'm taking extra time, too, and I'm not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U294	How much do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U295	Are you sure?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U296	Sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U297	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U298	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Imre Sooääre!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U299	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I came to the speaker's desk spontaneously, because a number of colleagues spoke about very important issues relating to islands and windmills. I'm not personally in favour of or against windmills. However, I would like to talk about two aspects which maybe the previous speakers did not bring out well enough, or which did not come out clearly of this debate. In one of these two aspects, I would call the sprat box effect. Everyone knows that during the Soviet period the box of sprat had a Tallinn silhouette. It was not only famous throughout the Soviet Union, but also half of Eastern Europe bought it. And everyone remembered this product from the beautiful silhouette of Tallinn. This means that the visual image of the environment has its own brand or emotional value and value for humans. For example, there is a restriction on planning in Tallinn that no high-rise building may be higher than the tower of the Church of Oleviste, and generally it is based on it. The islands also have beautiful natural views, and I am talking about the location of the installation of windmills, which can sometimes permanently spoil the effect of the same sprat box and cause visual pollution. We all know what a wonderful view is on the Holy Lake. If this lake of Sacred Lake, which we all know as a beautiful natural place, had been stacked with windmills, it would ruin its visual image forever. Such problems are emerging on some plans in the islands. I remember that, for example, quite a lot of people in Kuressaare had been complaining about when a surveillance radar was installed right in the middle of the city, which actually ruined Kuressaare's silhouette. Now there's a monster in the middle of town that might have been installed in another place. Everyone has an opinion of beauty. Do we need to protect any silhouettes, or do we set up cell towers everywhere? Maybe it doesn't matter. I am saying this precisely because many people in the smaller islands have spoken out just because of this visual pollution. Hence the great opposition on Muhu Island, as the windmill spoils the view of landowners' plots. The second aspect, which is associated with windmills, draws down the real estate price of the area's plots. In Denmark and other countries, the trend is that when windmills are installed on the property, the real estate price falls in their immediate vicinity, because they no longer want to buy their own cottages. We should very much rethink the laws that we are introducing in order not to create a situation where some landowners are unduly suffering from a fall in the sales price of their land, because visual pollution has been created near it. I'm only talking about the location where the windmills are to be installed, not green energy. I myself believe that Estonia is a country with a small enough population and a large enough territory. Compared to the countries of Central Europe that have been transgressed, there should be enough places in Estonia where windmills can also be installed in such a way that owners do not experience significant visual pollution and, as a result, land prices fall. If this issue has also been discussed in local councils in this regard, the consensus of the people we have received and the long-term effects, then I personally do not see that anyone should have anything against these windmills. I would stress that a very thorough reflection should be made on the wider environmental impacts of the installation of windmills in specific locations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U300	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We now come to the examination of the draft 318 amendments. A total of 14 amendments to the draft have been received. The first amendment is from the lead committee. The second amendment is by Mr Kallalt, the position of the commission is to take the substance into account. The remaining amendments have all been received from the lead committee, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth, the ninth, the tenth, the eleventh, the twelfth, the thirteenth and the fourteenth. We have therefore examined the amendments to the draft 318. The position of the commission is to interrupt the second reading of the draft. Second reading aborted. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft 318. 13 March at 17 p.m. The fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U301	Let's move on to item six. First reading of the Act on Insurance Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws begins. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U302	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I present to you, on behalf of the Government of the Republic, the draft Act on Insurance Activities and related amendments to other laws. The draft consists of regulations driven by a number of European Union initiatives. First, according to the Court's judgment, the insurance contract prohibits men and women from being treated differently when assessing risks. Until 21 December 2012, different treatment was allowed for the conclusion of sickness insurance, accident insurance and life insurance contracts. According to this draft, exceptions remain permitted in sickness insurance, where payments and benefits may, however, be determined taking into account risks which are specific to persons of only one sex. The second important change stems from a decision of the European Commission. The minimum requirements for own funds of insurance undertakings are amended and the limits used for calculating the own funds requirement are raised. The European Commission reviews these sizes every year. The limits will be increased if the European consumer price index exceeds 5% over the period considered. This means that Estonian insurers must have own funds of at least EUR 3.7 million instead of the current EUR 3.5 million in order to ensure compliance with their insurance obligations. Thirdly, the Financial Supervision Authority will be granted the right to penalise banks and other financial institutions if they fail to comply with the requirements of the directly applicable legislation in the field of securities markets and payment services in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U303	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Economic Commission, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U304	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, this draft was discussed on Monday, 18 February. The meeting was chaired by Mr Kallas, the chairman of the committee, and the members of the committee and the Commission secretariat were present. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi was invited with Kristiina Kubja, chief specialist of the Insurance Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance and Kätlin Atonen, adviser to the Minister of Finance. The Commission heard a presentation by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. In principle, the Minister also reported the content of this report in the large hall today. There was a brief discussion where the delegates received answers to their questions and had the opportunity to make appropriate comments. The Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 27 February (this was a consensus decision), to close the first reading of the draft law (as well as a consensual decision) and to set 6 March (as well as a consensual decision) as the deadline for submitting amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U305	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 349 amendments. a 6 March at 5 p.m. The first reading is closed and the sixth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U306	Let's move on to item seven. The first reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Maritime Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U307	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Members of the Riigikogu! The Government submits a draft law amending the Commercial Maritime Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the State Fees Act. The draft is based on the European Union's law, namely the European Union regulation on the liability of carriers of passengers by sea in the event of accidents. The draft provides that carriers operating passenger services on international routes must have insurance to ensure that in the event of accidents passengers can receive financial compensation. Although the EU regulation is directly applicable and these obligations apply directly to these companies, changes in Estonian law still need to be made. The Commercial Seafaring Act introduces additions to limit the liability of the carrier (about EUR 285000 per passenger). The draft also obliges the Maritime Administration, as the national competent authority, to issue a policy that meets the requirements of the carrier. The amendment to the State Fees Act establishes a state fee of EUR 40 for the examination of the application for a certificate of validity of an insurance or guarantee contract. The Maritime Safety Act is complemented by a rule on the basis of which the Maritime Administration will be able to detain a ship in the absence of proof of the existence of an insurance policy. It was a brief review of the draft. We propose to support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U308	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? It is. Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U309	Thank you. Good minister! I don't want to torture you any more with questions today, but I'm still asking. My question stems from the preamble to the explanatory memorandum, which states that this draft has been revised very thoroughly in the Committee on Economic Affairs and, in this respect, the explanatory memorandum has also been amended. Please tell me if there is such a lack of competence in the Ministry that you cannot get a proper draft on our tables, which is why the Commission must work so hard.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U310	Thank you for that question. I listened, by the way, to the previous debate. Then it was the same story that the Ministry was presenting a technically flawed bill. If you don't like the substance of the bill, don't tease like lawyers and they're not one, but the whole government wouldn't be able to produce a decent bill. The same sentence applies to this bill. How did the Commission process something around here in principle? Things can be presented either in technical or formal form, which is often a matter of taste. If you don't like the substance of the bill, say so. For example, if you wanted to increase the price of electricity paid by consumers in the previous debate, you could have said that you wanted the price of electricity to be raised. You want to delay the process of dealing with this renewable energy bill, and then you're looking for ten guilty parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U311	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Economic Commission, Kalev Lillo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U312	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give an overview of the Commission's work on draft 353, the Commercial Maritime Law, the Maritime Safety Act and the Draft Amending Act on State Fees. We discussed this in the Commission. February 21, 2008. The draft presented to us by Minister Juhan Parts together with Tarmo Ots, Head of the Aviation and Maritime Department, and Anton Meritsa, Chief Specialist of the Maritime Service. The Economic Commission shall submit this draft to the first reading, as amended, on a proposal from the Commission working group and with the agreement of the initiator. The draft has been technically organised with a view to ensuring legal clarity. Some substantive clarifications have been made in the draft, as well as a preliminary linguistic correction in the language department of Parliament's Registry. The Commission took decisions. It was decided to send the draft law amending the Commercial Maritime Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the State Fees Act to the Riigikogu for the first reading, as amended with the consent of the initiator of the draft, together with a new explanatory memorandum on 27 February, today, to propose that the first reading be completed and to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 13 March 2013. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U313	Good waitress, one question for you. Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U314	Thank you. Good fellow Commissionman! When the people of the Ministry of Economic Affairs left the debate on this draft, the Commission remained discussing the procedural side. Please introduce to the Riigikogu what the changes that the Commission introduced compared to those that came from the Ministry of Economic Affairs!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U315	Maybe there were some changes. I would like to make an extra point of the fact that, at first, the draft was merely a matter of the international carrier's obligation to guarantee the compulsory amount of insurance. Since this regulation provides for the possibility to provide for certain exemptions for ships operating on domestic routes, which would otherwise have had to guarantee this amount of insurance from that year, we have made an amendment which will give class A passenger ships a grace period until 1 January 2017 and class B passenger ships until 2019 in order to guarantee this amount of insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U316	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 353 amendments at 5 p.m. on 13 March. The first reading is closed and the seventh item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U317	Let's move on to item eight. The first reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Code of Civil Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Justice of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U318	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Allow me to introduce you to the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Code of Civil Procedure. Of course, as an introduction to this draft, I can also say that it is a very good draft. The purpose of the draft is to transpose into Estonian law Directive 2011/7/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 on combating late payment in commercial transactions. In the European Union, late payment and unreasonable payment periods for business-to-business and business-to-state transactions are a serious problem. The scale of the problem varies widely between Member States. A survey of European payment practices has shown that the problems are considerably more acute in the southern countries. For example, in Greece, the average default rate is 40 days in the private sector and 114 days in the public sector, 30 days in the private sector in Italy and 90 days in the public sector and 27 and 80 days in Spain respectively. The situation is better in northern Europe. If we look at Estonia's figures, the average time in the private sector is 15 days and in the public sector 10 days. The main objective of the directive is to improve the fight against late payment in the European Union as a whole. To this end, the Directive provides for a number of measures which seek to improve the position of the creditor and make the delay of payment uncomfortable for the debtor. According to the draft, late payment will have more negative consequences for the debtor than before, which should be dissuasive and avoid late payment. Here are the main changes. In my opinion, the fundamental innovation resulting from the transposition of the directive is the establishment of a regulation on the reimbursement of the fixed amount of the costs of recovering the debt. The creditor shall be entitled to claim compensation of EUR 40 in the event of default for the costs of handling the claim. If the recovery costs exceed EUR 40, they can be recovered from the debtor on the basis of general compensation rules. The regulation applies only to transactions in economic and professional activities. It also provides for maximum payment periods for economic and professional transactions, from which derogations may be granted only in limited cases. In business-to-business transactions, payment periods may not normally exceed 60 days but may be extended under certain conditions. To this end, there must be an explicit agreement and a longer period of time must not be extremely unfair to the creditor in all circumstances. In transactions where one party is a public sector agent, the general deadline shall be 30 days. It may be extended to a maximum of 60 days in limited cases. The third important amendment is the increase in the statutory interest rate. Currently, the statutory interest rate is known to be the interest rate laid down in § 94 of the Law of Obligations Act plus 7%. In the future, it will be a reference interest rate plus 8%. The maximum time limits for acceptance or review of a good, service or other good shall be set for transactions in economic and professional activities, which may be agreed upon when the time limit for payment begins to run after the acceptance or review of the good, service or other good. As a general rule, the maximum agreed maturity is 30 days. Departure from this is permitted only in limited cases. In addition, agreements concluded in economic and professional activities to exclude the right to claim interest for late payment are considered null and void, and the possibility of agreeing a lower rate of interest than the statutory interest rate is limited. These changes, which I have read to you, are the main corrections to be made in the Estonian legal order. We are pleased to support the Committee on Legal Affairs' proposal to conclude the first reading and, of course, to adopt the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U319	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. Igor Gräzini, member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U320	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was reviewed by the Committee on Legal Affairs on 18 February 2013. Counsellor Madis Timpson of the Ministry of Justice and Counsellor Kristiina Koll of the Department of Private Law of the Ministry of Justice attended the discussion. Everything about the content of the draft was explained very thoroughly and well by the Minister. This is a transposition of the directive. In the Commission, there was a dispute or a right place to ask. Since this is a world-view question, I'm just pointing it out. The so-called non-liberal aspect of the matter is, in short, that right is currently interfering in private relations. At the same time, the deadline for payment of the debt or performance of the contract is actually a matter of free agreement between the parties. All the more so, it is often the regulation of the payment deadline.. whether it is longer, shorter, etc... certainly a very important contractual condition and the subject of negotiations. However, a certain limit is currently being established. So this is something non-liberal. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that in many parts of the European Union, especially in the south, payment deadlines have sometimes gone unnaturally far and it is difficult to do business there. So the positive aspect of this directive is its clear orientation against Greece, Italy, Spain and other southern European countries. On the one hand, it is anti-liberalism regulation, but on the other hand, it is the imposition of a northern legal culture on the countries of southern Europe that are actually needed. We have no reason to fear anything from this directive, because our people and our companies are paying debts like order and duty. So it doesn't change anything for us. However, it imposes certain obligations and burdens on southern Europe insofar as this directive can be directly implemented. Having considered this matter clear, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided that this draft would be placed on the agenda of the plenary session, as has been done, and it is proposed that the first reading be closed. All decisions were taken by the Commission in a consensual manner. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U321	You have a question. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U322	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear waitress, Here's the question. You are a great legal expert and you have shown that this directive means imposing a culture of behaviour on the countries of the north. Can you predict or make any assessment as to whether this directive will succeed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U323	I hope that it will achieve moral success, at least in the sense that there will still be a rule that has not yet existed. In fact, agreements and normal civil procedure should work. I have a feeling there are countries where this standard procedure doesn't work. The Minister of Justice also referred to this, he mentioned Italy, Greece and other countries. The future will show. I do not believe that the directive itself and its transposition in private law will lead to some radical upheaval, because there is always some sort of opt-out. If two sides decide otherwise, the country can't really come between here. But I very much appreciate that at least this message has been sent and it has been said that there is no infinite delay in debt. The second thing, in fact, is that 40 euros is, in my opinion, a very remarkable amount. A creditor who is misbehaved has the opportunity to have his procedural costs and fees paid immediately. In this sense, it is a step forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U324	Good waitress, can you also state the deadline for tabling amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U325	Right! The deadline for tabling amendments is 6 March at 4 p.m. Sorry, it was on page two!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U326	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is that the first reading should be concluded. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 372 amendments in s. a 6 March at 4 p.m. This item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U327	Let us move on to the next item on the ninth item. The first reading of the draft law amending the Foreign Service Act and the Public Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Justice of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U328	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Allow me first of all to convey the excuses of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He apologizes for not being in front of you. However, since the public service is also involved in the Ministry of Justice in one way or another, I am now honoured to present you with this draft. The main objective of the draft is to amend the law of the External Action Service so that it is possible to conclude a contract of employment with administrative staff working in foreign missions. There are 66 of these people. Administrative staff are, within the meaning of the External Action Service Act, non-diplomatic staff, i.e. secretaries, drivers, administrative specialists. The current External Action Service Act only treats an administrative servant working in a foreign mission as an official in the public service. Since the Act on the External Action Service is a special law on the Civil Service Act, fundamental changes cannot be made to the External Action Service without amending the law on the External Action Service. Therefore, without amending this law, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would not be able to complete the reform under the new Civil Service Act to be launched from 1 April 2013. One of the fundamental principles of this reform is that those who do not exercise public authority will in future work for the authorities in their contractual relations. From 1 April, administrative staff working at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' headquarters, with a total of 115, will also work on the basis of an employment contract. The reform thus affects a total of 181 people, or 34% of the External Action Service. In preparation of the draft, the aim was also to maintain the Single External Action Service (EEAS). The Foreign Service Act, as a special law, establishes common principles for posting to a foreign agency and a package of social guarantees, such as covering removal and accommodation costs, covering the training costs of children accompanying parents, etc., both for diplomats and administrative staff. Although administrative staff working in foreign representation will work on the basis of an employment contract from 1 April 2013, the External Action Service Act will continue to apply to them. The Employment Contract Act applies to them in so far as the External Action Service Act does not provide otherwise. The amendments to the Foreign Service Act are essentially linked to the inclusion of the wording referring to the employment contract in the provisions relating to administrative staff. The Civil Service Act is amended by the draft only as regards its implementing provisions concerning the External Action Service Act. The proposal is to enforce the draft if the Riigikogu considers it right and is able to do so from 1 April 2013, just like the other provisions of the Public Service Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U329	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. I would like to ask Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U330	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the draft was held in the Committee on Foreign Affairs before it was sent to its first reading. a meeting on 19 February. Urmas Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs, presented the content and objectives of the draft to the members of the Commission. In addition, senior lawyer of the International Law Bureau of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Mare Tropp and Foreign Affairs Adviser Priit Kallakas were invited to the discussion of the draft. The debate in the Commission focused mainly on those issues that specifically concerned the changes and their compliance with the Civil Service Law. Members of the Commission received exhaustive answers to their questions. At the end of the discussion, the committee proposed to the Riigikogu Board that the first reading of the draft 366 be placed on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary on Wednesday 27 February and that the first reading be closed. The Commission also proposed to set six working days for the deadline for the submission of amendments at the end of the first reading of the draft 366, i.e. i. March 7th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U331	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 366 should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 366 amendments. 7 March at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the ninth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U332	Let's go to the tenth item on the agenda. The first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Place Name Act and the Land Book Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U333	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The current Place Name Act entered into force on 1 July 2004. The main objective of the Act is to ensure the harmonised use of Estonian place names and the protection of culturally and historically valuable place names. However, the application of the law has shown that some provisions of the law can be interpreted in various ways. This has not ensured a harmonised use or designation of place names. The draft is due to the need to update and to clarify the regulation on the designation and use of place names. To a large extent, the amendments proposed by the draft are of a technical nature which assists the designated parties in carrying out the related activities. I will highlight the major changes planned in the draft. Firstly, according to the Spatial Data Act, the draft reduces the work of municipalities in determining place names for rural units. The Spatial Information Act provides that the place names used in the place-address are only official place names within the meaning of the Place Name Act, i.e. the requirement to assign place names extends to the rural units when determining the place-address. This means that all land units must be assigned a place name in any event in conjunction with the current local name law and the recently adopted Spatial Data Act in the Riigikogu. In the draft, we mention the exceptions to when a rural unit is not an object with a place-to-place designation. These are cases where the land unit is addressed by the address location, the land unit is formed for the service of a technical object, the land unit does not have addressable objects, or the land unit does not constitute an independent immovable property. The majority of the land units are rather rural units serving technical objects, and only a small number are those which, on the basis of the draft, would remain land units subject to the site designation. This significantly reduces the work of local governments in ordering the place names of rural units, as not all units need to be allocated separate place names. Secondly, the procedure for determining the place name is simplified and reduces the volume of work. For example, it is not necessary to disclose the draft designation of the place name to the land units if the landowner requests the designation of the place name in person. The specification of this location has been omitted in the designation, the legislation no longer requires the addition of a map if the data and spatial shape of the name object are available in a public register, the designation of a place name for a private road does not need to be coordinated with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and there are other simplifications of this kind. Thirdly, the draft proposes to make a change in the subject of the designation of the commitment name, i.e. the issue of giving the person the name of the place. The Local Names Act specifies a period of five years from the death of a person who may not be appointed without the consent of the Regional Minister and without the opinion of the Local Names Council. For a shorter period than five years from the death of a person, this may take place in very exceptional and justified cases. The current law provides that the person's name cannot be designated as a person's name during the lifetime of the person, but does not foresee what can be done in the period after the person's death. Fourthly, the draft law introduces provisions according to which the controller of the place name register, or the Ministry of the Interior, can arrange the systematic employment of place names in the process of keeping the place name register. If so far the keepers of national databases have registered data on place name objects in databases as basic data (there are other registers), then according to the draft, the keepers of databases are obliged to transmit all data on place names in the database to the local name register, i.e. to a single register. Until now, the place names have been entered in the place names register only if a proposal has been made to that effect. As a result, the volume of data in the local name register has remained stable for long years from 36000 to 40,000 entries. In fact, there are considerably more place names in Estonia, estimated at 200000. Currently, several natural names, such as swamps, water flows, sources, are not included in the local name register. In order for all of these to be in one place together, and especially for high-speed responders to be able to find names of rivers, lakes, mountains and steep shorelines in a single register, it is necessary to provide in law that all of them must be entered in the local register of names. Fifthly, one provision of the Land Book Act is also amended, rather it is repealed. Paragraph 12 of the Detention Book Act provides for a list of the data to be entered in the title of the section of the register of immovable property and, according to point 4, also records the name of the property. The name of the property has given rise to many confusion and misunderstandings, as the persons do not understand what the name of the property, the name of the cadastral unit and the place name are. Often these terms are also used incorrectly. Since the designation of the property is a historical tradition and has a particular emotional value, and does not have that much practical value in determining it, the proposal does not require that the name of the property be entered in the land register, the name of the cadastral unit, or land unit, is sufficient. All other amendments proposed by the draft are of a more precise and explanatory nature to the current law. I would also like to make it clear that there will be no additional responsibilities or financial costs for local authorities in this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U334	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. Member of the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu, Heimar Lengi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U335	Ladies and gentlemen, The meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs on the subject was held on 18 February. The topic of the meeting was the draft law amending the Law on the Place Name Act and the Land Book Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 362. Siim Valmar Kiisler, Minister of Regional Affairs, Mall Kivisalu, Head of the Address Data Department of the Land Office, Olivia Talle, Legal Adviser to the Regional Development Department of the Ministry of Interior, and Aule Kikas, Adviser to the Local Government and Regional Administration Department. The minister, like here in Saalisk, gave an overview of this draft and told us why it was necessary. The original version was adopted in 2004, but life has gone on and registers should be more precise and place names should be brought together into the single register in the national place name register. As we have joined the European Union, it is necessary to ensure that our information is consistent with the acts and directives of the European Union. This is also the way this law is amended and the registration of data is well placed on modern foundations. All the members of the Commission received an answer to their questions. There were not many questions, because, as the Minister said in this Chamber, this law does not bring any new expenses or problems to the municipalities, as we know, who are giving and registering these place names. It's just a matter of cleaning up the registers, there won't be any major changes in the work of the local governments. No problems have arisen. Heimar Lenk, a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, who is standing before you, was appointed rapporteur for the draft proposal, decided to put 362 on the plenary agenda on 27 February, today, and to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed today. There was also a proposal to set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft by 10 working days, i.e. 13 March 2013 at 17:00, in accordance with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. This was a brief review of the Commission's work on this draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U336	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 362 amendments. 13 March at 17 p.m. The first reading is closed and the tenth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U337	Let's move on to item 11. The first reading of the draft Act supplementing § 199 of the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair of the Interior Minister Ken-Marti Vaheri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U338	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government has initiated criminal proceedings with a draft law supplementing § 199 of the Code. This is a short draft, which has finally reached Parliament. Our aim is to decriminalise with this bill cases where a person voluntarily surrenders a firearm, explosive device or a substantial part of it, ammunition or explosives in illegal possession. All of this is necessary because voluntary surrender can remove objects that pose a threat to general security from circulation and thus increase the safety of society. Paragraph 199 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure is supplemented by point 7 which provides for an additional basis excluding criminal proceedings. Between 2008 and 2010, the State has organised campaigns for the voluntary assignment of explosives. The aim of these campaigns has been to motivate individuals to surrender to the State explosives, explosives and explosive devices in their possession without a threat of punishment. These campaigns have been effective, they have increased overall security and public security. In the case of campaigns, the absence of intent has been regarded as an exclusion from criminal proceedings if, at the request of the State, the prohibited items are surrendered on the basis of free will. With the aim of increasing overall security, it is necessary to establish a regulation of the law that motivates people to voluntarily surrender firearms, explosive devices or essential components, ammunition or explosives. This bill is planned to enter into force in general terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U339	Minister, thank you very much too. There are no questions. Ms Marika Tuus-Lauli, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U340	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U341	I'm sure I'll welcome him.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U342	Ladies and gentlemen, The Legal Affairs Committee discussed the draft law supplementing § 199 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 376 on Monday 18 February. Ken-Marti Vaher, Ministerial Adviser Mariko Jõeorg and Deputy Chancellor of Internal Security Policy Erkki Koort attended the discussion. First of all, the Minister presented the content of the draft. It was clarified that the purpose of the draft is to decriminalise cases where a person voluntarily surrenders firearms, explosive devices, ammunition or explosives in his possession. This is necessary because voluntary surrender can improve overall security. There was a very urgent debate, there were a few questions. For example, there was a question of what would become of the weapons surrendered later. The answer was to make an expert assessment, and then those weapons go to destruction or museums. All received exhaustive answers to their questions. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 27 February 2013 to propose that the first reading be closed, to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 6 March and to appoint a rapporteur in front of you. It was decided by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U343	Good waitress, one question for you. Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U344	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In itself, it is all very logical and reasonable. I understand these campaigns have taken place for a very long time. This initiation and termination of criminal proceedings really seems ridiculous. In the explanatory memorandum, I read that the aim is to motivate people to voluntarily surrender firearms or explosive devices. Did the Commission discuss whether this somewhat ex post decision-making and non-initiation of a criminal case are sufficient incentives to achieve this objective?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U345	Thank you. There was no such question directly in the Commission, but it can be concluded that people still dare to come and give up the weapon because it is not followed by criminal proceedings. Of course, if something has been done with the weapon and it becomes clear after the investigation, there will be a special procedure, but basically, I think people will now dare to surrender weapons and Estonia will be clean.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U346	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 376 amendments at 16 a.m. on 6 March. The first reading is closed and the 11th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U347	Let's move on to item 12. The first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair of the Interior Minister Ken-Marti Vaheri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U348	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has initiated a draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. Its main objective is to create the possibility of shortening the time needed for the procedure, improving the quality of misdemeanour proceedings and, in particular, improving the efficiency of urgent procedures. The aim of this draft is also to improve and extend the use of electronically stored evidence in misdemeanour proceedings, which would reduce potential disputes in the certification of misdemeanours. Misdemeanour proceedings are the most common type of criminal proceedings. Misdemeanour proceedings consist in particular of out-of-court proceedings where the extra-judicial judge performs the functions of investigation, prosecution and justice, collects evidence, prosecutes misconduct and also punishes the person for the offence. It is important to ensure the effectiveness and economy of misdemeanour procedures. In the vast majority of cases, the presumption of misdemeanour is that the infringement has been detected in the course of national supervision. In this respect, it is important to ensure a balance between the offence procedure and the national supervisory procedure. According to current practice, processing one traffic offence takes 40 to 45 minutes as an urgent procedure, which means that supervision will have half or less of the staff working hours. In particular, the preventive effect can be achieved by the State through effective supervision. The draft prepared by the Ministry of the Interior aims to speed up and simplify the misdemeanour procedure while ensuring that essential legal benefits are protected. The draft provides for the following major changes: The possibility of using audio and video recording to fix a misdemeanour, as well as the possibility of using audio and video recording for procedural purposes, i.e., with the consent of the person subject to proceedings, to record his statements without drawing up written minutes. Secondly, the possibility of using an out-of-court handling officer as a source of evidence is created. Thirdly, the national register will not be printed. Overall, the aim of the amendment of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure is to create an opportunity to improve the quality of evidence and to reduce disputes by ensuring the optimal cost of resources for the procedure and avoiding duplication of documentation. This bill is also intended to enter into force in general terms. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U349	Minister, there are questions for you. Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U350	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will ask you about paragraph 3 of this bill. It's about a video or photographing recorded in national surveillance. What could this mean in 'national supervision'? Does that mean the cameras on the police car, or the cameras at the intersection, or the ones that go to take pictures of some kind of crime scene? What is meant by this and to what extent could it be linked to the violation of fundamental rights of individuals? A person does not know that a film is being filmed, and a third person, who is completely innocent in the sense of this misdemeanor, may remain on the record.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U351	Thank you very much for your question. This is where national supervision is meant. Most of the state supervision, which is also dealt with in misdemeanour proceedings, is carried out primarily in order to improve the traffic culture in Estonia, i.e. it is traffic supervision. When we talk about traffic separately, the automatic speed camera recordings you referred to will be dealt with in a completely different type of procedure, namely the alert procedure. This is a separate possibility created in Estonian law a few years ago. We are thinking, in particular, of the kind of national supervision carried out by law enforcement patrols and traffic surveillance patrols. These recordings are already being used. However, the difference is that these video recordings need to be recorded separately, and they require a large number of documents to be drawn up. They cannot be used as separate evidence in the proceedings, as a source, even in the event of a dispute not later in the course of legal proceedings. That is why we are talking, in particular, about video and audio recordings concerning the procedure itself. They are made in a patrol car, for example, and they are also fixed by speed cameras. Speed cameras are already in place and are increasingly equipped with video recording during this year. This will allow the time and place of the infringement to be fixed and the specific infringer and vehicle to be reproduced at a later stage. Playback is a value in itself. The greatest value of the amendments to the mistrial procedure is also that we are abolishing three of the four currently mandatory protocols under the urgent procedure, leaving the drafting of the urgent procedure protocol. This amendment removes the speed measurement protocol, which is replaced, if possible, by a video recording, the protocol for interrogation of the person subject to proceedings, which is also replaced by a video recording, and the witness's interrogation protocol. Due to the lack of formalisation of these documents, a significant amount of time will be released, which will ultimately be one of the resources of national supervision, which can then be used specifically for monitoring purposes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U352	Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U353	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You said it was about speed cams and traffic surveillance, but the bill speaks more about misdemeanours. This does not only include traffic offences. So when you read the law, you understand it a lot more than you brought it out. Have the courts been consulted on this draft? Are the courts prepared to accept this approach with absolute certainty?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U354	Thank you for your question. I spoke primarily about traffic because there are nearly 200,000 offences in Estonia per year and there are 160,000 of them, or more than three quarters. This is therefore particularly the case with traffic. As far as the courts are concerned, the courts have been consulted. This draft and these amendments have also been discussed on several occasions in the so-called codification working group in the Ministry of Justice, which has also looked at the changes to the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. This draft has been brought before Parliament under an accelerated procedure precisely because we are spending a large amount of resources because of the relatively bureaucratic misdemeanour that we are currently dealing with. We have talked here about nearly 70,000 hours per year, or the work of 30 to 40 persons per year, which is now required for documentation, but which is not necessarily necessary. The draft proposed by the Government has been presented before Parliament for the reason that this paperwork could be quite freely replaced by modern technical instruments. Of course, if there are disputes, there are debates about everything, but I think one picture is often a much stronger argument than a thousand words. As a result, video recordings have considerable weight in detecting misdemeanour. The police already have the technical equipment. Around one hundred patrol vehicles are equipped with these technical means, and this year we will increase this figure further. We are moving forward in a good way and making better use of taxpayers' money. However, I think that the Committee on Legal Affairs will also hear the views of the representatives of the courts and discuss the subject. At the same time, I hope that we will reach a solution by the end of the summer, so that we can begin to implement the changes introduced here in the second half of the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U355	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U356	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. When I listened to you, I wondered whether this draft had been discussed as to the extent to which it would be possible to forge or modify or assemble these videos. Has this been discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U357	Thank you very much. It has still been discussed and was also partly discussed in the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I can comment so much that there are no specific requirements for the quality of the recording. At the same time, it is clear that it must be possible to identify clearly the circumstances of the item of proof, the time, place and specific persons, as well as the specific act, must be identifiable. This means that the recording must be of sufficient quality. In my opinion, if someone wanted to fake the video footage, it was a very clear violation. These recordings are also played for the person under procedure; the person can get acquainted with them. He will be able to access, for example, a specific recording that fixed speeding. There have also been some public cases where it is questioned whether this vehicle has exceeded its speed. With modern technical means, it is quite possible to state clearly what this time and place has been and who has been a specific subject who has been fixed above speed. It will, of course, also be played before the person under trial. If he still doesn't agree, he'll always be able to go to court and argue. One might say, though, that those who argue are one in 100. But the state must, of course, be prepared to argue. Records are available, they can also be reproduced in court.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U358	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask Kalle Laaneti, Vice-Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu to present this speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U359	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a good bill, because it reduces the time and nerve costs of people who may have broken the law. But now I'm going to the Legal Affairs Committee and what happened there. On Monday, 18 February, we had a debate on this bill. Kalle Laane, Andres Anvelt, Igor Gräzin, Imre Sooäär took part, replacing Igor Gräzini, Kalle Jents, Marika Tuus-Laul, Neeme Suur, Peeter Võsa, Siim Kabrits and Valdo Randpere and advisers Linnar Liivamägi and Raini Laide. Invited were the Minister of the Interior and Deputy Chancellor of Internal Security Policy Erkki Koort. So there were some pretty victorious troops. This draft was discussed as the fourth item on the agenda. The Minister of the Interior presented the purpose of this draft quite thoroughly. I am going to add so much that about 1% or less of the urgent procedures that are aimed at improving the quality and speeding up are being sued. This is a very small part, given the large number of these procedures. The Minister of the Interior has announced that there are cameras already in 100 patrol cars and that there should be more of these cars in the near future. Member of the Commission Peter Võsa took an interest in the verification of technical resources. The Minister of the Interior has already responded to this earlier. He referred to § 314 of the Act, saying that a photograph, film or other recording of information taken by the Registrar is evidence in a misdemeanour proceedings if it has an identifiable time, place, manner or other acts of misconduct. Mr Valdo Randpere, Member of the Commission, concerned quality requirements, especially as regards the implementation of the various parts of the protocol. He proposed that the protocol should include mandatory electronic fields which would prevent the defendant from moving from one level to another without fulfilling it. The Minister of the Interior commented on this so that there is an e-field project, all patrol cars are equipped with laptops, and all the information they contain automatically goes to the database. My colleague Neeme the Great was concerned about counterfeiting. He asked if it was possible to forge a picture when it was transferred to another environment, for example. Theoretically, there is an opportunity. I would add to the Minister's comment that if there is a suspicion of counterfeiting, there will always be an appeal. This can be verified during disciplinary proceedings, and a variety of further expertise may be carried out if there is reasonable doubt. So I don't see much of a risk here. Imre Sooäär asked if it would take extra time to tap into the computer. On this point, the Minister of the Interior replied that all data from different databases would be drawn into the record automatically, i.e. an e-field procedure system would be implemented. Those were the questions that were asked. As regards the opinion of the courts, we have agreed in principle in the Committee on Legal Affairs that we will seek the opinion of the courts on this draft. The draft decision was to be sent to the plenary on 27 February (consensually), to propose that the first reading be closed (consensually) and to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 13 March 2013 (this decision was also consensual). Mr Kalle Laane was appointed rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U360	Thank you. Good fellows! Before we go any further, let me briefly introduce the procedure. Pursuant to § 98 (4) of the Home and Working Procedures Act, everyone has the right to ask two questions at first reading of this draft. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U361	Thank you. It was about whether it was possible to distort, fabricate, forge these recordings in any way. Yes, there have been such things in Estonian history. In this regard, the Strasbourg Court has said: 'It is very ugly when video documents are falsified. Don't do that again! " But tell me, please, what kind of transgressions are we talking about? There's gotta be a motive to fake something. It's a complicated job. I don't see that danger right now. Please tell me what kind of stuff we're talking about! Obviously, there is simply no point in counterfeiting here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U362	Thank you, good Igor, for the question. Basically, we're talking traffic offences. If we're even talking about defending constitutional rights and collecting information for public order in public places, then I know that you've been its fiery supporter ever since.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-27_U363	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 375 amendments in s. tho 13 March at 4 p.m. This item is closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 6.05 p.m.
