ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U1	Good fellows, good morning. We will begin the 10th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries! Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to question the Minister of Culture, Rein Lang, on behalf of myself and four other members of the Riigikogu. This is a groundbreaking decision in the field of archaeology. Namely, in accordance with the law in force in the Republic of Estonia, archaeological findings have been the property of the state and have been concentrated for the purpose of scientific research in certain collections, which together form the Estonian archaeological body. Now, however, the public attention has been drawn to a case where one of the rare coins found in the Harju-Rist church has been decided to hand over the church to the church by order of the Minister of Culture. In some ways, this whole story can make a lot of fun and the state loses its authority. For example, the Minister's letter to Academician Valter Lang states that the coins found in the church have certainly been donated and must therefore belong to the so-called legal successor of this church. In that case, maybe they should be handed over to the pope of Rome. After all, the pope was invited to visit, perhaps giving him a gift. However, this is a precedent for deciding whether an archaeological body should be in the service of science or whether it is to be distributed to other organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U3	I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Riigikogu! For very practical reasons, our group is launching a draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act. Indeed, one of the main ways of bringing the long-term unemployed back into the labour market is through work exercises. Currently, the state can only purchase this service through an unemployment fund through public procurement procedures. In practice, this has meant that in some parts of Estonia, such as Ida-Virumaa, where long-term unemployment is a serious problem, these people are for a long time without help for the simple reason that there are no good service providers. Even if they offer themselves, they are unable to provide this service, which is why contracts must be terminated and people do not do this work. The idea of our draft is simple: in addition to purchasing a service, the unemployment fund could have the right to offer such a service itself. This allows you to offer work practice to all long-term unemployed people all over Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U5	Riigikogu speech chair Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U6	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to introduce you to the question of several members of the Centre Party Group, Minister for Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool. In fact, the Youth Work Act states that youth work is the creation of conditions for the diverse development of a young person's personality. Work placements will certainly play a major role in the gradual preparation of young people for independent life, according to our common understanding. Students were also spoken of several decades ago, but in recent years it has regained popularity. Malev has grown every year, but the young people who want to get there have always been more than the student-friendly places. In recent years, there have been a number of questions about filling student housing that are addressed to the Ministry of Education and Research and the Riigikogu. On 9 May 2011, the Central Party of the Riigikogu submitted a draft Youth Work Act to the procedure almost two years ago, the first reading of which was completed on 28 September 2011. The purpose of this draft was to exempt from social tax employers who recruit students. During the procedure, the Government of the Republic also emphasised that the Ministry of Education and Research supports this idea and will further analyse the draft. We have three simple questions for the Minister of Education and Science about what steps have been taken and what the current position of the Government of the Republic is. The student season is at the door again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U7	Good fellows! There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and two inquiries. According to our Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17. Dear colleagues, there is a clarification on today's agenda. At the second item on the agenda, Aadu Must, a member of the Riigikogu, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators of the draft at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U8	Let's get to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of Bill 349 of the Act amending the Act on Insurance Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's start preparing for the final vote. I will put bill 349 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Draft 349 Act amending the Act on insurance business initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U9	We will move to the second item on the agenda: Priit Toobali, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi, Ester Tuiksoo, Mailis Repsi, Aivar Riisalu, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Heimar Lengi, Mikhail Stalnuhini, Lauri Laas, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Tarmo Tamme, Olga Sõtnik, Kalev Kallo, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Eldar Efendijev, Kadri Simson and Jüri Ratas, to amend the election procedure of the President of the Republic of Estonia. I request a speech chair of the Riigikogu Aadu Musta, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The content of the draft law under consideration is quite short, simple and clear. This draft seeks to initiate a change in the Constitution, which would lead to the direct election of the President in Estonia. No change in the President's powers or any transition from parliamentary order to presidential leadership would result in this change. The draft issued in the proceedings of the Centre Party Group provides that the party or at least 10000 Estonian citizens with the right to appoint a candidate for president shall have the right to vote. The candidate who has cast more than half of the votes cast shall be declared elected President. If the first round does not explain the winner, the second round shall take place between the two candidates who received the most votes. In the second round, the one who gets more votes wins. The draft does not deal with any other issues. It is, unfortunately, very difficult to be original when introducing this bill. I'd love to say something that others don't know yet. Unfortunately, when preparing this presentation, it became clear that the best arguments have already been repeatedly put forward. Older MPs, if they have not lost track of their accounts over long years, are well aware that today is not the first or second or third or the fourth or the fifth or the sixth, but the 11th time the draft on this subject is discussed in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. The initiative of President Lennart Meri is best remembered, who on 8 October 2001 handed over the draft direct election of the President with the words: 'The departure of the Head of State from politics gives him a unique opportunity. The opportunity, as well as the obligation to speak impartially and also to take steps whose impartiality is beyond doubt. /... / You have in your hands in a moment a bill that gives the Estonian people the right, which is the majority of the democratic European peoples. ' That meant a direct presidential election procedure. Today's draft is characterised by another aspect which does not require any effort to formulate, as it has been very strongly emphasised in the past. At the meeting on 8 March 2005, a draft amendment to the Constitution initiated by 71 members of the Riigikogu was discussed in this very Chamber, which was also intended to transfer to the President's direct election. During the debate, Urmas Reinsalu, head of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at the time, tried to reduce some of the fears of potential opponents with the following words: 'Political debates have probably been held over more than any other public issue concerning our state life. And speaking more broadly about the amendment of the Constitution, it must be stressed once again that this is not a total revision of the Constitution. This is an amendment to one of the elements of the Constitution. This does not change the constitutional regime or the parliamentary mechanism. ' Urmas Reinsalu was also pleased at the fact that President Arnold Rüütel also supported the President's direct election. If you look around the archives, we will find the position taken by the best-known lawyers in Estonia on the subject. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the opinion of the honourable Märt Rask, which reads as follows: 'Only weak parties with no public confidence are in favour of electing the Head of State in Parliament. ' As far as I know, there are no weak parties in this Parliament. There have also been voices here and there that direct election of the President could threaten democracy. Someone was worried that we would have, like, Belarus. No! If we have a direct election to the President, we will have the same thing as Austria, Lithuania, Portugal, France, Slovakia, Slovenia, Finland and some other European countries. As you will remember, the Czech Republic has recently moved to the President's direct election, too, and this transition did not give rise to any negative opinions. Some of you, ladies and gentlemen, did not find the countries on this list, which are your favorite in terms of the organisation of your state life. However, this is not about the selection procedure, but rather about longer-term developments and traditions. Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium and some other European countries are precisely kingdoms and the heads of state are not elected there. In order not to plagiarise the thoughts expressed over and over again, I refer again correctly to the words of Urmas Reinsalu: 'The mechanical correlation between it, as if the directly elected President had more constitutional power than the elected President, the Legal Expertise Commission did not identify in its material. ' Direct election of the President is a European political tradition that is characteristic of a large part of the countries of the European Union. If we compare the procedure for electing our Head of State with that of other European countries, we will find only one really important difference. I am thinking here of the current selection procedure. This difference, which is unique to us, is the transition of the electoral right from one decision-making body to another. If Parliament does not get elected, the decision-making power will go to the electoral body in Estonia at the moment. That is not the case elsewhere, and in itself, once we have practiced, it is a bit like calling for help from the insolvency administrator. The Centre Party Group considers that the election of the President directly by the people meets the expectations of society and brings the people closer to the state, giving an additional opportunity to participate in important national decisions. It should not be feared that the president elected directly by the people without parliamentary mediation may have greater authority and maybe he will then be less willing to cooperate with Parliament, because his re-election will no longer depend on the will of the parliamentary groups. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are still thinking statesmanly, we should not be afraid of that! Nationally speaking, there must be no fear of any elected President, who will not hesitate to block the crack or populist laws imposed by the road roll tactics in Parliament. If the President of the Riigikogu with the mandate of the people exhorts more and better work and disciplines the legislator, then it is quite good for the health of our country. I am pleased that the Centre Party has not changed its position on the need for a direct election of the President. I assure you that the Centre Party does not approach this issue from the perspective of the electoralist, because the moment, also this year, is only a short episode, but Estonian society is indigenous. I went through the draft and I found one unfortunate mistake. The proposed draft contains point 6 which needs to be corrected. It states that the implementation of the Act does not entail any additional expenditure from the state budget. This, of course, is imprecise. Elections always involve expenses. Thank you for your attention and I am ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U12	Dear waitress, The current reaction was, of course, expected. Eleventh time we are discussing this proposal, and I don't think the coalition would recommend asking you any questions. How would you assess this situation? It is proposed that the election of the President be given to the people, but a part of the Riigikogu does not wish to discuss it in public. As a historian, can you tell me this is a symptom of some silent era? What could it be that the coalition wants to keep this whole thing quiet?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U13	The question was very good, on the one hand, to give another speech. On the other hand, however, it is not addressed to me. I have no record of the extent to which the coalition ambassadors want to come along. The absence of questions does not always mean that you are numbly or rigidly opposed. I think there are debates and other debates ahead.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U14	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U15	Good performer, how do you feel about the recent public gathering and the opinion that the people do not want the President to be directly elected?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U16	I have great sympathy for the public assembly, because it is one of those tiny stimulators that, if necessary, pricks a little bit with the little buffet of state power. At the same time, I would advise you once again to think carefully about the principles that President Toomas Hendrik Ilves has emphasised in this Chamber and in the speech of the Republic's anniversary. He has stressed that the Riigikogu is not a constitutional institution. He doesn't make decisions, he's more of an idea generator who raises problems. Solutions must be sought by the Riigikogu. I'm sure it is. With regard specifically to the mechanism for the birth of the proposals of the Riigikogu, the direct election of the President was quite popular in the Internet responses that we were able to see. The Riigikogu is not a legislative body, it is possible to influence its proposals, to come up with one or the other. A very interesting comment on this very idea of direct electing the President had been made online. Someone intrigued the community explained how it was. The idea of directly electing the president was put forward. The board says, "Oh, yeah, that's a good idea! ' Someone says, 'Then an evil bogeyman will be president. ' Everyone says, 'Oh-oh! Who? Where? No, then we won't! ' The Riigikogu must be regarded as a generator of ideas, not as a maker of the work for the Riigikogu. In general, however, I am deeply convinced that this bill corresponds to the spirit of the people's assembly or, at all, of the residual base process. If this kind of law had been adopted earlier, the public assembly would need to put less pressure on us to force us to work. This is my understanding of the proposals and spirit of the people's assembly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U17	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U18	Good waitress! You mentioned quite a number of European countries where the President is directly elected. Do you also have at hand the analysis of the powers of the President in these countries? Where is he head of executive power and where is he not? You do not want to change the authority of the President with this draft, but where would Estonia position among these countries with the powers of its President?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U19	This analysis has been repeated and has been discussed in previous discussions. Estonia was, is and will remain a state with a parliamentary power mechanism. In a number of countries, even recently transferred to the Czech Republic or Finland, there is a president with different functions, not to mention France. I did not want to dwell on this once again for a very simple reason: we really do not intend to start whitening this law or to change our parliamentary tradition. This was highlighted in 2005, and I am also emphasising this here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U20	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U21	Good colleague! Please tell me if you have discussed this issue when drafting this bill, that Estonia needs a reform of the administration in general, reform of the state administration. Maybe we don't need a president at all if we don't need an institution. A small state, perhaps the Chairman and Prime Minister of the Riigikogu could also perform his functions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U22	If we read the abs in political science, we'll find out what democracy is. Even in our classes of general education schools, there is talk about the mechanism of democracy, about the danger to the health of the country when decision-making is concentrated in the hands of too narrow a circle of people. This knowledge is likely to be among the truths of primary education. However, when you referred to what was said in the hallway about why the kingdom could not be declared in Estonia, some are favourite kingdoms, and the hint was that I was also a kingdomman, I would answer with a little parable. It's like this. One new rich man without tradition and family history asked the English lord: "This is a good lawn, is it difficult to do so? The answer was: " It is not difficult. You have to sow, roll, water and trim. " In case of a rich man, he asked: " Oh, is this long to be done? ' 'It won't be long, so for a few hundred years,' was the answer. Kingdoms that were normal in their time can be justified today only if they have centuries of traditions that society knows and respects. In Estonia, even the Riigikogu cannot impose it with its own decision, that we now have such traditions. That's not gonna work for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U23	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U24	Honourable Professor! You compared the vote and the on-line gallup in your response. You said that it was possible to influence the opinion of the people's assembly in the debate process and therefore you might not believe it. You assured me that the people actually wanted the opposite. Are you saying that influencing the results of the on-line gallups is out of the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U25	No, it's definitely not. I actually stressed another aspect. In general, the Riigikogu is not considered to be a legislative body or a constitutional institution of the state, but to be a body that raises problems, on the basis of the conscience of the people. Unfortunately, there are still two sides to the assessment of social processes. Sometimes, however, we get a little new information about the subject we are assessing, but we learn a lot about the evaluator, his situation, his thoughts and wishes. Sometimes it happens that politics is a game where you cannot move forward by one move, but you have to look at various impacts, aftereffects and other things. The population was concerned that the ability of the people to participate was not enough. The main message is that we must act on our own, not begin to appreciate whether the good idea said by the public assembly or by anyone on the market is of legislative weight or not. That was my point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U26	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U27	I generally like a system where a public mandate is proportionate to the tasks assigned to the post, i.e. in other ways, in proportion to the powers that can be exercised by the post through the performance of these tasks. Let's say the president gets a direct mandate from the people. In terms of post office, this would perhaps be the strongest mandate in Estonia at all. However, his duties remain relatively limited, much of which is representational. Compared, for example, to the Prime Minister, who does not receive a direct mandate from the people, the President's chance of really directing politics is certainly much smaller. How do you feel that the expectations of the people in this regard could, if the President was directly elected, increase unduly much?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U28	We have a pretty interesting intellectual debate here! I'm sure every update will make a difference. We remember this fine comparison of how a butterfly movement somewhere far away on the South American continent can launch extensive processes in Europe. The impact of this step would certainly not be very great. The President is authoritative among the people; he is considered to be the guarantor of the Constitution, who has the right to monitor and monitor legislation, and there is no failure. It has become a basic truth among the people. True, sometimes there is fear, nor, in the current system, does the President have a little bit of tooth-toothed, but his re-election depends on the political groups in Parliament. Perhaps, because of the current system, the President is a little toothless when some demagogic or populist law is pushed through by a roll of road? If this legislative amendment gives the President the opportunity to carry out his constitutional duties more boldly and clearly, there can be nothing wrong with it. And even if there is a certain healthy competition, which works better, whether Parliament or the President, whether Parliament is acting in a high-quality manner, or whether the President has to correct his mistakes like a schoolteacher, there is nothing wrong with that either.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U29	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U30	Good waitress! I ask you this: why do you think politicians think they are smarter than the people, and why do politicians fear the opinion of the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U31	That was a pear! I do not think that everything in the world goes on the basis of absolute categories, that there are categories of 'all politicians' and 'all the people'. There are certainly some politicians who think they are smarter than others, and there are also those who think that perhaps they are not smarter than others. In view of parliamentary rhetoric, the verbatim reports show that the oppressive majority of MEPs speak of representing the will of their constituents. I would very much like this to be the case, and it will continue to be so that it will not be forgotten even during the emotional moments of violent disputes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U32	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U33	Dear waitress, I have never understood the rumors that the President has little function in direct election. If you look at Article 78 (6) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, it says that the President declares laws. He has the right to announce them and not to announce them, so he has the opportunity to participate very actively in shaping Estonian politics in all areas. He has so much competence that if he uses it badly, it would seem that it is too much. Can you comment on that? Why is it always said that he has very little power?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U34	In fact, it is a further development of a wise and right thought. It is emphasised that we have a parliamentary republic. This means that the main burden of legislation has been placed on Parliament's shoulders. Compared, for example, to the presidential system, where the President also exercises executive power, our President has less power. It's just an exaggeration of one comparison. The President of Estonia has just as many functions and to the extent that the rest of the system is compatible with the Constitution. On purely emotional soil, I can assure you that I, too, do not think that our president should look at the ceiling all day and wait for work. He has many functions and our history shows that the Estonian presidents have carried out their duties just as much as the law provides. In the field of foreign policy, there have been other cases of stronger expression, in cooperation with the legislative and executive authorities, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U35	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U36	Honourable waitress! My question comes from the previous one. That really surprised me. Do the initiators really believe that the President of Estonia has the right to declare laws or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U37	You mean the initiators of the bill? I have not said this; this statement sounded on one question and, unfortunately, the questioner cannot answer you. That wasn't my argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U38	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U39	Good waitress! You answered very nicely with the story of the English lord on one side of my question concerning the election of the president. But now the other half of this peasant issue. Does the Centre Party accept this bill as a first step in the implementation of our state and administrative reform? Or is it simply one of the solo stages that everything is limited to, and the reform of the state and administrative reform are not to be dealt with in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U40	I remember a long-standing conversation with my colleague, Lembit Kaljuvee, during which we reached an extremely banal but charming conclusion. The Riigikogu is not about adopting one law or another, but about legislation. Laws should not be like swans, pikes and cancers, but should harmonise with each other and ensure a comprehensive state order. Actually, everyone in this hall knows that. There is a very wise sentence about global problems. It has been said that they work globally, but all the problems that cause them can still be solved on the ground, each by one. There would certainly be one concrete step in the draft, which would not stop the legislator's work in improving the Estonian state. However, I can assure you that there is no plan behind the draft that, after the adoption of this law, we will declare a presidential republic. I'm sure that's not the point of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U41	Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U42	Good waitress, thank you for your explanation. I believe that the legal argument on this draft will certainly be put forward by this co-rapporteur. But I'm still going to ask you more specifically. Have you not thought that if the subject of direct election of the President were to change the constitution, perhaps the entire competence of the President would be reviewed and steps taken to make the Estonian parliamentary republic a presidential republic where the President would be the main decision-maker and also the head of the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U43	Ladies and gentlemen know very well that there are two things: there are politics and there are political technologies. If I need to bounce back any bill, I'll always tell you why you've taken such a small piece or such a big one. This is an evergreen argument that can always be used if the whole world is not made better. In this case, the adoption of this draft as a law in no way precludes Parliament from continuing to work and presenting fruitful ideas. However, such a major change as you, a good colleague, have now proposed, i.e. the transition to a presidential country will require much longer debate than is necessary for the current draft. That's the simple answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U44	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U45	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft, presented by the Central Party Group, was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Tuesday 26 March. Members of the Commission were present, and Mrs Merle Põld, adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, was invited to the sitting. At the meeting, Mr Priit Toobal, the representative of the initiators, presented the requests of the initiators. He summarised what was requested by the initiation of the draft and briefly presented its content. Merle Põld then presented the position of the Government of the Republic. The government's position is negative. The government sees a number of problems here that were presented to the Commission, they are also known to you. During the ensuing negotiations, the members of the Commission expressed a wide range of views, questions and discussions. At the end of the Commission meeting, it was decided unanimously to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session by 11 April. The draft was also proposed to be rejected by 6 votes to 2 with 3 abstentions. The rapporteur was appointed before you, and this was decided unanimously. This was the course of the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U46	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U47	Good waitress! Can you tell me what these basic arguments were so that it would not be wise to adopt this bill as a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U48	It has already been said here why this bill does not fit in our terms. It has also been pointed out that the test has already been carried out 11 times and, for various reasons, the proposal has always been rejected. We rely on the assumption that it is stated in our constitution that Estonia is a parliamentary republic where the fullness of the legislative power belongs to Parliament and the executive power belongs to the government. By directly electing the President of the Republic, we would give one single institution the mandate of the strongest nation and that would give the Head of State an opportunity or would tempt the realisation of this mandate. However, when we look at the competence of the President of the Republic in the Constitution, we see that it is representative competence, the competence of procedural steps and a few more special competences. By direct selection, we are creating a tension between a strong mandate and a limited competence. We don't need that kind of tension, we don't need the potential conflict threat. Nor does the Constitution foresee such a thing. In principle, this is possible, but on the basis of the ideology of the Constitution, I see no justification or need.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U49	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U50	Dear waitress, This is a very weighty, very serious bill, and today we have to press the green or red button in this Chamber. Two types of proceedings are common practice in committees. One is such a very common way that the draft is discussed and sent to the hall. The second is a profoundly substantive approach, with the involvement of the institutions involved in the debate, debate, analysis, debate. How emotional was this debate in the Commission? How seriously was this subject discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U51	There was a substantive debate in the Commission. I can't define it, was it emotional or very long and thorough. This was a normal debate, and the members of the Commission who have been in previous formations recalled earlier drafts and the way in which they were dealt with. As the subject was familiar and negotiated several times, we did not go too far into it. Once again, this change would create unnecessary tension. However, we admitted that the procedure for electing the President of the Republic needed further development. The procedure is in the way of time. It should be designed to make the public more aware of the matter and to participate more in the election of the President. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is facing an analysis of electoral laws. This is partly due to the initiative of the people's assembly, but also on the basis of the proposals of those who respond to the Commission's own call. Obviously, the procedure for electing the President of the Republic should also be reviewed in order to complement it, improve it and make it closer to the people. In general, however, we have ahead of us the current constitution, and I do not see the possibility of changing it in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U52	Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good performer! I am asking a question that probably was not discussed in the Commission, but it would be interesting to hear your opinion as a well-known politician and an experienced lawyer and a lawyer. Many politicians in the current government coalition have been in favour of direct presidential election in previous discussions, as confirmed by verbatim reports and votes. That is why my question is this: if, at present, there were no popular leader in active politics such as Edgar Savisaar, who has collected 10000, 20000, 30000, 40000 votes in the votes, could the attitude of coalition politicians to the presidential election be different?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U54	I cannot answer the question about other people's preferences or attitudes. I don't see any connection here with specific individuals. It is still an attitude towards the constitution we have. Aadu Black was talking about the English lawn before, I can give you an example like this. When the President of China was once asked what he thought about the Great French Revolution, he thought a little bit and shook his head to say what its results were. If we've practiced such a procedure for electing the President of the Republic for two decades, maybe it's too early to tell whether it's good or bad. That is why I prefer to leave it the way it is now. So far, the system has worked. To claim that we have something wrong in the country for the reason that the people have not been able to choose the president ♪ I am not sure that there is a basis for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U55	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U56	Good waitress! In one of your answers, you said that it would create excessive tensions if the President, elected by the people, received a strong mandate. But the main rapporteur gave a number of examples, and you also know that there are several parliamentary republics in Europe where the President is elected by the people. Perhaps you can tell me what these terrible tensions are there? I haven't noticed them, but maybe I haven't been following them very closely. What are these great tensions in these countries? If they are not there, why assume that we in Estonia are such Aboriginals that we cannot live without tension if the President is directly elected?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U57	I do not know which parliamentary states, where the President is directly elected, you meant. There are clearly presidential states, there are semi-president states and there are parliamentary states. Each country has its own history and its own traditions. The President shall be a single institution. Parliament is a collegial body where there is a struggle for ideas, where debate is held and, ultimately, the most appropriate result is reached. Personally, I do not believe that one person, although best and chosen by the people, could be wiser than a collective body. But suppose we give the strongest mandate in Estonia to one person. If we are based on the Constitution, what are his chances of shaping Estonia's life? Paragraph 78 contains 20 points in which the terms of reference of the President of the Republic are stated. He represents the country in international relations, appoints and calls back ambassadors, announces extraordinary elections to the Riigikogu, etc. It also initiates the amendment of the Constitution. That's the only thing he can initiate. According to our constitution, the President of the Republic is not a person who can instruct the Government of the Republic and Parliament that this matter must be done or that it must not be done. Before, there was talk of declaring the law. They can indeed be declared by the President of the Republic, it is his duty, but without being declared he can only abandon the law if it is contrary to the Constitution, not simply for political reasons. These things have been discussed in our current constitutional practice. If we rely on the assumption that the President of the Republic should listen to the concerns of the people and take any steps, these steps are provided for in the procedure in the Constitution. They do not include day-to-day policy-making or such. This is likely to cause tension, and it is reasonable to avoid it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U58	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U59	Good colleague! I'm afraid my question gets a little personal, but it's not malicious. In order to understand more deeply, I ask you this. All future presidents of the Republic of Estonia are known to us, at least we believe it. One of them is most likely to come from this very hall of the Riigikogu. Personally, I cannot imagine that if the people decide to choose this is quite likely to be president, for example Rait Maruse, who is known as a prominent lawyer, a person who thinks more widely and nationally, so that he starts harassing someone in some way. Or that, for example, Eiki Nestor, whose parliamentary work is rich and who is a convinced defender of parliamentarianism, would harass Parliament and demand functions that are not intended for it. And the third thing I do not believe is that the Estonian people do not understand things. Our people are the faith of education. If you tell people that the president has these roles, they'll understand. Overwhelm my suspicions!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U60	I reject the first doubt with the assurance that I will never be a presidential candidate, so don't worry about it. As far as the substance of your question is concerned, if I have understood it correctly, I will say that the President can become a prisoner of his mandate if I can so easily express myself. The people chose the president and it is justified to ask: "We chose him, why doesn't he do anything? Why does he sit with his great privileges and his separate staff and do nothing? This is how the President is concerned that perhaps something really needs to be done. But if we look at what the Constitution allows him to do, we'll see it's not much. This is something that also depends on the personality. We don't know who this person might be, and whether he's trying to stretch the boundaries of the Constitution, or whether he's going to be the lightning rod of the people's resentment, with his hands bent: you chose me directly, but I'm a prisoner of this order and I have to act within this order, I can't violate the Constitution. It's a possible tension point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U61	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U62	Honourable performer! I have to say, you don't have to be so surprised. Aadu Black didn't have an unexpected position, because before the last presidential elections, your name went through the media as a candidate. That's one. Point 2: You said that the presidential election system has worked very well. I don't think it worked very well. Let's just think about these black election campaigns. And even if there was a fight between Arnold Rüütel and Lennart Meri, it's pretty ugly to remember. I don't think everything has gone smoothly at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U63	Was it more of a line or a question? But it is a characteristic of democracy that there is a struggle for opinions and ideas. Whether it is beautiful or less beautiful is already a question of our traditions, culture and education, but the struggle between different personalities, ideologies, values is a natural part of democracy. That's what democracy is for.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U64	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U65	Good waitress! You said that in the case of a directly elected president, the people might have an unreasonable expectation that they would do something. In my opinion, the question is also asked now that the President has been elected in Parliament, why he is not doing anything. You said that our constitution does not allow the President to give Parliament or the executive authority guidelines or proposals, nor can he initiate draft laws. But two days ago, the President presented a clear political guideline to Parliament to take the proposals of the people's assembly seriously. In your opinion, as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, did the President violate the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U66	When I read § 78 of the Constitution, it only states that the President of the Republic will initiate the amendment of the Constitution. He is not entitled to initiate any other law. However, it was not even the initiation of the law. But indeed, in my opinion, the President of the Republic walked on the verge of his jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U67	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U68	Good waitress! I too recall 1992 when the Knight received 41% of the votes from the people and the Meri 29%. Of course, this could not be the case, and things were arranged in the Riigikogu as they were supposed to. In fact, most of the countries of the European Union in which the President is elected by the people of 13, Aadu Must read this list here in advance, are parliamentary republics. Ten of them are parliamentary republics. And there's quite a lot of positives to support direct dialing. People could be more involved and the question of the decisive influence of party backrooms would fall away. Why would you still prefer his appointment to elect a president?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U69	First of all, I say that it is not right to state that the people will not participate at all in the election of the President of the Republic. The members of the Riigikogu, including you, have been elected by the people. The people have also elected members of the electoral body, representatives of local governments. To say that the people have been left out of it, therefore, is not accurate. With regard to the experiences of other European countries, each has its own constitution and constitutional order. All the functions that their president will perform are clearly stated. If you look at it in a very general way, in countries where power is concentrated in the hands of one person, problems are greater than in countries where there is less concentration of political power in the hands of one person. That was also the subject of the Commission. The Czechs, even the same Czech example, were in some trouble with their previous President. There are other examples here, even from Latin America, but this is not today's subject. Once again: our system has worked and provided Estonia with a stable democracy. We may be less satisfied with this in some nuances of everyday life, but it has worked. We don't have to cause ourselves any more problems by changing it. I agree that maybe there will be a time when we should unravel the Constitution as a whole, rake over it and look freshly at what things are going to be in the way of time and what can be done better. However, it would probably be premature to amend only one provision in this respect at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U70	Good colleague! You used the words 'Construction of the Constitution' in your reply, and I believe you are familiar with everything that relates to our constitution. In view of the fact that the Constitution is more than 20 years old, I would like to ask you whether, in recent years, lawyers and scientists have discussed the current constitutional design at a higher level. And when it's done, where can you read about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U71	I guess we've been talking about this the whole time the Constitution has been in place. I even admit that when I applied for your membership, one of my pre-election ideas was that maybe it's time to critically review the current constitution. Not so much with regard to its fundamental values, but with regard to individual norms, make the Constitution more systematic, more consistent with today's conditions. Especially because Estonia is now a member of the European Union and a lot of legislation comes through it, but our constitution does not de facto reflect this situation, except for a general clause which gives basically unlimited competence. I do not think that it is quite right that the Constitution does not take such a situation into account in a constitutionally, formalised way. When the Constitution was adopted, no one could even dream of or become a European Union. No one could count on what the European Community could mean in 20 years' time, where we are now. So, according to my quite deep conviction, the moment will come when we will review our constitution. We do not correct its fundamental values and principles, they are justified, but a few things need to be adjusted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U72	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U73	Honourable waitress! The main argument of the Government of the Republic against this bill is that it has not been discussed enough. However, this has been discussed since 1993 and the draft has been submitted 11 times, as has been the case today. How serious do you think this argument against the Government of the Republic is?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U74	The fact that this has not been discussed is not a serious argument. This idea has been discussed many times. But let's ask why it's been discussed a lot. It has been discussed because this topic matters to the people and it is very easy for the people to like, to seek popularity, etc. That's one side of it. However, we must also consider the consequences of this step. It is my constitutional task as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and our collective duty as legislator, to think about the consequences of every step, not just that we have to listen to what the people perhaps want in their lack of information and incompetence.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U75	I'm sure he will! How do we fill somebody's political power? For me, political power still depends on how many people are behind you. If we choose the President of the Republic directly in a referendum, that is the number of people behind his power. This power is legitimate, it can search for output, and it can also be used to realise political will. But if it has the framework of a constitution that clearly provides for representative and procedural functions, then it is not possible to realise the political mandate in the way that democracy might need to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U76	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U77	Good waitress! In today's debate, we are constantly talking about whether the people want to be directly elected or not. Wouldn't it be best to announce a referendum and put to the vote different options: current, intermediate and direct selection? That way we can find out what our voters want.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U78	Yeah, that would be one way. Only whether or not to put a question to a referendum, the same Riigikogu decides here. It is part of parliamentary democracy. So that's what we have to decide. If at least 51 of us decide that by consensus, we will.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U79	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U80	Honourable waitress! It is proposed by the authors of the draft act that the President should be elected directly, but without increasing his powers. However, I understand from these questions that they have the hope that the President so elected will use the current powers more courageously, for example, by declaring laws or not by declaring them not so much according to the Constitution as by whether he likes them or not. He is most likely to lose his grip on the Supreme Court. Who has been deceived, the voters, the President, or both?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U81	It requires such a black and white answer, but I think that there might be no one quite deceived, but if expectations are very high, there may be bitterness. There's a danger. It is the balance of powers that keeps the country stable. The legislator makes the decision, the President analyses its constitutionality, the judicial authority makes its decision, so we keep our state machine in the middle of the road. When we look back at the constitutional supervision, in the 1990s the constitutional supervision initiated by the President of the Republic was considerably more. At the time, it was also understandable. Statehood wanted to build up and shape state law practice, and borders had to be discussed and clarified more or less. Now this need has come to an end, and I see little reason to re-initiate this practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U82	I'm sorry, I didn't understand the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U83	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 378 at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the commission to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 41 members of the Riigikogu voted against, with 18.9 abstentions. The draft Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, initiated by the Riigikogu members Priit Toobali, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi, Ester Tuiksoo, Mailis Repsi, Aivar Riisalu, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Heimar Leng, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Lauri Laas, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Tarmo Tamme, Olga Sõtnik, Kalev Kalso, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Eldar Efendijev, Kadri Simson and Jüri Ratas has been rejected at first reading and dropped from the proceedings. Dear colleagues, the second item has been dealt with. Today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 11.11.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U84	Mr President of the Commission. In the light of the draft we have tabled, it is difficult to claim that the elected President of the people will have more political power than the elected President of the Riigikogu. Or do you think otherwise?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U85	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U86	Tarmo Tamm, please repeat your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U87	On the basis of the draft we have tabled, it cannot be argued that the elected President of the people will have more political power than the elected President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U88	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U89	Good waitress! I am asking about the electoral arrangements in force in Estonia, after all, this is completely unique in Europe. Of the twenty European countries in which the President is elected, either the people will elect the President directly, as we request with this draft, or the Head of State will elect Parliament. Such a system that if Parliament fails to do its work in the first round, it will be elected in two rounds, i.e. the election will go to the electoral body, none of the 20 European countries in which the President exists. Do you think this unique system has justified itself? Is that practical?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U90	Each country chooses its own procedures, and if Estonia has found that such a procedure could be suitable for us, it is our decision. We have to respect that. It was approved by the people when the constitution was adopted, and we must take this into account. But this system is unique in Europe, yes, it is true. However, Europe's countries have different cultural backgrounds; there are also different legal traditions and political practices. If we look at America, for example, the picture on this continent is different. In the United States, the people don't choose the President directly, the voters are elected, and the voters choose the President. This system is somehow similar to ours. There is no clear solution. Your ideas as a whole, I basically do not deny. It is also possible to choose the President directly, but then we should review section 78 a little in order to mitigate the potential contradiction between this mandate and the competences.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-11_U91	Valeri Korb, please!
