ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-24_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the second Thursday session of the second working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-24_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats have a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. On 13 December last year, the government decided not to support the European Commission's initiative to introduce gender quotas for board members of stock exchange companies. In November last year, the European Commission approved a draft directive that requires 30% of women in company councils by 2015 and at least 40% by 2020. This directive applies to listed companies with more than 250 employees and an annual turnover of more than EUR 50 million. This initiative, by the way, comes from the liberal camp of the European Parliament, the political family of the Reform Party. The government's steps are in no way in line with the Gender Equality Act, which obliges public authorities to systematically and purposefully promote gender balance. That is why we are asking Prime Minister Andrus Ansiip whether the government's frightened 'no', or ignorant decision, was the result of outdated stereotypic views on the role of women or of rational arguments. We also ask the Prime Minister to present the reasons behind the government's decision. We would like to know that this scientific study is based on opposition to 40% of the requirement, i.e. better women's involvement in leadership. The liberals of Europe have argued that self-regulation will take another 40 years before women get a balanced representation on the boards of companies. We want to know what, in the opinion of the government led by the Estonian Liberals, we need to do to increase equality in Europe. We also want to know from the Head of Government what has prevented him from choosing ministers on the basis of equal representation of both sexes and why the government has not appointed women to the boards of state-owned companies. I would like answers to these questions, along with 13 social democrat colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-24_U3	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. According to our Home and Working Procedures Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further processing. Let's go to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts, the Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas and the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Good fellows, we'll do a presence check. 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 21.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-24_U4	Let us move on to today's agenda items. The first item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Food Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Rural Affairs Committee, Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-24_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Commission discussed a draft law amending the Food Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, in 322 s. a January 15th. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. Two amendments had been prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture. The Ministry of Agriculture was represented on the Commission by Diana Rammul, Adviser to the Legal Department, and Martin Minjayev, Head of the Food Safety Department. The representatives of the Ministry explained the amendments and answered the questions raised by the members of the Commission. It was decided by the Commission that § 1 (4) of the draft law is amended and amended on the basis of that provision and worded as follows: "The flavouring within the meaning of this Act is the product provided for in Article 3 (2) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 1334/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on flavourings and certain food ingredients with flavouring properties for use in and on foods and amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1601/91, Regulations (EC) No 2232/96 and (EC) No 110/2008 and Directive 2000/13/EC (OJ L354, 31.12.2008, p. 34 ' Point 5 of the draft is also amended and Article 17 (11) is added as follows: 'The flavouring is authorised for use in food in accordance with the requirements laid down in Regulation (EC) No 1334/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council. ' To clarify, the draft has now amended § 17 of the Food Act in such a way that paragraph 1 provides for the authorisation of flavourings in food and paragraph 11 of the Annex provides for the definition of flavouring substances. However, according to the structure of the current food law, the term and then the use of substances should be defined first. The decision was thus decided and the Commission supported this decision in a consensual manner. As a commission responsible for rural development, the Rural Commission proposes that the second reading of the draft law amending the Food Act be stopped.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-24_U6	Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-24_U7	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress, good colleague! This is not quite a second-reading issue, but I still think it might be useful if you briefly repeat the purpose and content of the draft once again.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-24_U8	The purpose of the draft, as I have already reported, is to replace two points: the definition is brought forward and the explanation is then another point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-24_U9	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-24_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, According to the European Union Directive, can food additives (i mean preservatives etc.) be added more than the existing standards allowed in Estonia? Which standards are more liberal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-24_U11	The European Union has common requirements for all e-substances that can be incorporated into food by food industries and food manufacturers. There is no exception for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-24_U12	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Two amendments to draft 322 have been received, both from the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. The position of the lead committee after discussion and discussion is such that the second reading should be completed. The second reading is closed and the first item is also dealt with. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.08 a.m.
