ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the 14th working week Thursday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. No calls, let's go to the messages. Tomorrow, 17 May, the final forum of the ELO Youth Parliament will take place in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. In this regard, I ask you to remove your personal belongings from the tables! Now, let's do the presence check. 67 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, there is no 34.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U2	Let us move on to today's agenda items. The first item is the first reading of the draft law supplementing § 81 of the State Assets Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Evgeni Ossinovski, member of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the draft Group of the Social Democratic Party, which we wish to supplement the provisions of the State Property Act concerning the procedure for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of a legal person with public participation. According to current practice, the Riigikogu's plenary assembly appoints members of the legal person's council when provided for by a special law. This is done primarily for legal persons governed by public law, for example, the Riigikogu appoints members of the National Opera, Development Fund and National Broadcasting Council, and the Riigikogu decides to appoint members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. In addition, the Riigikogu commission gives its consent to the appointment of the heads of key state institutions (e.g. Police and Border Guard Board and kapo). In all other cases, the members of the Supervisory Board of a State-owned legal entity shall be appointed collectively by the Minister or by the Government. The public has often called into question the impartiality of the executive in the appointment of the members of the board, blaming the political leadership not to appoint the most qualified people in the field to the councils, but either to create additional party-political jobs or to reward the sponsors of the party. I am not assessing the extent to which this fear corresponds to reality, but democratic administration must not only be honest, but it must also seem honest.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U4	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. Good fellows, there's a lot of noise from every corner of the hall. I beg that we honor the waitress and the listeners!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U5	Recently, the Riigikogu drew attention to this fact, where the members of the Riigikogu were both members of the company councils and, more generally, the representation of the state in legal persons and the avoidance of abuse of executive power. With the draft, we are proposing a solution to make the process of appointing members of the Council more transparent. According to the draft, in order to appoint a member of the supervisory board of each legal person with public participation, the minister must be a company such as Estonian Air or Eesti Energia or a foundation such as a puppet theatre, with the consent of the relevant committee of the Riigikogu. If consent is not received, the executive must propose a new candidate for a member of the Governing Council. The legal persons with public participation are state assets. In a democratic country, public property is ultimately owned by the people, and its governance is delegated to representatives of the people. According to the State Assets Act, state assets must be managed in a purposeful, rational, sustainable and prudent manner. In order to achieve this objective and thereby better protect the interests of citizens in the management of state assets, it is, in my opinion, essential that the Riigikogu have the right to vote in the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of a legal person with public participation. This will ensure a broad debate on the appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board, which is possible in Parliament, and an assessment of the suitability of the candidate, which will in turn increase the competence of the members of the Supervisory Board and the quality of their decisions. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip recently said in the Riigikogu, answering the question of the election of the Head of the PBGB, that the hearing of the Riigikogu commission in the election of the governing body is one of the fundamental values of parliamentary democracy. The same conviction has been shared by the President of the Republic, who has said that people who do not have the approval of the Riigikogu commission should not be appointed as heads of institutions that are important to the state. I believe that this logic should apply not only to the election of the leaders of important public authorities, but should extend to the election of the directors of all legal entities with public participation. In response to the Government of the Republic's opinion on this draft, I would like to stress that the draft does not assume the functions of the legislative authority, i.e. the Riigikogu. The substantive management of the area of legal persons with public participation remains the responsibility of the Government, as provided for by the Constitution. In the event that the draft act enters into force, the Minister must also be the one who proposes a candidate for a member of the Council and finally appoints an executive member. In addition, only the obligation to consult the Riigikogu is required, so that the legislator has an overview of the governance of state assets and a say when the executive power makes strategic changes in the management of state assets. By the way, the OECD's guidelines on the governance and management of public undertakings underline that public undertakings must report through the executive to the legitimate representatives of the public, i.e. to Parliament and to it, with no dilution in the responsibility of companies towards the parliament in the form of a division in the form of an executive. In other words, we should not have an occasional situation where a company tells Parliament that it is not responsible, because some decision was made according to the Minister's instructions, and the Minister says that the company is an autonomous entity operating under the Commercial Code, which is responsible for its own actions. I believe that the coordination of the members of the Council in the committee, where there is a wider spectrum of political parties than the government, will enable Parliament to be more involved in the strategic decision-making of the principled public entities, which will affect not only these companies but the state of the state as a whole. Finally, I will respond to another objection from the government. The Government has put forward an argument that obtaining the consent of the Riigikogu committee will make the process of managing legal persons with public participation lengthy and rigid. Firstly, I believe that you agree with me that it is not fair to underestimate Parliament's ability to work. For example, we have been able to deal with the issues of financial assistance to the countries of the European Union in an operational manner and, if necessary, we have also gathered for additional plenary sessions. However, our draft, for example, would require an extraordinary meeting of only one committee during the summer. I think we can do this. Secondly, looking at some cases where a boiling-blood minister has immediately replaced the Foundation's leadership, for example, because one person did not appear at a meeting with the Minister on a day's notice or did not vote as the Minister wished, it seems to me that perhaps a peaceful parliamentary debate on the appointment of members of the Council would have been able to alleviate the tensions. In other words, strategic decisions should not always be rushed, and parliamentary debate may be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U6	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U7	Thank you. Good waitress! Can you tell me how many of the members of the Council that should then be heard in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U8	The representative of the Ministry of Finance stated that there are nearly 600 of them, if I am not mistaken, in this committee session, which you chaired and where this issue was discussed. However, I do not think it should be the conclusion made by the representative of the Ministry of Finance that the Commission must therefore start to appoint two members of the Council per day. It should be borne in mind that the majority of board members are appointed for several years, according to the Commercial Code as a general rule for a period of five years, perhaps for a slightly shorter period in public undertakings. It is clear that, in fact, there is not enough of these appointments to make the work work work too much for us. At the same time, I will bring a parallel, not entirely corresponding, but a parallel to the process taking place in the Committee on Foreign Affairs when the Committee on Foreign Affairs listens to the candidates of the Estonian ambassadors. This is done in blocks, several people at a time, which does not mean that each candidate is interviewed for several hours. But I think that this fundamental possibility that these Members will be heard by the committee is ultimately useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U9	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U10	Thank you. Good waitress! What, in your opinion, would happen if the Commission consistently rejected several candidates proposed by ministers? Should the mandate of the previous Council be extended or the opinion requested in a third place? How could this legal entity proceed in such a case?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U11	Thank you. That's a good question. I think that this draft has technical aspects that need further clarification. It's definitely one of them. I understand that fear theoretically. In practice, I think this is not a big problem, however, given that the political representation of the Riigikogu committees is such that there is also the majority of the coalition's representatives. So if the Minister really offers several consecutive candidates who are not suitable for the Riigikogu committee, then something has probably gone wrong in the fundamental mandate of this government. I think that, in practice, this risk is not so great, but I agree that this aspect should be technically clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U12	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U13	Thank you. Good waitress! In your opinion, does the draft blur responsibility for the management of state-owned companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U14	Thank you. No, absolutely not. In the Government's opinion, there was a point in how the Riigikogu would be held accountable when they had appointed the so-called bad members to the Council. Ultimately, governance of state assets is the responsibility of the executive. The Riigikogu listens to the Minister's proposal and the Minister or Government appoints these people. In accordance with the law, the members of the Council themselves are responsible; political responsibility is certainly the responsibility of the executive.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U15	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Kaja Kallas, Chairman of the Economic Commission!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U16	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this draft at the meeting on 6 May, which, in addition to the representative of the Social Democratic Party, was invited by Tarmo Carrots, Deputy Head of the Public Assets Department of the Ministry of Finance, who explained the views of the Government of the Republic on the draft. A number of issues were addressed, including the issue of responsibility already mentioned. The committee decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 16 May, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 30 May. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U17	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U18	Madame Kallas! In recent years, the Ministry of Culture has been actively engaged in setting up so-called private foundations from public cultural institutions. If the head of a state institution was at least protected by labour law, the founder, or minister, may be replaced on a daily basis and the head of the agency may be recalled, even without giving cause. The last ministers of culture have also actively exercised this right. This has been the case four times in the theatres: twice in the Russian Theatre, once in Ugala and once in the puppet theatre, and the new members of the council have generally been either ministry officials or ministerial party associates. Do you think that the draft we are dealing with will deprive the Minister of the opportunity to administer culture as I have just given examples?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U19	Thank you for your question. The draft also provides that the appointment of the Councils is to be led by the committees in these areas. In this case, it would probably be the Committee on Culture, not the Committee on Economic Affairs. Perhaps I am not the right person to comment on cultural issues, but I can comment on the operating mechanisms of state-owned companies. I believe that the appointment of boards of state-owned companies should also be based on good corporate governance practice, which states which activities should be carried out by the members of the board and the general meeting, in order to comply with generally accepted principles and to ensure that state-owned companies are well managed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U20	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U21	Thank you. Dear rapporteur, first of all, thank the Committee on Economic Affairs for a constructive debate. My question is motivated by the sound of the debate with my colleague Ossinovski. There was a problem, which would be the case if the Minister proposed a candidate with whom the Commission did not agree, i.e. this candidate was supposed to be inappropriate. Is this an alternative to the current situation in which the Minister himself appoints this inappropriate candidate and that is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U22	Thank you. I believe that the debate in the Riigikogu committee on the suitability of a member of the council would certainly make this process more transparent. As the initiators of the draft pointed out, the OECD has also pointed out in its guidelines that if the procedures for the appointment of board members were clear and understandable, it would certainly benefit primarily state-owned companies. But I still do. I think that people who do not go through the gauntlet of the Commission, if you could say so, or listening to the Commission, are not among the board members of current companies either.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U23	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U24	My second question is fundamental. In democratic countries with a market economy, there are two ways of operating with state-owned companies. We had the responsibility of the Council in the 1990s, the Minister had the right to change the Council in substance. Then the party called Res Publica created a new regime, the rights of the Minister towards the Council became considerably greater. Has the Commission discussed the possibility of going back to the old system where the members of the Council are responsible for everything that is going on with the skin and hair and the right of the Minister to impose anything on them is essentially non-existent?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U25	Thank you. There was no direct discussion of this issue in the Commission in the context of the debate on this draft, but we have discussed the country's policy of participation more broadly. It is clear that state-owned companies should operate and actually operate in the same way as private companies. They have a general meeting and a council. Such practice, where the board directly communicates with the general meeting bypassing the board, must certainly be condemned.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U26	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U27	Madame waitress! It sounded like the board members we're talking about are about 600. Estonia is generally small and everyone knows each other. You are the chairman of the Economic Commission. Suppose this bill is passed as a law. Would you really be interrogating the members of the Council proposed by the Minister for Economic Affairs in the Committee on Economic Affairs one at a time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U28	This is certainly the point of discussion on how this will take place in practice. However, as the initiator's representative said, the members of the Council will be appointed for quite a long time, they will not be exchanged all the time. It's more of an exception when they're exchanged. These members shall be appointed every four years or, exceptionally, earlier. I can't appreciate how much we're burdened and how this practice could develop. I don't think this situation should be too bad. If the Committee on Foreign Affairs listens to and gets along nicely, why should the Committee on Economic Affairs not do it? The initiator of the draft proposal has suggested that the Commission, which would listen to the candidates for membership of the councils, would be a committee in this area, for example, for the candidates of the councils of companies under the administration of the Ministry of the Environment to attend a meeting in the Committee on the Environment. If this burden had been spread among the committees, it should not be so great.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U29	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U30	Thank you. Good waitress! As we know, we currently have a legal problem, which has also been referred to by the Chancellor of Justice. Members of Parliament belong to boards of companies and are appointed by executive powers. It was not, however, during the procedure for this draft in the Commission that this draft could solve this legal problem and, as if, on the basis of the principles laid down in this draft, a Member of Parliament could be a member of the board of directors of that company?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U31	Thank you. The Chancellor of Justice currently in office does not think that it is a problem that members of the Riigikogu or politicians belong to the councils of these companies. I have also looked at the practice of other countries. In my opinion, it is wrong to contrast that politicians in these councils are somehow worse than representatives of companies. In fact, there are also politicians in other countries in these companies. It all comes down to what the objectives of the company are. For example, in Norway and Finland, these companies are also grouped under the same objective. If the company's objective is not commercial, or is not created purely for business purposes, but also has a strategic objective, it is said to be good if there are politicians in the Council, because they are better able to bear this objective in mind. I believe that an audit should be carried out in these companies, that it should be made clear what their objectives are, that they should be made clear and that, on this basis, the competent members of the Council should be sought. I believe that there are very different members in Parliament who have this competence. This is not an unambiguous problem; it cannot be taken in black and white.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U32	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U33	Thank you. I need to explain my point a little bit. I am not saying that politicians or Members are not qualified to be members of the board of companies because they lack competence. The main question, however, is that if the general meeting is a representative of the executive, who is in a higher role in the company's sense than a member of the supervisory board, who is a representative of the legislative power, there may be conflict of role. But was I right to understand that this was not the subject of discussion at the committee meeting in this form?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U34	This was not discussed at this meeting, but we have discussed it in general as participative policy discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U35	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U36	Thank you. Good waitress! Should the removal of a member of the Supervisory Board be discussed by the Riigikogu Committee when the Minister proposes it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U37	Thank you. Calling back the general meeting. If someone is called back, a new member of the Council will also be appointed, i.e. it will be discussed anyway, why a member of the Council was called back and why a new member will be appointed. I think these things are connected.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U38	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U39	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I understand there's a problem when the bill is born. As the experienced person and chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, can you say that we are doing quite well with all kinds of councils now and that this situation does not need to be reviewed, that all councils are good, that they work, that they are competent and that they can handle their affairs? How does the overall picture feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U40	Thank you. I have not carried out this audit, and I am not sure that I have the authority to carry out such an audit. But I will come back to the discussions on participatory policies. In fact, it should finally be possible to define specific objectives for companies and, on the basis of these objectives, to examine whether the members of the board of directors have the competence necessary to achieve this objective. I believe that the competence of all people has certainly been given due consideration, and these people are competent. I have no reason to doubt that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U41	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The point of the draft we are currently discussing is that the Minister, before a member of the Council is appointed, will refer the matter to the relevant committee for a position and only after a positive position has been obtained can that person be appointed as a member of the Council. Is it possible to reverse the fact that the committee that gave this agreement at some point would refer to the general meeting, the minister, with a proposal to recall this member of the board?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U43	This is the point of discussion. But even now, Riigikogu committees have the right to invite members of the council to the meeting of their committee, to ask questions to them and also to the general meeting, who is the minister in this case. I think these things are connected, and I don't think there's anything really new here, so that's not even possible right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U44	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U45	Thank you. Good waitress! Mr Laurson asked a very important question about the resignation of a member of the Supervisory Board by the general meeting. You replied that if a new member of the Council was to be appointed, the Commission would have to discuss this issue anyway. But what legal power does it have? When does a member of the Board who has been recalled lose his or her rights and duties as a member of the Supervisory Board? Does it have them until the Commission discusses them, or does it have them until the moment when the Commission appoints a new member? This thing is a little crazy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U46	Thank you for your question. This isn't confusing at all. A member of the Council is still appointed by the general meeting; he simply asks the Commission for an opinion on this. Therefore, recall and appointment are still within the competence of the general meeting. The general meeting shall be the holder of the participation. For each company, it is the Ministry in whose jurisdiction it is. Revocation and appointment shall take effect when the General Meeting, which shall be the Minister, does so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U47	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Good representatives of the political groups, if you wish, can negotiate. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Toomas Tõniste, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U48	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The IRL Group considers that this draft significantly blurs the responsibility for the management of state-owned companies. In a situation where the minister is in the role of the general meeting, but the members of the council essentially approve the committee of the Riigikogu and the minister retains only the role of the signatory of the decision, the general meeting cannot actually be held responsible. The separation of powers is seriously disrupted and liability is also dissipated. In a situation where the draft makes corporate governance ineffective, politicizes the formation of councils and disperses responsibility, the question arises as to what is the real purpose of this draft. Reading the bill gives the impression that this is a sneaky attempt by social democrats to create a back door for the nomination of members of the Riigikogu to the boards of state companies. [[Let's hear it.]] The intention to extend the rights of the relevant committee of the Riigikogu in the appointment of the members of the boards of legal persons referred to in the State Assets Act does not solve the substantive problem of whether a member of the Riigikogu may belong to the board of the state company and receive remuneration for it. The bill will create another jook scheme. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft act, the Social Democrats, of course, are talking about how their draft procedure brings more transparency to the management of state companies and reduces the risk of government manipulation. The debate about the membership of the members of the Riigikogu in the boards of companies of the state has taken place at a long time with varying intensity, but no concrete solution has been reached. As early as 2008, Chancellor of Justice Allar Jõks proposed that membership of the members of the Riigikogu should be prohibited, as this is contrary to the principle of incompatibility of the agencies laid down in the Constitution and to the principle of separation of powers. At the proposal of the President of the Riigikogu Ene Ergma, the question is once again on the Riigikogu's agenda. IRL's position on this matter has been specific: the membership of national company councils cannot be accepted, as this is contrary to the principle of separation of powers, obscures the limits of legislative and executive powers and leads to potential conflicts of interest. For these reasons, IRL MEPs do not belong to the second government coalition's successive boards of companies in the country. The board of directors of a company must not be a place of political debate. Political disputes must remain here in the Riigikogu and take other forms for this purpose. The company must be run by the company. These two things need to be kept firmly separate from each other. For state companies to be economically successful and efficient, they must be managed as any other company. In a state company where the minister performs the functions of the general meeting and the members of the supervisory board are among the members of the Riigikogu, you cannot be sure that the management model works effectively. Although Parliament is a collective body, the retention of the government depends on the trust of the majority of the members of the Riigikogu and essentially sits in the council as members of the Riigikogu by the superiors of the minister from the parliament. It is wrong to reduce the membership of the boards of the members of the Riigikogu to the question that if a person before becoming a member of the Riigikogu was capable and fit into the board of companies, why is he suddenly no longer fit in there? That is not the question. Many members of the Riigikogu have made progress in various areas of society. The reason why members of the Riigikogu should not do the work of a member of the company's board is, above all, a certain contradiction to their main task, i.e. the work of the legislator. The company's activities, as well as its work on the company's board, are essentially executive activities, the organisation of which is the responsibility of the government, not the Riigikogu, according to the principle of separation of powers. Similarly, the policy objectives of a particular person and the activities of some companies may conflict in substance. However, as a member of the supervisory board, the politician should rely primarily on the interests of the company, not on his election promise or any other such. As a concrete and simple solution, I see that the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu should be amended to make it impossible for a member of the Riigikogu, as a representative of the state, to belong to the council of a public-owned company. That would eliminate the conflict with the principle of separation of powers. The IRL Group will vote against the completion of the first reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U49	Thank you. Good fellows, once again, there's too much noise in the hall. I ask you to respect this debate. I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of the Riigikogu for a speech chair, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U50	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! In our small group, after this spontaneous applause, the idea of organising microphones so that when someone really talks stupidly, the microphone automatically shuts down. But the Chancellery of the Riigikogu will continue to think if it is possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. If you propose an amendment to the draft, which regulates the membership of the boards of the companies of the members of the Riigikogu in a different way than it is currently taking place, including by banning it, our group will support this proposal. If you submit your draft on this, we will support it. Somehow it would be necessary to get rid of all of these sometimes naive and stupid issues, which, in particular, have recently been presented very much on the basis of the practice of national companies. These apply to how to avoid mistakes that may arise because of the company's presence on the board, by the way, at the will of the general meeting, the very foolish people who ask, or clearly people with their own interests. Proposals have been made until some kind of insurance. In fact, the safest way to do that is not to assign these people there. However, I think that the Commission could seriously discuss the subject of the right and responsibility of the general meeting and the right and responsibility of this council. I have a feeling the earlier system worked better. It is now very difficult and difficult to say whether the general meeting gave the Council the most competent order or whether the Council acted independently. There was no such debate more than ten years ago, and the Council was responsible for everything. I remember there were often cases when the general meeting was told no. In short, the idea of the draft is to make it open and clear. The Minister, as a general meeting, maybe the situation is getting more complicated, in the sense that he needs to choose more carefully who he wants to refer to the Council. Hoping that the draft will be further processed, I will say once again that our group fully supports everything that limits the right of members of the Riigikogu to belong to the boards of companies. If such proposals come, we will certainly support them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U51	Thank you. Aivar Riisalu, representative of the Central Party Group of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U52	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, It is good that more and more drafts are coming to the Riigikogu Hall, which even call for discussions on the basis of ideas from the Chamber during the debate! As a person from private business, I dare say to you that this Soviet problem has been very strange since the beginning of time. In fact, the status of the council is funny. As a private entrepreneur, I can say that it is usually the case that the board sets itself up, it performs it, and when it has worked badly, it punishes itself for it. There's a council somewhere out there who's usually not even interested in understanding what's gonna happen to all of this. But this is a private-owned business, where the powers of the board of directors are substantive and the powers of the board are formal, because that is the will of the owner. The state cannot afford such a situation. Today it was painful to hear the speech of the representative of the IRL and the good comrade Toomas Tõniste. First of all, in the Commission, he didn't think what he thought on the remote today. When the talk about Soviet politicisation began on the IRL side, in a situation where the Riigikogu, for example, decided on the members of the council, I actually had to cry when I heard it. For the simple reason that, if there was any chance of confronting a minister, this place could be the Riigikogu. But as a practitioner and for a little longer than a few days in Parliament, I have to say, unfortunately, that the best people from political parties will still be ministers, who every Monday morning come to the political group and tell members of the Riigikogu, especially members of the coalition, what they have to do this week. IRL dreams of separation of powers, but such separation of powers that Juhan Parts comes from a group and says that boys, today is the case, but you are resisting him, unfortunately, does not exist. The fact that it does not exist is perfectly understandable from some country, because the responsibility of the Minister is very great and it is unreasonable to have a middle-minded politician as a minister. As a result, I have a warm and friendly recommendation for you, ladies and gentlemen. The Centre Party is not a party that would be afraid of the debate. I am of the opinion that ministers are currently running ministries like their small private limited companies: forbid, command, hang and shoot. As a result of the same separation of powers that IRL dreams about, there is no instrument in the Republic of Estonia that can reason with the Minister. Going personal, making stupid decisions, and then saying, "I don't know anything, the council decided. " If you say that the minister does not appoint his good acquaintances to the councils, or is based on the fact that there is no way to politicise the councils, it is a fairy tale that I last listened to thirty years ago when I read them to my little children and then listened to myself. As a result, dears, despite the attitude towards the initiators of the draft, I am of the opinion that it is important to discuss very seriously where this separation of powers is and how to actually achieve that the ministers do not govern us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U53	Thank you. I would like to ask Kaja Kallas, representative of the Reform Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U54	Ladies and gentlemen, When I listened to a good coalition partner's speech here, I unwittingly wondered whether the minister would appoint incompetent people to the councils. I vehemently defended the claim that this is not the case, but this speech made me doubt it. Maybe we should check it out. I wanted to mark another subject. Erkki Raasuke, who is involved in organizing participatory policies at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, has been on our commission. He was asked whether there was a problem with the members of the council in politicians or members of the Riigikogu. He said, "No, there's no problem with them, they're already very public, but there's more problems with other people who don't get in the public interest. The coalition partner here spoke of the appointment of ministerial superiors. I remember the joke that there's someone else in charge at home. If a Member's partner or a neighbour is appointed to the Council, is that not the appointment of a superior? Does this still serve this purpose? I am proposing to support this draft and to conclude the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U55	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 398 amendments. 5.15 p.m. on 30 May 2008. The first reading is closed and the first item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U56	Let's move on to the second item. The first reading of the draft law amending the State Assets Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group begins. Aivar Riisalu, member of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U57	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, This is a very laconical draft. The content of the draft provides that the remuneration of a member of the board of directors of a state company should not exceed EUR 6000 per month, i.e. the salary limit set for senior state officials in the Republic of Estonia. We have already tabled this draft several times. What's positive is that over this time, life has made adjustments here. I remember the first time I was a waitress for this draft, there were 12 companies, so there are six companies and foundations left today. Progress has been tangible! We are of the opinion that the companies we are talking about, especially Eesti Energia, Eesti Raudtee and the Port of Tallinn, are service institutions that must ensure that the Estonian economy and residents have a normal and competitive supply of electricity and that the Estonian business operates a normal railway connection and ports. Of course, these companies also include Estonian Air, which must provide us with a connection to the rest of the world. The rumors that these companies have to pay mystical wages because these companies are involved in international competition, and because of this, the managers of these companies are somehow of a special status, are right from somewhere in the country, but if we look at real life, we are often forced to admit other things. Two years it has been said that the most direct route of Chinese containers from the port of Ningbo to Russia goes through the port of Tallinn. I've had to listen to this story for two years. When I tried to say that this wasn't an adequate conversation, they told me I should see a doctor. But it has now become clear that the map has finally been viewed and it is understood that China will also be able to reach Russia much faster than through the port of Tallinn. This is an example of what international competition is all about. I say honestly and frankly that we do not think that this bill is made of stone, in the sense that nothing can be changed here. This could certainly be one of the subject of wider discussions. Strangely and sadly, the Centre Party has come to the aid of members of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, in particular Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, who have repeatedly said in the press that they are incomprehensible about the salaries of certain foundations and heads of state companies. Interestingly, if Parliament closes its ears to the statements made by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, does that mean that this situation is not normal? This should be primarily a signal to the coalition to do something about it, because we cannot ignore the government that we have appointed ourselves. We cannot ignore the members of the government that we respect. If Andrus Ansip is a prime minister who doesn't care how much his salary is, then I think that the responsibility of the Prime Minister, even the Minister of Finance and other key ministers, is much greater than that of the Chairman of the Management Board of RMK, whose main task is to cut down the forest quickly because people struggle at the door and want to buy it. Perhaps Andrus Ansipil has accumulated so many other incomes during his life that he can enjoy doing his job for the present salary. But I am saying that Parliament, as a higher authority, should still open this discussion and review more widely what is actually happening in Estonia. Unfortunately, the voice of the Central Party has been the voice of a shouter in the desert. I can wave here various articles published in the press, the authors of which are the aforementioned Minister of Finance and Prime Minister or Estonian business leaders, all of whom say very clearly that the leaders of state companies are not worthy of such an overcrowding. Unfortunately, all of this is also the voice of a shouter in the desert. However, it seems that this draft could be dealt with and this draft could once again, through the implementation of parliamentary culture, reach the conclusion result that we are creating a fair system in the country where the actual responsibility is sufficiently recognised and adequately assessed as the actual content of one or the other post. I think that would make sense. Otherwise, it is quite funny for society to hear ministers say that they do not understand, and Members of Parliament claim that they, in turn, do not understand what the ministers are saying. That's a bad sign. I think that this may lead to a strange perception in Estonian society, our people, whom we represent here, that Parliament is not hearing what the government is saying. But you could hear it and you should discuss it! I therefore think that the Centre Party has initiated a very good bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U58	Dear members of the Riigikogu, who we are all elected by the highest power, if you have any questions, please! Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U59	Thank you. Dear waitress, I will always listen to you with great interest. I would like to clarify the content of the draft. The first part of the bill states that the maximum amount to be paid should be EUR 6000 per month. However, it also considers that the draft is without prejudice to the possibility of paying additional fees to board members which, according to the current law, can be paid per year up to four months' salary, i.e. one third of the total fee may be in the form of a result or a premium. What's the final truth? Can this fee be EUR 6000 per month or even EUR 8000 per month with additional charges?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U60	We are still of the opinion that there is no point in nailing things to the wall when initiating any draft law, so there is no object for discussion. Perhaps during the parliamentary debate we will decide that this premium could be even higher. But we need to understand that the result could be described in the pay system. At present, the main reaction of society, as well as the reaction of our leading politicians, is linked to the fact that there are too many basic contractual charges that do not take account of the company's real results. I don't want to keep repeating here that the Estonian Air case still made a lot of people shrive their shoulders. That's why I'm saying the Centre Party doesn't want it to go down. We have proposed that, with good results, a four-month wage premium could be paid. Perhaps we will agree in the course of this draft procedure that we will pay 14 monthly wages in addition to the fact that, for example, the Estonian Railway or the Port of Tallinn will generate profits for us and give the state the opportunity to withdraw the dividend. Yeah, it's a discussion place. The hints of international competition and participation in it have unfortunately led us to a situation where the economic performance of both Estonian Railways and the Port of Tallinn is actually in decline, because diplomatic or whatever foreign policy reasons make Estonia's infrastructure somewhat ignored. We haven't been able to find a cure for it. Our fight for the survival of our airline is very fair, but at one point it may end with the European Union saying that we have made a rake and have granted unacceptable state aid, which means that this event will come to an end, i.e. the result will be zero. If the result is zero, I don't think we could pay any extra. The Centre Party has never taken the view that changes cannot be made during the debate. I think that the Reform Party should quite well remember our common rule when we were forced to abandon some of our very important principles, which we had repeated all along in the past. We did this to ensure that the balanced development of society is better ensured. Even now, I am saying that it is not necessary to say that this draft option is final, but it should be said that there is a need for change, or at least there is a forum for discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U61	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U62	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I may be even more interested in you than in Arto Aas, but I didn't quite understand what the real purpose of this bill was. What you said seemed to me like you didn't want to limit the pay of corporate leaders, you wanted to raise ministers' wages. If so, why haven't you come up with such a bill? Or are you going to make such an amendment if the draft remains in the process?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U63	I do not have the authority of the Centre Party Group to say this, but I think that the responsibility of ministers is certainly greater than that of the heads of state companies. I therefore argue that the basic idea of the draft is, however, to reassure the public. Actually, it's the wrong word to calm down here, we can't say that. Rather, this bill stems from a sense of justice in society, does not understand why some have it and others have it. But I am of the opinion that if Parliament so decides and the committees and Parliament's plenary think that this debate is necessary, then it must be done. Try to understand! I am deeply afraid that it is as if the government is leading us, especially because ministers are powerful personalities. But I am saying that it must still be Parliament that decides what to deny there, including government personnel, as well as perhaps the structure of ministries. But yes, never say never! Perhaps it would really be reasonable to finally reach a solution to certain issues of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U64	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U65	Thank you. Dear waitress, Criticism about the excessive wage of state companies is often used as an argument to compare the pay of public authorities. How do you feel about whether these two sectors, these two worlds, are in any way comparable in an understandable way and whether the level and nature of their responsibilities are so comparable that this comparison can somehow be used to determine the level of remuneration?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U66	That's a very good question, my dear colleague. Indeed, the responsibilities of directors of state companies are not comparable to those of government members, for example. The responsibility of the members of the government is undoubtedly many times greater. These two things, when used in the common language, are like a pig and a cuckoo who are not absolutely similar. I will be honest and frankly saying that, for example, EAS is essentially a redistributor of aid coming from outside, and we have only heard about the problems of sharing it for years. The National Audit Office has carried out an audit and said that seven billion kroons in old money have been put into the devil knows where and has not brought any success in the development of the Estonian economy. I am sorry, but I repeat my offer: I agree with all these posts covered by the draft for the prescribed wage rate. But I don't want to be Prime Minister because I can't do this job. I'm too weak for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U67	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U68	Dear waitress, Do you consider it likely that the supervisory board would have to comply with the guidelines of the general meeting or the founder that the supervisory board would not consult the general meeting or the founder, i.e. the minister, by determining the remuneration of the members of the management board?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U69	Of course he does! The Soviets are sometimes the weakest link in this sense. We discussed Soviet issues on the previous item. As a practitioner, I dare say that the councils are rather formal and that the discussion is between the Minister and the Chief Executive. The Council's just gonna sign it. After that, many thoughtful members of the council will have their eyes full of shame. Many such members have tried to leave the Council quickly because they have seen that the Council's substantive work, for example, in shaping wages, has been emotionally unacceptable to him. Unfortunately, Soviet status has been strange all along. We can't get a better quality in there until we can get real specialists there. But where do you get those specialists so much? In this sense, this is quite rightly an issue that has been raised.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U70	Thomas Tõniste.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U71	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You mentioned earlier that companies involved in international competition need managers with international experience. If we do not find such a person in Estonia, we must look beyond Estonia's borders. Unfortunately or luckily, I can't tell you which word is correct, the salary numbers are often completely different. What kind of options do you think there are here, is the company going to be left without a manager, or is it going to have to pay the salary that is paid elsewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U72	I think, Mr Tõniste, your attitude is completely wrong. On what basis do we say at all that we will not find leaders in Estonia for the six companies and foundations we are talking about today? Why do we view ourselves in this way? We haven't bought too many outside specialists in 22 years after regaining independence. We've bought twice, and we've screwed up both times. Forgive me, but suddenly we really should give up this practice to bring them in from outside because our men tend to do better. They understand better where they live and what the real possibilities of this country are and try to fight a little better for this country. If we buy someone else who comes from their background, then, I'm saying, this background is gonna suffocate him. If we buy a specialist in France, for example, he thinks he's a specialist and he's building an airline in a country with 50 million inhabitants. But by no means has the assistant told him that there are 1.3 million inhabitants in Estonia. He acts like the leader of a large French airline group, and we have nothing but empty hands. It's not a man's story that we don't have people of our own. We're talking about six companies today. If the country wants to set up a completely unique new company, such as start producing nuclear bombs, then to manage it, perhaps it should really be looking for someone from somewhere in the Pentagon, but the port, railroad, aviation and energy, no I'm sorry. Are we really not going to make it? You've got to be kidding me!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U73	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U74	Honourable Riigikogu! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft submitted. a on 6 May. In fact, this was the third time that we had to discuss the same draft. In the committee, Aivar Riisalu, the Central Party, represented the position of the Government and Tarmo Carrots, Deputy Head of the Public Assets Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the views of the Government. Aivar Riisalu introduced the objectives and content of the draft The government does not support the fixing of the remuneration of the members of the board of companies and foundations at the level of the Act, as this area is sufficiently regulated in the Commercial Code and the fixation may impair the competitiveness of companies. The Commission was asked how this draft differs from previous drafts. As we were saying, there's an opportunity to pay an extra fee. They also asked why this amount was EUR 6 000. It was discussed whether the bigger problem is not that the majority of wages in Estonia are too low, not that some wages are too high. In general, it was a rich and cheerful debate, as it was just a moment ago in front of this House. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 16 May and to propose that the draft be rejected. Six members of the Commission voted in favour of this proposal, four against and no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U75	Good waitress, thank you! You have questions. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You read the position of the Government of the Republic as to why the Government of the Republic does not support the draft. However, since the debate took place in the Commission and the decision to reject this draft was also taken by the Commission, maybe the reasons why the Commission did not support further processing of the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U77	Yes, I mentioned the positions of the Government of the Republic, because it is good practice to talk about them. The positions of the majority of the Commission were consistent with those of the Government of the Republic documents. We did not have a very long debate this time, because we have had this debate twice before. I've seen the last time I went to this station on January 15th with the exact same bill. We did not have a very long substantive debate this time, but the positions were really quite clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U78	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U79	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, I think even you have to admit that many councils have made major mistakes in setting the CEO's salary. Can you tell us what has been learned from the Estonian Air incident? It provided that if Tero Taskila could not cope with his work, he would receive three months' salary. What conclusions did the Council draw from this, and what has it learned?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U80	It would be wiser to ask the members of the council, but I think that the lesson of Estonian Air is still ongoing. We don't know exactly how this story ends. The board members have been replaced. It is known that politicians have been replaced there. Now this council is headed by Erkki Raasuke, who, in my opinion, is one of Estonia's most respected top executives and who will certainly do so not for their market price, but rather for pro bono. I think there's a lot of lessons to be learned. I suggest you ask the board members or the general meeting for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U81	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The previous rapporteur reported the views of two members of the government on the salary of the heads of state companies. These views were critical. Did these two ministers remain in a minority in the government when the government formed its position?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U83	Thank you. If you look into the positions of these ministers, you will see that they have not really demanded or considered it right to amend the law. The OECD also does not approve the establishment of wage limits by law. But these members of the government have certainly considered these salaries unfair at times or too large. Sometimes I feel that way too. But making laws on the basis of individual mistakes is not good practice; it is not the rule of law. Subjective assessments always remain. I hope that the members of the Council and the general meeting have read these opinions seriously and will make wiser decisions in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U84	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U85	Thank you. A few years ago, the Riigikogu decided to amend the law and limit the bonuses of the heads of state companies. So far, it was unregulated. For example, the leader of the Estonian Loto managed to get a bonus for good results, which was close to the annual salary. It was then legalized that the bonus should not exceed four months' pay. At the time, it was appropriate for the Riigikogu to amend the law in order to adjust the salary of the heads of state companies. How did this situation differ from the present? If we see that these salaries cannot be compared to the salary of the President or Prime Minister, why must we not now limit the salary of the heads of state companies in the plenary of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U86	Thank you. I think the debate was pretty emotional back then. I didn't participate in that debate myself. Overall, it can be said that it was not limited to the overall level of income, but that it was considered wise to limit the surcharges so that the majority of the remuneration would be a basic salary, so that it would be transparent and comparable. In the same way, banking and other sectors have been set up to limit the additional charges and to ensure that the basic salary is clear and transparent. Aivar Riisalu here quoted Jüri Manor, who has said that these brothers are not worth the salary. In the same article, he said, among other things, that it was customary in private business for board members to receive, for example, 10% of their profits as a bonus. If Eesti Energia's profit is close to 100 million euros, would our society be willing to pay 10 million euros to Sandor Liive for the end-of-year prize? Probably not. So these are different questions. I think the current regulation, where the premium is limited to four months' pay, is normal. It shouldn't be changed. But of course you can debate it. This was not the subject of the draft, and we did not discuss it in the Commission either.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U87	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U88	Two clarifications. First, the nukes are produced by General Electric, not the Pentagon. Secondly, I wanted to make it clear that we have good people. You forgot to mention that you agree to lead Eesti Energia for the salary of the chairman of this board. I will add and I have repeatedly stressed that as Head of Eesti Energia you would certainly be better, more effective, more compassionate and more understanding than all the current management. I have no doubt about that. If only you'd go in there! But here's what I wanted to ask you. We're talking about board members' salaries and other things. You were talking about the downward trend in the economy. The state should not be in business and, if the state is in business, it should perform social functions with this money. Eesti Energia does not do this. Should the Council also be a social function, not a financial one?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U89	Thank you. First of all, I didn't think the Pentagon was producing nuclear bombs, I said that maybe it would be worth buying a specialist from the Pentagon who would have come into contact with this subject. I like my colleague Igor Gräzin from time to time. He's such a charismatic and very brave man. Whether the Reform Party understands that they have such a pearl is a question of their own. I quote Igor Gräzini: 'Sandor Liive, you are not a businessman. You are a social worker whose job it is to sell competitive and low-cost electricity to Estonian businesses and citizens, because it is needed by our society. ' This is a message to be acknowledged, for the simple reason that Eesti Energia has been deceiving its people for decades, saying that it offers the best, cheapest and most sensible energy. I have repeatedly said in emotional speeches from this remote unit that I, too, have been the victim of this deception. In fact, let's be honest, there has been an unreasonable freeze in Estonia's domestic economy. Exports are exports, but the domestic economy is predominantly a service economy. If electricity bills, utility bills and whatever bills people rob at the time they get paid, then the domestic circulation cannot occur because people do not participate in consumption. These same companies in the country must ensure that they want to fly here, that they want to do business here, that there is a normal business environment and that they do not leave here because, for example, the price of energy that we ourselves are capable of producing is at an unreasonable price. As a result, I would like to emphasise once again that if the country were to develop any new smart ideas, a whole new situation could naturally arise, but we are talking about service institutions that need to ensure a normal economic environment. Everything else is coming almost by itself, and we will be among the richest five countries in 15 years. Of those 15 years, Igor, it's been a few years, I'm still waiting, but this wealth doesn't seem to be anywhere. In this sense, they are companies with a social background. However, the salaries of social workers are not very high.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U90	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U91	Thank you. The weekend is approaching, and the gathering is becoming more and more moody. I'm just saying in a philosophical reply that when you answered the previous question, when you said that the responsibility of the public authority was not comparable to that of the head of the company, you actually started comparing them. You actually compared them when you said one had a bigger responsibility and the other one had a smaller one. But that's it. My question is as follows. Do you think that there is some kind of more or less unambiguous understanding in Estonia of the basis for the formation of the salaries of company leaders, but perhaps also of the public sector leaders? What are the criteria under which it is organised? How do we even think about how much wages should be in one or the other position?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U92	That's a perfectly good point. We have created the current situation ourselves. We used the President's salary as a basis, and this decision was the result of a joint work. For the president's salary, the highest grade was 6,000 euros. Maybe we missed it even when we took the president's salary as a basis? This is once again the place of debate. I am saying that the way we created this previous system shows that we are able to debate and find solutions. We did it in a way, under pressure from society, we tried to clean up the system. There has also been pressure to put forward this bill. I even have those lines here, sweethearts. Jürgen Ligi has said that only pure gold should come from EAS for this salary. Jüri Manor has said about the salaries of the heads of state that these brothers are not worth it. Jürgen Ligi has said that the 5% increase in the salary of the head of RMK, so that the salary rose to EUR 7000, is not fair. These aren't Midweek articles, you see! All people can read in Estonia, but we pretend nothing happened. You can't do that, sweethearts! I can't! We are a parliament!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U93	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U94	I don't know if I dare ask anymore, but I'll try. Before I asked you if the purpose of the bill was to put the ceiling on the salary of business leaders, or rather, you find the ministerial salary to be low. You answered me so crazy, I didn't understand. But I did realize that in the meantime, you said you wouldn't be Prime Minister yourself because you're too weak. Since you don't have your interest in the game, maybe now you'll give me a specific answer. What should be the salary of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia? You don't want that salary, but what's your objective assessment as an observer?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U95	6,000 euros, according to the Central Party draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U96	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U97	Look, I have this feeling that Estonia has become a country of drug addiction. In the sense that we are sitting on a drug needle and we have the knowledge that the dividend from Eesti Energia is not needed by anyone, among others. If this dividend went back to production, our country would be much richer. We are now simply stealing our own wealth tomorrow by means of this dividend. Eesti Energia must be privatized as a matter of urgency, as long as there is something else to privatise. But now the question arises as to whether there are areas in which the country still needs to remain in business at all costs. When we draw up a budget here, too, we consider that it brings dividends, it produces profits, etc., forgetting that this profit is not needed by anyone, it just helps to balance the budget for a moment, and everything, it is a small thing, in short, it does not matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U98	I cannot agree with Mr Gräzin on this. The position of the Centre Party is clearly that there is no need to privatise Eesti Energia. The state must simply put Estonia's energy in place and build it in such a way that it is indeed an infrastructure unit that will ensure the normal development of the economy. The expectation of a dividend should not be fundamental in the case of Eesti Energia, but it should be fundamental that the business environment created by the normal price of energy creates new jobs in Estonia and increases the tax base of the state. I agree with my colleague on that. Privatisation is not a good model here, because if we privatize, we would dive into the indeterminate. True, from the point of view of Eesti Energia, it might be worth separating the oil industry, for example, which is not reasonable for the state to consider, because it is such an unpredictable area and in any way related to faults. But that's why we're not talking about this right now. You asked what business the Estonian state should do. I think that the Estonian state really should do more business. While speaking here on behalf of the party, I am again speaking as a practitioner that during the deep crisis, Estonian exporters in our main export markets in the Nordic countries were affected primarily because the Nordic countries started to support their economies. In a literal sense, both bank measures and national measures created a situation in which very many things that the state did not consider fit to do in the past, however, it itself began to do so in order to preserve jobs and normal economic circulation. In Estonia, on the contrary, the right-wing government has declared that the state does not have to do business. I think, for example, it would be reasonable for the country to capitalise the development fund better than has been the case so far. It would make sense for the state to place venture capital at the next level, i.e. smart entrepreneurship, development fund specialists could assess the relevance of its placement and the country would have a double victory. We could create more of our dream, smart jobs. If companies start up normally, it would be possible to realise it. What would the Estonian state oppose, for example, that a Skype analogue would bring proper money to the state budget? Perhaps Andrei Korobenik, who is a very wise man, would instead create some very expensive or uncomfortable capital, in cooperation with the state, some smart company that he would realise in three years' time, allow free capitalism and the Estonian state to earn considerable value from it. This would be the direction that the Estonian state should definitely develop. We did quite well when we directed the Telekom dividends to the Development Fund. True, it can always happen that something is going wrong, but in any case it makes sense for such a small country to invest in such entrepreneurship. The second recommendation to the Estonian state is that the Estonian state should seriously think about buying a position in a bank of some kind. There is only one bank in Estonia where the state should buy a position so that Estonia's average and small business can have some creditworthiness, because small businesses find it difficult to get in from the doors of large international banks. I think this could be the second business line of the Estonian state. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U99	Juku-Kalle Raid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U100	Thanks, Aivar! That was a very nice speech. But I had one question: Do you remember what the question was, what you answered?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U101	I answered the question of what kind of business the Estonian state should run. [Interjection: "Right! ']
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U102	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Arto Asa, member of the Economic Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Please remind me, simply in terms of factual accuracy, whether the Estonian Air Council was led by a politician or an entrepreneur. That's the first half of the question. The second part of the question is as follows. I was not present in previous discussions on this draft, but in the short time I have been in the Riigikogu, I have seen two very cheerful presentations by Riisalu on this subject. But have there been discussions before about the pay ceilings of the managers of Tallinn companies or the different limits of these fees?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U104	Estonian Air's board of directors led the company. In this council, companies have always dominated. As far as the participation of politicians in the board of companies is concerned, as far as I have heard, and I have heard quite a lot, politicians have rather been against these high salaries, they have been more modest. This pressure comes from the private sector. We know that the wage levels of state-owned companies are not very high in Estonia compared to similar companies. When we look at large private companies with the same turnover, which employ more than 500 people, we see that there are higher wages. They're going to the extremes here, too. For example, the manager of one fertiliser plant earned more in one month than the president or someone else in Estonia. In the energy and transit sectors in particular, wages are very high. In councils too, their wage providers have been rather people from the private sector. But that's it. We have discussed the wage arrangements of Tallinn companies in previous times. I do not consider it right to regulate it at national level and, as far as I know, it has not been regulated in Tallinn either. But I don't have any more specific information.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U105	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Aivar Riisalu, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U106	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't have come here with a remote control if there wasn't a very serious problem in the round of questions that I see right now in our society. This is an endless confrontation between the averages, the left and the right, and an endless confrontation between the Estonian state, its parliament and its government and Tallinn. I am very unhappy that the members of the parliament and government of the Republic of Estonia are trying to portray a certain rhetorical Tallinn as such an important place in the world. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Tallinn is the capital of the Republic of Estonia and the mayor of Tallinn is, by chance, the chairman of the Estonian Central Party, Edgar Savisaar, as a result of democratic elections, but Tallinn is also one of the 223 local governments or how many local governments there are in Estonia. It was therefore very difficult for me to hear when the former minister and current member of the Riigikogu drew a parallel with one rural municipality when discussing a matter of national importance. A member of the parliament of the Republic of Estonia could not afford this. He probably had so much work working as a minister that he could not understand that the parliament was elected by the people, that the government was actually subject to the parliament, and that the parliament could not lead Tallinn. If a Member of Parliament considers the problems of local government to be important to him, he will, of course, have the opportunity to work at the local council. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the local council will have access to the elections that will take place in s. a 20th October. This is the recommendation to the Reform Party to set up Kristen Michal's candidacy in the city centre of Tallinn in the elections, for example, where, thanks to its clear eye view and actually very good preparation and proper brains, he could be one of the brightest members of the Tallinn Council, if not to say that we could consider electing him as chairman of the Tallinn Council if the Reform Party were in the coalition with the Central Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-16_U107	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 397 at first reading. We will prepare the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 39 members of the Riigikogu, 22 against, no abstentions. The draft law amending the State Assets Act, initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group, 397 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The second item is closed. Good fellows, the hearing is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 11.31 a.m.
