ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the second working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Colleagues, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. First of all, I ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Rail Act, the Emergency Act and the State Fees Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Secondly, the draft Act amending the Foundations of the Property Reform of the Republic of Estonia and other laws in connection with it. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of this bill. And thirdly, the amendment of the Health Services Organisation Act and the related amendment of other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas when processing this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U3	Thank you. Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U4	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 15 members of the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu, I present an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. As we could read about the Postimees on Saturday, most of the rural elders of the Reform Party and the IRL have decided or been forced to stand as candidates in municipal elections to those bodies whose activities they are required to exercise official supervision in accordance with the Law of the Government of the Republic. We believe that this is a clear conflict of interest in the substance of § 25 of the Anti-Corruption Act, both during the campaign, but if the governor turns out to be elected and does not resign and does not go to the council, then also during the entire period of office of the council to which certain members of the political power have been elected, for example, by means of the votes given to the governor. It is not by chance that a rural governor's membership of the local council is banned by the Local Government Organisation Act. And this ban is absolute.... his council mandate will be terminated, unlike, for example, members of the Riigikogu and ministers whose local government council mandate is suspended during their activities in the Riigikogu or the government. Of course, it is also a matter of administrative resources when applying for county elders and, ultimately, of the unhindered use of the working time of a public official in the interests of the party. It is a serious pity that the government coalition has changed the former status of a dignified county governor into the head of essentially the county party office. Since the county elders are approved officials of the Government of the Republic, we have a number of questions for the head of the government regarding the possible conflict of interest in the application of county elders in municipal elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U5	Thank you very much. On behalf of the board, I have adopted three draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to accept them within three working days, and if an inquiry complies with this Act, I shall forward it immediately to the addressee. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now give the following messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. Firstly, the Estonian Centre Party Group. a draft law amending the Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act, initiated on 11 September, the Committee on Culture. Secondly, the Social Democratic Party Group. a draft law amending the Law on study grants and student loans, initiated on 11 September, the Committee on Culture. Thirdly, the Social Democratic Party Group. a draft law on the amendment of the Traffic Act, initiated on 12 September, the Committee on Economic Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. The following drafts were submitted to the Committee on European Union Affairs on 12 September 2004: Firstly, a draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1013/2006 on shipments of waste. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Environment Committee to give an opinion on the positions and draft regulation of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 26 September 2010 at 4 p.m. Secondly, a draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the monitoring, reporting and control of CO2 emissions from maritime transport and a Commission communication on the integration of maritime transport emissions into EU policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed a draft of the Government of the Republic's positions and regulations and an opinion on the communication to be given by the Committee on the Environment and the Economic Commission. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 26 September 2010 at 4 p.m. Thirdly, a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2009/71/Euratom establishing a Community framework for the nuclear safety of nuclear installations. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on the Environment and the Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 26 September 2010 at 4 p.m. Fourthly, the draft Council Directive amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Constitutional Committee and the Committee on Monetary Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 26 September 2010 at 4 p.m. The members of the Riigikogu formed an Estonian-Mongolia parliamentary group. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the adoption of this week's agenda, you have your agenda on the table. I shall vote on the adoption of this week's agenda. Please vote! 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, and no one is against or impartial. The week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U6	Since we have no questions today, please register for speaking in a free microphone after my hammer strike. Rainer Vakra, I didn't hit you yet! But well, I'm breaking the law, but I'll let you perform. Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U7	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, When the anxiety of registration is over in the Chamber, I would like to draw attention to one issue that I have been dealing with with with my colleague, Mr Kaljuvee, all summer. Last Wednesday, in Question Time, we asked the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, to answer that question. The topic, however, is that Eesti Energia Iru's waste generation plant imports from Finland and Great Britain a tenth of the waste needed to keep the plant running. I'm sorry, can I have some quiet in the hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U8	Yeah, yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U9	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue. If someone has something urgent to say, maybe they could do it outside the hall. Thank you. In fact, the problem is serious, and I am very sorry that Juhan Parts often talks about the garden when we talk about the garden hole. Let me remind you of some facts. In order for Iru's waste generation plant to be in operation, almost 20,000 to 30000 tonnes of garbage are transferred from Finland and Great Britain to Muuga and later sent to the oven. As an eco-educated person, I say that this basically means that one in four ships is essentially simply emptied into a landfill of Riverlähtme, because for every tonne of garbage that Irus burns, 250 kilograms of ash and 25 kilograms of hazardous waste are generated. This raises both environmental and economic issues. Why environmental? Juhan Parts always insists that, good friends, this is a much better solution than burying garbage in Pääsküla or Jõelähtme dump or wherever. Of course! But let's get down to business. If I drive a 10-litre car today and tomorrow I drive a 7-litre car, it's not really a green mindset yet. It is also possible to drive an ecologically clean car, an electric car or anything. It has to be understood that waste can later be used 3 to 5 times more productively than when waste is sorted. Right now, we're burning plastic bottles at Iru's garbage plant, for example. However, if we were to sort the garbage and recycle these bottles, the benefits to the Estonian state and its environment would be 3 to 5 times greater. Why is it all useful to put Irus in the oven now? The reason is very simple. According to the rhetoric of Eesti Energia itself, this is support for cogeneration, not support for the incineration of waste. In reality, however, all Estonian electricity consumers who have received the so-called renewable energy fee have been added to the network services submitted by Eesti Energia. According to the calculations, each of us would be able to save almost EUR 10 a year if this support were stopped. And speaking of the fact that burning the garbage of the Finns or the British is an environmentally sound course of action is, to put it mildly, wrong. On the other hand, a debate must be launched about how serious the environmental planning of our Estonian country is at all. In recent years or, let's say, in the last ten years, there has been an enormous amount of talk about the need to build terrifying Euro-trash landfills in Estonia. Five expensive Euro landfills have been built under the strong leadership of the Ministry of the Environment, involving both local governments and private companies. Later, EUR 105 million was contributed to the waste incineration plant in Iru. Unfortunately, I would actually say that, fortunately, there is not enough garbage for 'damage' to the Euro landfills, and it is already clear that four of these five landfills could be closed. Once again, the question arises: if we make such investment decisions, whether we are going to think twice about why we are doing this or that, how long is the time for profitability and what will happen next. Basically, these millions of money from the European Union, but also from local authorities and private companies, which contributed to the construction of landfills, have actually been thrown to the wind. With regard to the environment, we cannot talk about the fact that if we take a better step today, it is very good. We all actually understand that it would also be possible to take three, four or five steps to make it a very good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U10	Thank you, Mr Vakra. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U11	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, This summer we visited Southeast Estonia, Saaremaa and South Estonia and saw a lot of interesting and useful things. They always ask how things are in Ida-Virumaa and specifically in Narva. You're going to explain one thing, two thing or three, and right away it turns out that people just don't know what the old town of Narva is, which is bastion, etc. That's how I carry an entire album with me on my phone. It's great to show pictures. And I would also like to show you what has changed in Narva this summer. There should be a port in Narva in front of you right now. It was in complete ruins eight years ago. You can now see that one euro project, which has lasted four years, is in its final stages. By the way, please inform your friends that it is possible to take a yacht to Narva and follow this yacht along the Narva River to Lake Peipsi. A beautiful project, a rowing base, 300 meters of new roads, an opportunity to deliver yachts. This year, several schools have been repaired to quite a large extent. It's an old-town high school that's got a whole new facade, it's been fixed inside with the city's money. This is our humanitarian gymnasium, just like the four other schools in Narva, it has a new facade. We have a new stadium, Kalev Stadium. There's, I don't know the term, a heated or heated football field, with two of them. Plus two tennis courts. Everything complies with the euro rules, there can be all kinds of euro competitions. There's also a dog park, by the way, there's also a parking lot and stuff. Narva finished building a new nursing home this year. Why am I saying that new? It used to ben't in Narva. Now we are not dependent on any other municipality, our elderly and disabled will receive a service in the city of Narva. Several euro projects have been carried out in recent years. It's kindergarten Penguin, there's two groups of sick kids that weren't in Narva before. In parallel, two million euros of interior finishing, organized facade, court, etc. was also available. It's a children's creative house. By the way, all over Estonia is surprised when I say that there has been no detention in Narva in recent years. As was the case today, there are three sports schools, two music schools, an art school, a club of young sailors, and a children's creative centre. You see, it's got a new facade, and it's been completely fixed inside, except for the third floor, but that's what we're gonna end this year. There are about 1,500 children. Two companies have emerged in our industrial and logistics area. This picture does not convey this real size area is about 40,000 square meters. That object that's in front of it, and what's back there, there's a piece of land between them, where Aquaphor started building a new plant that's about 400 jobs. These are logistics centers, and you'll see that there's lighting, roads and everything else you need. Narva Hospital built a new corps, it's on the right in the picture. These three floors were made very quickly and with very beautiful furnishings. And now I'm just showing you how to fix the city's skateboard, you: it's on the shore, it's on the top, it's on the bottom, and I think it's the most beautiful shoreside in Estonia next year. Bastione has been done more times this year than in the last 30 years combined. The construction of the new church and the renovation of the water and sewerage network for EUR 73 million are ongoing. So when you come to Narva next year, some people won't recognize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U12	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U13	Thank you. How many minutes do I have?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U14	Five minutes, no more.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U15	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for you about the quiz. Can anyone remember the last time he heard positive news about Tallinn or Edgar Savisaar in the Estonian media? I understand silence because it is really very difficult to remember because there is simply no news. The good news about the life and mayor of our capital is not funny in the media, although many things have been done well in Tallinn. Even free transport, which has attracted enormous interest elsewhere in the world, is still not what our press thinks it should be. Public broadcasting operates according to our own rules, without regard to any laws. He simply does not give news if, for example, it is not acceptable to national broadcasters. I think the self-censorship of internal and journalistic people is really strong. Often, some news from Tallinn or Central Party flies directly into the trash can if necessary. There's a lot of examples, but I'll get you one of the freshest. On Saturday, September 14, there was a rural congress in Põlva, the sixth. A great event, attended by President Rüütel, regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler, guests of the Euro Parliament and a large number of well-known farmers. The rain radio, our public channel, didn't read one news about the event this morning, I listened with my ear until 10 o'clock. It would have been that I couldn't get on the show because there was too much news. On the contrary, there was no news. And that would be random, what I'm saying! I've worked in the press myself for many years, I know this system through and through. I've performed in the same studios myself, and that's why I can draw conclusions. It's up to the editor to decide whether or not some news should be broadcast. If you look at the coverage of local elections in the media, be a man and hold on to laughter. The Estonian media has not gone any further than comparing posters and studying the residence of candidates. Ideas and worldview were never mentioned. I'm not alone with my thoughts. I'll give you an example. How long will our election be fought around Edgar Savisaar, not around ideas? So, yesterday, a big Internet portal asked. And the Reform Partyman replied, one of the most praiseworthy political technologists we have in Estonia, Rain Rosimannus. The question of how long our election will last around Edgar Savisaare, not around ideas, was answered by Rosimannus: 'Funny question. You are here, journalists in Tallinn, in newspapers, instilling it in the truth, and then you are busy recovering it. Savisaar front and Savisaar back... " Rosimpupus says there are problems in the Beyond or in the Pass, but they don't talk about it. I would like to quote: 'If the media were to shake themselves off the comfort of simplification and work, it would be able to bring reality to the voters, that in Tallinn too, there is no question of choice at all in Savisaare. Unfortunately, the media themselves have gone the easy way of resisting and have been tinkering so far mainly on posters and television advertising aesthetics. ' That no one in the press reads party platforms, I don't think anyone will think of it, says the man I quoted. And on that point, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great thing that there is a Tallinn TV! At least you'll hear opinions that don't encourage mainstream media blurring. 'I'm watching Tallinn TV, as I was listening to the American Voice to find out the truth,' wrote one of the voters. The mainstream media is running our country, I have reason to say. And, ladies and gentlemen, I want to make a statement. It seems to me that we should start discussing the Estonian Freedom of the Press Act in this Chamber. It is not the law of the press that we need, but the law of freedom of the press, as it is in Finland and many other countries. This would ensure the same level of opportunity for the other party to express their views when attacked, for example, by a well-known portal. Right now, our people will never be able to respond to the attack, perhaps with just a little comment. It seems to me that the time has come to think about the freedom of the press and adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U16	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U17	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, They say who remembers the old thing, the eye out of his head. And then wait six months in the order of the eye doctor with his eyeball in his hand! Right now, a doctor's strike is an old deal. For a year and a half, doctors held talks trying to get a minister to the negotiating table, but once they were pushed to the health fund, once the Health Board, eventually the Hospitals Association. And as a result of the negotiations, an agreement was finally reached that the working hours of doctors would be regulated. The press, of course, sent a message that doctors are on strike because of their salary, that they, greedy people, want to get paid. Actually, it was a lot more complicated. In fact, as the health insurance fund does not have enough money to buy medical care as much as the residents need, all doctors have been working overtime all the time without paying for it. That is why the association of doctors, the association of nurses, the professional association of health professionals, and a number of other medical organisations signed an agreement defining their working hours. More admissions are provided: four minutes for the doctor and 17 minutes for the nurse. Accordingly, the price of services will be increased as the time of the medical staff's service is increased. Such a contract was signed and is now being used for the performance of this contract. The Minister of Social Affairs claims that it was not all services, but only part of specialist medical care. At the same time, the contract simply stated the receptions and bed days, so it was intended for all services. The Minister once claims that it was a matter of minutes, but it was not a matter of money, although the collective agreement clearly stated that not only would the working hours be extended, but also the financial cover would be found for it. A number of negotiations have now been held which led Minister Taavi Rõivas, in June, to acknowledge that the terms of the collective agreement were not fully met and to commit itself to meeting them. Since July, there has been no procedure for a draft ministerial regulation in which the relevant component is included. We are talking about all services, we are talking about part of the services. And that's the point where the collective agreement is still outstanding. And with this, the Minister of Social Affairs has created a situation where doctors can start the strike again by giving rise to an outstanding collective agreement. Why must they accept the flagrant violation of the collective agreement with them every day, day after day? Let's say the price of the service is 100 currency units, for example. So far, it contained 30 currency units for human resources services, and now the share of wages was increased to 35 units. The price of the service should therefore be higher by five currency units. If it didn't rise, then then something else was reduced, which this service contained, whether or not these threads are needles, it's an anesthetic, it's a pill. In any case, the volume of the service has decreased when the service price increased the working time component, but the price of the service remained the same. This means that, at the hands of the Minister, all of us who receive medical care will receive a percentage less, or we will get less quality. And this situation will continue. What it ends with is unknown. The Doctors' Union is fighting for its own cause, the Minister is resisting, and this stalemate persists. How well the association of doctors can take care of its interests depends on the patients. They're supposed to support the medics, we should all support them. And when someone thinks what I'm saying about this old thing, I say this: if no one remembers the past, Alzheimer's is the name of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U18	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U19	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, For me, but certainly for a lot of others who ache their hearts because of the well-being of the Estonian maritime industry, the main event of last week was the ninth international maritime conference with the order number held on Friday. The theme of the conference this time was profound: "Is the sea blooming? '. This issue has profound and quite multifaceted content. If we do not care about the protection of the marine environment, the sea will indeed bloom. However, if we push it too hard, the sea economy will be fading. Is it possible to achieve a balance so that ships travel in a clean environment? Unfortunately, one takes place at the expense of another, and the ideal can only be approached. In just over a year's time, sulphur limits will enter into force: from 1 January 2015 only 0,1% of sulphur oxides may be present in the exhaust gases. In 2016, there will be additional nitrogen limits. To this end, ships must either be equipped with crabs that catch sulphur emissions or be transferred to natural gas fuel. Both solutions require very large alterations, the cost of which can reach up to one third of the price of the ship. In some parts, expensive ship conversions have already started, supported by flag states. Siim Kallas, European Commissioner for Transport, also made it clear in his presentation that state aid is possible for these modifications. Would the Estonian state support its shipowners in such ship conversions? Without hesitation, it can be claimed that it is certainly not. The Estonian state did not wish to support the maritime sector, nor did it wish to support it in the case of more modest activities. How, then, will shipping competition develop in unequal conditions? These high costs are likely to be reflected in the sharp increase in freight transport and passenger tickets. As said by the President of the Estonian Shipowners' Association in Toivo Ninna, shipowners cannot keep this gift. At the end of the conference there was a lively discussion on Estonian Maritime Policy 2011 has been held. The main question, of course, was what has happened, what is happening with the implementation of maritime policy. As we know, the maritime policy debate was in this Chamber on 6 March 2012. Unfortunately, the Riigikogu did not take a decision on this, it was limited to a discussion. The Government approved the development plan in 2011. In the debate on this development plan, I said in my speech that everything now depends on the implementation plan. It is the operational programme that is the basis for specific operations and also provides for steps to be taken to finance operations. Of course, coalition politicians confirmed that work is ongoing and that enough has already been done. I'm not gonna talk emotional shit here, let's face the facts. Chapter 3 "Implementation of the development plan' of the development plan sets out the following lines: 'Implementation plans for at least four years shall be drawn up for the development plan, detailing the activities to be carried out, those responsible and the need for resources. The MKM will submit the first implementation plan for the years 2012/2014 to the Government of the Republic within three months of the approval of the development plan by the Riigikogu. " As an interim remark, three months had passed since the adoption of the development plan, when the discussion of the development plan took place in this hall, or on 6 March last year. The conference revealed from the words of a representative of the Ministry that the implementation plan has been sent to the inter-ministerial coordination circle and has been toned in the Ministry of Finance for some time. As we know, the development plan was also shaved heavily in the Ministry of Finance, precisely in terms of the necessary activities. Will the implementation plan be approved for the last year of the period envisaged? There's no point in talking about filling any more. It is simply the adoption and approval of the development plan that will not ensure any development unless the operations foreseen in it are carried out. I have already said in the debate that there is only one sacred document for the government, it is perhaps even more sacred than the Koran for Muslims, it is a coalition treaty. If this does not include maritime development, it will not happen, regardless of any development plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U20	Thank you. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U21	Ladies and gentlemen, I am a former journalist, and therefore, when I had read a scary article on Thursday in the Eesti Päevaleht about 20 people living in the Paljassaare garages in Tallinn with small children who drink sea water, who do not go to school and have no toilets or washing facilities, who eat some kind of garbage from the dump, I rushed there on Friday morning with Karin Tammemäe, the older of the northern Tallinn district, and my good colleague Sergei Nikonov, who has previously been a member of the Tallinn City Council. I hope he'll have it in the future. It was very strange that we couldn't find one of those people whose big pictures were only recently decorating the northern part of Tallinn. According to my understanding, they should have been there. But it was more interesting than that. The garage association, which we are talking about, has 1,300 garages. We all saw these pictures, only the lazy media edition left this article unseen The pictures showed children's toys. In short, it's depressing. What did you find out? There's a lady in a garage named Larissa who's lived there for eight months. He used to live in an old boiler house that's been demolished by now. This garage belongs to a friend of his who allows him to live there. There were no other people there. In the article, I read that there are manned guards in this area, dogs. It seemed as if the homeless had created some kind of country there where they lived, guarding themselves, etc. That's not true! We spent three and a half hours there and saw that no people lived there. It turned out that the pictures that appeared in the Eesti Päevaleht as well as other publications were taken at the next dump. The photographer or any other journalist who was there wouldn't point the finger at it, deliberately highlighted these toys. They were photographed and the message that remained in the media was that children living in Tallinn under inhumane conditions. Look, here are their toys! It's very strange that no one bothered to control it. Right now, I opened this Delfi report for interest. The original message has already disappeared, but the title is: 'Look at the conditions in which people live in the garages of Paljassaare'. Then there are pictures of these garages. There are no people, the only one present is the same Larissa. This Larissa was put in a car in front of me and taken to a service apartment that was offered to her right now. He said he'd think a little about whether he wanted to go there and go back to those garages. What do I mean by that? I don't understand what's going on with the specialty I've been working on for 18 years. I don't understand why the author of the article, whom I called seven times, didn't pick up the phone. I also do not understand why five media publications quote such an article or struggle to control it. And once again, I ask you this: why did all those people who now want to make the city of Tallinn more beautiful, better, free of corruption, more humane did not go there to help people who claim to live in such conditions? I understand that I have no one here to ask this question, but I hope that later on, ladies and gentlemen will read today's verbatim. I'd really like to know if you knew it was wrong, or if you don't care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U22	Thank you. Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U23	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, who have stayed in the Chamber! I'm listening to the problems of urban life here, but I really want to tell you about rural life. On Saturday, the Põlva Cultural and Interest Center held the VI congress of the rural people. The event was very tight and I want to thank everyone who was there! At the height of Congress, at the very beginning, there were 218 people in the hall, and I counted them. By evening, I guess people were tired of listening or were waiting for autumn work, so the last block of education included 70 to 80 people. What are you gonna do? I would like to express my special thanks to my good colleagues who took part in the preparation of the Congress: Jüri Ratas, Mailis Reps, Priit Toobal, Tarmo Tamm and Jaan Apple Tree. I would also like to thank our regional minister. As a rule, ministers of the current government have a certain arrogance, ignoring, and also saying badly through flowers, if you ask them something, suggesting or asking them to do something. When we had invited the Minister of Regional Affairs to come to Congress, he acted with great courtesy and all due respect to us. So the cocoon was great. I thank him very much for coming from his family's side in Põlva on Saturday and performing for us, without derogatory the hall, as his colleagues tend to do. Anyway, thank you so much for us! Foreign guests from the Committee of the Regions of the European Union and, of course, the European Commission's Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development were present. All presentations will be published on the website of the Rural Congress in a translated form if anyone has an interest in reading them. My colleagues were talking about media behavior today. That really surprises me. We realized at the last moment in the congress that the media didn't want to transfer our information anywhere. However, the event was a bit reflected and it was interesting to see our national broadcasting representative skipping politicians in the field like a post. Maybe somebody gets unearned attention! It is a good thing that some interviews were taken and the people of Estonia learned something about the Congress. Once again, I will tell those who are going to hear what I am saying here that the country folk congress website will have the presentations held in a short time. Thank you, of course, to Tallinn TV, who really provided information about the congress! The thematic blocks dealt with in Põlva were the administrative reform and the rural development plan, which concerns our agriculture and even rural areas in the years 2014 to 2020. They brought out a lot of bottlenecks. Unfortunately, I cannot list them here, but I would say one thing: the main issues of Congress were how to fight price increases. Our government has opportunities to do something about this in order to alleviate the situation of people. This also applies to the purchase price to be paid by the farmer. This is, in a sense, the hypocrisy of the current government. While the government approved the idea of promoting land purchases by means of the MAK measures, representatives of the coalition, belonging to the European Union Affairs Commission, voted it down. The opposition, the Centre Party and the Social Democrats, disagreed. It is the case that, in fact, the government does not want to slow down the rise in prices. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U24	Thank you. Please, Mr Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U25	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good listeners! Last spring I presented an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, concerning Estonian Railways, specifically the new trains that have arrived and are still arriving. These are Stadler's high-speed trains. What has happened during the summer? In the summer, these trains were already, let's say, three little mischiefs. First of all, one train stopped at a stop somewhere one day. The door wasn't open, people were on the train for decades, and they couldn't do anything about it. The reason was very simple: the person who won the competition and became the driver of the train could not simply do the basic: press one button to get people out of the car. The second case was when the windshield of a train with a stone was tossed off some crossroads. And the third case was when there was a fire on the roof of the train where the batteries were installed. All this shows what I was talking about a few months ago: Estonian Railway is not ready to exploit these new trains. We behave like natives who were given glass necklaces and who are very happy to have them around their necks, but what to do with them, they don't know. But they're willing to give anything for them. When they bought those trains, they didn't buy any more hardware. They didn't buy special cranes to help in the event of an accident, God forbid that's gonna happen! just lift up the train and set it back on the tracks. There are no special depots where toilets can be emptied, among other things. They say there's just a toilet in several cars right now. There is therefore a great deal to be done to ensure that Estonian Railway infrastructure is so secure that these trains can run as fast as they are supposed to be. But the normal speed of these trains is pretty high if they can only drive so fast. In European countries, it is generally not possible to throw a stone off a bridge in such a way that it falls directly on the windshield of a train. Bridges are built so you can't throw anything on the train from up there. We don't have any homework on this either. The biggest problem, however, is that it is now very difficult to find highly educated railwaymen on our railways. There was a pretty good vocational school in Estonia in its time, right here. It once bore the name of Alexei Müürissepa and prepared middle-level specialists. We don't train highly educated specialists for railroad. The current elite, however, is ageing, and when railroads start to be run by people who can only profit from it, it can lead to a lot of trouble. I really hope nothing terrible happens. I hope that the 38 Stadler trains that come on our railroads will travel quickly and so that people will be safe. But as long as nothing's done for it, I'm gonna start talking about this remote unit every month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U26	Thank you very much. Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U27	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk a little bit about what happened in this hall last Wednesday. I took the help of an executive edition of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. When we unravel this book, I will read to you in the foreword: 'The parliamentary regime, whose task is to ensure that democracy persists, is first and foremost expressed in a free and thoughtful debate. Parliament works according to sound procedural rules, always considering all aspects and making the best decisions. The basis for the work of the Riigikogu is the Constitution, the Home and Working Procedures Act and the Status of a Member of the Riigikogu Act. This publication focuses on the Home and Working Procedures Act. ' I believe a lot of people have read this book. I, too, have read, though not from the beginning to the end, but very often in my work, I take the book back and read the pages that directly affect me. In this book you can also read that a representative of the commission will present a report for up to 20 minutes during the procedure of a draft law, and the purpose of this report is to introduce to the members of the Riigikogu the work done on the commission, including an overview of the issues discussed in the committee and the problems raised. So what happened last Wednesday? I, as one of the leading mentors of the bill, was talking about a law that bears the short name ATKEAS, i.e. the law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, and I made a presentation here on behalf of the commission and spoke about what was discussed in the committee. I tried to do it the best way. The committee session lasted 1 hour for 40 minutes, my report in this Chamber was just under 20 minutes. When the draft law is prepared by the government, it is perfectly natural and logical that opposition politicians are asking questions. That was also the case in the Commission this time. Many opposition ambassadors asked questions to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, but since the bill was poorly prepared, the latter often failed to find answers. After I had made my presentation here, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi came to this very chair and reproached me, a Member of Parliament, that I misrepresented what was born in the Commission. I consider such a thing to be completely unacceptable. A minister, not even Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, has the right to intervene in parliamentary work. We have a separation of powers! Jürgen Ligi should do the work he has to do as Minister of Finance, but he must not interfere with Parliament's work. It must not reproach Members who appear on behalf of the Commission. He criticised very strongly that the facts I presented were false. I would like to stress at this point that very many facts were true. Even if it hurts to listen to them, you have to listen to them. And I rely on a lot of facts because I've been working on this for a year. If Jürgen Ligi says these are the wrong facts, then he also says that the Chancellor of Justice is also a liar. The Chancellor of Justice has done a very meaningful analysis of the subject and has also presented his views here in the Riigikogu. I find this intervention by the Minister very regrettable. I don't think Jürgen Ligi's ever gonna come in this chair and apologize to anyone. But I believe that Jürgen Ligi makes some conclusions and is able to learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U28	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, For many years, I have worked in the local government for nearly 20 years. But now, as a member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, I am truly puzzled. It turns out that certain laws in Estonia can be interpreted arbitrarily. For example, § 52 of the Local Government Organisation Act says of when the council is unable to act as follows: the council is unable to act even if it has not elected a new mayor or mayor within two months of the day of the publication of a mistrust to the mayor, mayor or government, and has not confirmed the members of the government within four months of the date of the application of mistrust. It turns out that this point is purely formal. There is one council that did not comply with it, and after the Supreme Court declared this council ineffective, the council dissolved. And what happened? Nothing happened! It turns out that the legislation adopted by this same council, which is unable to act, has full legal weight today. So a council that does not have powers can essentially adopt legislation, and they are valid. In my opinion, a council that is unable to act is essentially one meeting of the villagers because it does not have a mandate. But it turns out that such a collection of villagers can take very weighty decisions, whether it be a merger of local governments, a budget or whatever. It turns out from the current judicial practice that this law does not matter at all. Now I have the question that, if the Chancellor of Justice believes that this law does not matter, why is this point in the law and these deadlines written at all? Then the law must be used to remove them from the law for two months and four months, because they have no meaning whatsoever. And how long can the council be unable to act? I think a maximum of 3.5 years after the council meets, the mayor is distrusted, and within four months they should appoint a new mayor. Then there's still 3.5 years left. So it can be said that, following this interpretation, a council that is unable to act can adopt legislation within 3.5 years, which should be all in force today. Let me give you an example by developing this subject further. Let's say I got a driver's license. If that permission happens to be taken away from me because of the rush or I lose it, I'll ask why I can't go on. I have a driver's license. What's the difference? If this is the way laws are interpreted and if the law does not have any clear weight, how should a simple citizen understand our laws? It is certainly my duty as a member of the Riigikogu to try to make certain changes to the law on the organisation of local government. If this works, we can move on. The fact that our laws apply selectively and can be interpreted in this way and in a way is not appropriate to the rule of law. It is certainly a great surprise to me that a court should be seised of any such matter. Our courts are already overloaded. Should any citizen whose rights have been violated turn to the courts? Perhaps in the future, these things could be resolved more easily. I hope that this is possible and that the constitutional institutions that have been called upon by the state will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U30	Thank you. And please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U31	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In Question Time last Wednesday, I asked Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas about the planned increase in pensions of 5.8% in 2014. Well, I was curious about how far it was going to be to raise the tax-free minimum. This need has been stated by both the Minister of Finance and the new Minister of Social Affairs immediately after taking office. However, now that the 2014 state budget has started to be drawn up, it has remained somewhat quiet. The Social Democrats have submitted a draft to the proceedings, according to which the tax-free minimum would gradually increase each year. In his reply given by the Minister of Social Affairs in Question Time, he stated that Estonia's average pension was 334 euros. The minimum pension exemption is set at EUR 336. If this minimum rate is not raised, many pensioners will be in a situation where the pension will not rise 5.8% but much less. The Association of Pensioner Associations has carried out a study among its members from 2008 to this day, as well as numerically proving that the real pension has actually decreased. The cost of living and the rise in prices have been faster than the rise in pensions. The last one's just gotten in the way of the cost of living. The majority of older people's income goes to pay for food, housing and medicines, and it is the increase in prices that has been greatest. For these items, the average price increase between 2008 and now has been slightly above EUR 90, with the average pension rising slightly above EUR 40. Our older families, as well as those raising low-paid children, would certainly benefit greatly by raising the minimum rate of income tax-free. Why is it that the good ideas that are spoken out and the drafts that have been passed as a law really only help half? I would like to mention, for example, the need-based family allowance, the need-based education allowance and the increase in pensions. Beautiful endeavors, but help from them comes out, not much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-16_U32	Thank you. There's no more calls. Thank you very much, colleagues. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 4.01 p.m.
