ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-13_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the 14th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. First of all, I ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-13_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the law on ambient air protection and related amendments to other laws. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-13_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-13_U4	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'd like to introduce you to the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool. A number of members of the Centre Party are interested in practical learning tools, tools and safety at work. I'm sure you'll still remember your schoolwork and technology class, which you could do nice things for Mother's Day, if not for Mother's Day. I'm sure it's been appropriate, and last Sunday it was so much fun except for the mothers, maybe the grandmothers and the aunts. Unfortunately, the school's tools are quite costly, and those teachers of work education and work technology who could be proud of their classes are quite few. Happily, a public procurement was carried out in the past, but these funds have now largely lived their lives. As a result, we wonder whether the Ministry of Education and Research is planning to make teachers and, of course, children and young people happy and to organise another public procurement, or whether there are other ways of acquiring teaching resources. We are also interested in how we plan to improve the classrooms as a working environment. The main problem is the ventilation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-13_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted a bill and an inquiry. If the bill complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board will decide on the procedure in three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. Now I'll give you the following messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure in the Social Democratic Party's Group. a draft law amending the Gender Equality Act, launched on 9 May, and appointed by the Constitutional Commission as the lead committee. I have forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. The members of the Riigikogu have formed a union of transit and logistics. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 78 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 23. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda will be on your desks and I will put it to the vote. Please vote! 74 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention. The agenda is confirmed. Let's go to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-13_U6	Since there are no questions, please register after my hammer strike to speak in a free microphone! Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-13_U7	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, mothers were recognized, given speeches, sung, and the wife of Hiiumaa, the mother of the year, who is the mother of 17 children, was also chosen. I'm going to say "mom" on purpose, because that's what 12 fosterers have called him. In fact, for each family, the mother of the year is the one who's busy with their family, who wakes up first, sleeps last, and only half a fork. Surely, the close ones with a bouquet of flowers also remembered the mothers whose earthly path had ended and who, just as good guardian angels, were watching and keeping their loved ones. In addition to joy and recognition, the president also pointed out concerns. Let me quote: 'We have spoken of those to whom being a mother and a child has become an economic, physical and, above all, a spiritual burden. We're talking about the care of our own people. We are talking about families where there is pain and pain alongside joy. This subject is so painful and so important that it must be spoken of honestly. The way things are. ' Let's be honest. Today we are in a situation where the organisation of the care and care of the relatives is throwing a duty to pay a place tax as a ball between the state and the municipalities, and ultimately this heavy obligation falls on children and grandchildren. This is in a situation where the self-retirement of an elderly person (and also in the case of a person receiving an average Estonian pension) covers only 60% of the place tax in a welfare institution, where the place fee for a nursing home is between 500 and 1300 euros, and the care development plan for the years 2004 to 2015 has not been completed. In the case of current arrangements, or rather lack of organisation, care treatment will continue to squeal. At present, people are being treated for health insurance money, but care is paid by municipalities, the state or people in need of care, along with loved ones themselves. At some point, a person may need both treatment and care at the same time, in the same place, be it a home or an establishment. In order to complete the development plan for care care care, the government, municipalities and the health insurance fund should sit at one table and develop a single development plan for care care care, a system with a financing model and liquidate public debt, especially towards the older generation. A functioning system would certainly be one way to ease the heavy burden on the caretakers. I am concerned that more than EUR 33 million of the European Union's structural funds for the period 2014-2020, which the Minister of Social Affairs has spoken about today, will be used fairly and correctly. Only the creation of places will not solve the problem if it is not clear how payment is distributed. In countries where not all responsibility lies with children and grandchildren, this certainly does not mean that people there love their parents less or less. On the contrary, people living there sense that their country is both happy and concerned with them. They have no fear for the future when they give birth or when they get old. I very much hope that the draft Social Democrats, which awaits a second reading in the Riigikogu, will release those parents who are unable to work because of the care of a disabled child from the obligation to repay the student loan, will arrive in this hall. It is sad that this Committee on Culture was excluded from the agenda of this week, but we hope that it will not be put on the shelf simply because the initiator is wrong. I am pleased that issues such as caring for relatives, caring and organising health care have found a wider debate in society and perhaps they will also find a solution. Finally, I will repeat what has been said in the speech of the President's Mother's Day. Before the forthcoming elections, the president called for reflection and thought whether the current joint contribution would be sufficient. Perhaps there is a need to find additional resources to alleviate the difficult situation of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-13_U8	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask my colleague, Inara Luigas, from the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-13_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today is such a short agenda that it feels bold to come to the remote to talk about the issues that are on the heart. There's a topic I've been talking about several times, but it's been a long time now. Once again, I would like to mention the problems that are harassing us in South-East Estonia, one being the taxation of fuel at the border, and the other is the waiting price. Why am I talking about these things again today? Because this week, 16 and 17 May, the Special Committee on State Budget Control will hold an exit session in South-East Estonia. On May 16, we will visit Värska Gymnasium, where we will meet with the head of the school, the chairman of Värska parish and Värska Vallavolikogu, and we will also have a meeting at the Koidula border crossing. The Estonian state has spent a very large amount on the construction of the Koidula border railway station, but this station has far from found a 100% application. The National Budget Control Committee is going to look into why not all railway track pairs have found use, what obstacles are in Estonian and Russian trade, and how they should overcome the role of the Estonian state in this. Now, in Koidula, Rando Kruusmaa, Deputy Head of the Migration and Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, will present a presentation on the regulation of the fees for waiting areas in the border guard area. We, as well as those who travel from Estonia to Russia and return from Russia to Estonia, are not satisfied with the fact that this fuel is still taxed at the border. Although the law has not been amended, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board has determined and force them to take tax at random from these people and there are also cases where Estonian citizens have been sent back to Russia from the Estonian state border. This is not only a violation of excise and other laws, it is a violation of the Estonian Constitution. We are by no means satisfied with the imposition of a standstill fee. I will give you another example today. The vehicle owner planned the border crossing and paid both the booking fee and the waiting area fee. Once entered the border zone, he didn't stop, he didn't use any waiting area service, but he also paid a waiting area fee. What passengers pay for is still unclear. The Chancellor of Justice has also stressed that such a standstill fee is completely unacceptable and cannot be taken by a private company in such a case. Urmas Koidu, Head of Customs Department of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, will take a look at the customs arrangements. All members of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, nine of them, will take part in the kick-off session. I want to make one more news here. Many people ask what happened to all these cases. People have turned to court, but there are no solutions yet. It is now known that all legal proceedings have been suspended, the Supreme Court has collected all the applications and sent them to the European Court of Justice, who must make a preliminary ruling on them and send them back to Estonia. Maybe then we'll find out if passengers have broken the law or if the Tax and Customs Board has broken the law. I would like to say so much to the press that all those citizens who stand up for their rights do not want to bring fuel in like contraband. Everything they do is regulated by law, and it is possible that only the Estonian Tax and Customs Board and those private companies that have signed contracts with the Estonian Ministry of Internal Affairs are breaking the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-13_U10	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. Our hearing is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 3.16 p.m.
