ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the seventh working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It can be said that during the last year there has been a certain movement, change and awakening in Estonian society; civil society has started to intervene vigorously in the day-to-day debate. The fact that people want to participate and participate in the day-to-day organisation of our state life is only to be welcomed, because the slackness and unwillingness of citizens to speak in shaping political processes is a sign of stagnation and perhaps even a sign of decline. The Centre Party wants to contribute to the activation of civil society and to give the people of Estonia more strength and courage. It was only a while ago that I stood before you when I handed over the draft direct election of the President to Parliament's proceedings. Now the Centre Party Group is taking the next step and is putting forward a draft law that would legitimise the popular initiative. Our draft stipulates that at least 25000 citizens with a right to vote can submit a draft law to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. With this legislative amendment, we hope to ease the political motivation of the people and, as has been said, to revive civil society. The idea of legitimising the popular initiative was also widely supported by the public assembly. The People's Assembly has pointed out that the comments that accompany the proposals for a popular initiative are perceived as people's desire to participate more in state policy-making in the inter-election period. Ladies and gentlemen, The Centre Party Group will give this draft law to the procedure with the wish to launch a broad and inclusive debate on the regularisation of the popular initiative. This is one step towards improving the health of Estonian democracy and bringing the entire Estonian people closer to policy making. I hope that you will take this draft seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U3	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to transfer on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs the draft law amending the status of a member of the Riigikogu and other laws. Its content is the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu and its implementation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also declares that it will withdraw the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated on 18 April 2012, in accordance with its decision of 28 February 2012. Today's draft deals with two things: the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu on the one hand and the application and granting of security authorisations for members of the Riigikogu on the other. The issue of immunity of a member of the Riigikogu has been on the agenda for a long time. This results from the fact that there is one separate sentence in the Constitution which applies only to members of the Riigikogu. This means that a member of the Riigikogu is untouchable. This principle has led to various interpretation difficulties and further difficulties in application. Our draft is trying to set out what is understood by immunity, how it will be implemented and when it will be implemented. We hope for your support and a meaningful debate on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. The Management Board decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Now to the messages. On Wednesday 13 March, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu and Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. 88 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, there is no 13. Let's clarify the agenda. Today's latest item on the agenda, i.e. the draft law amending the Citizenship Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, is presented at first reading by Yana Toom, Member of the Riigikogu, on behalf of the initiator.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U6	Let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the second reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Constitution of the Riigikogu Committee on Investigation' presented by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the members of the Riigikogu Deniss Borodichi, Kalle Laaneti, Lembit Kaljuvee and Rainer Vakra in order to determine the circumstances in which the claims are processed and settled by the VEB Fund. I would like a presentation by Peep Aru, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U7	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, For the second reading of the draft debate, we had a debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 28 February. As we know, in this Chamber, we set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 21 February, and a proposal was received by that time. It was submitted by the Reform Party Group and its content was such that it was proposed to submit the final report of the Committee of Inquiry to the Riigikogu and the public by 2 December 2013. In the original option, this deadline was 1 October. The Commission discussed this and decided to support the proposal in part. This is partly because the Commission has made a significant addition: the report should be submitted by 2 December at the latest. This means that, if the Commission does its work quickly and becomes clear earlier, of course, the final report can also be submitted before 2 December. Both amendments, both partially incorporated and the Commission's proposal, were voted on and the results were the same: 6 in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. The draft was decided to send a second reading to this hall today and take the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U8	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U9	Good waitress, maybe you'll let us know who was against and who was impartial?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U10	The protocol doesn't have it personally fixed, and if I respond by memory, I might be wrong. I don't want to offend any good colleagues when I suddenly leave someone off the list.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U11	Thank you. Any more questions? There are no questions. Thanks a lot, Peep Aru! Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U12	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all of you from the bottom of my heart. I would remind you that when the Democratic Union made an inquiry into this matter to the Governor of Eesti Pank, many people in this Chamber considered this subject to be taboos. It was claimed to have nothing to do with possible conspiracy theories. I am pleased that both the Commission and all political parties have supported this theme, this debate in this Chamber, so that society can understand clearly what has happened. I quote Auditor General Mihkel Oviir, who said that the National Audit Office had already been prepared in 2004 to contribute to explaining matters relating to the VEB Fund, but Parliament did not consider this necessary at the time. At the moment, it seems to be the attitude of society and Parliament that the VEB Fund should, however, be identified with maximum clarity. Of course, the National Audit Office is also prepared to contribute to this clarification. But again: I am very pleased that the situation has changed since 2004 and Parliament wants to bring light to this confused story of Eesti Pank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U13	Thank you. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Amendment 1 Amendment 2: The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of the draft 368 and to adopt the draft as a decision. Let us move to the preparation of the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Riigikogu Committee on Investigation' presented by the Estonian Central Party Group, the Estonian Reform Party Group, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, the Social Democratic Party Group and the members of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi, Kalle Laanet, Lembit Kaljuvee and Rainer Vakra in order to determine the circumstances in which the claims are processed and met by the VEB Fund. Please take a stand and vote. 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U14	The second item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Appointing a Member of the Council of the National Library of Estonia" submitted by the Committee on Culture. I ask for a presentation by the Chair of the Committee on Culture, Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U15	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Riigikogu Committee on Culture on 12 February, the Riigikogu decided to submit a draft decision to the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the council of the Estonian National Library. The council of our National Library consists of seven members, three of whom are members of the Riigikogu, appointed by the Riigikogu on the proposal of the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu. Since 15 May 2011, the members of the Riigikogu Mart Meri, Igor Gräzin and Kaia Iva are members of the National Library Council, whose term of office in the Council is four years. My colleague, Ms Iva, asked the Committee on Culture to resign from the Council. Thus, his mandate ends before the deadline and the Riigikogu must appoint a new member of the Council on the proposal of the Cultural Committee on the basis of § 8 (7) of the Estonian National Library Act until the end of the term of office of the member of the Supervisory Board to be replaced, i.e. the end of the work of the Riigikogu. The Cultural Commission agreed to the proposal of the Isamaa and Res Publica Association to appoint Reet Roos as a member of the Board of the National Library of Estonia. The mandate of Kaia Iva ends with the entry into force of the mandate of Reet Roos. On 26 February, the Committee on Culture decided to appoint a representative of the Commission to this issue and to send a draft decision on the agenda of the plenary session by 12 March, to propose that the draft be put to the final vote and adopted as a decision. All decisions have been taken by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U16	Thank you. Arto Asa has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U17	Good waitress, did the Commission also mention which issues the new member of the Council should pay more attention to? There has been talk about the planning capacity and accounting capacity of the National Library.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U18	That's not what we were talking about. I believe that my colleague, Mrs Iva, will bring her successor to the Council up to date with the situation and that the Committee on Culture will always be able to advise Reet Roos on what to pay attention to. So I believe that in the good cooperation that the members of the Riigikogu have done so far in the Council, this mission will continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U19	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U20	Good waitress! I'm sure this is a very good candidate, and I support him. The question is this: when you considered the candidates, did the Committee on Culture have any criteria for reading a person who could belong to a library council?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U21	There was no mention of it, but of course I assume that this person will be able to read both traditional paper books and monitor the development of electronic tools and read with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U22	Any more questions? No, it's not. Thank you very much for the waitress. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. There were no amendments to this draft, and we will go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote to the final vote on the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Council of the National Library of Estonia 381. Please take a stand and vote. 70 delegates voted in favour, and no one was against or impartial. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U23	The third item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre, submitted by the Committee on the Environment. The presentation is presented by Erki Nool, Chairman of the Environment Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The submission of a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre was discussed in the Environment Committee on Tuesday 26 February. After the result of the vote, it was decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that Jaanus Tamkivi be appointed a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. The decision was consensual. Secondly, it was decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the first reading of the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday 12 March, i.e. today. Thirdly, it was decided to propose to the assembly that the draft be put to the final vote and adopted by the Riigikogu as a decision. It was also a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U25	Thank you. Let's get to the questions and answers. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U26	Good waitress! This draft law, which is now at first reading, appoints Jaanus Tamkivi RMK as a member of the Supervisory Board instead of Tõnis Lukas. I took the list of members of the Supervisory Board on the RMK website and there Jaanus Tamkivi is already a member of the Supervisory Board of RMK and Tõnis Lukas is no longer there. Why would that be? And do you think we have a reason to vote in this Chamber when Jaanus Tamkivi has already been appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board on the RMK website without the decision of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U27	There is certainly reason to vote, as this draft has been tabled. It's probably not always the fastest computer. The minister has called Jaanus Tamkivi back from being a member of the Supervisory Board of RMK and we can rename him as a member of the Supervisory Board of RMK by the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U28	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U29	Mr President of the Commission. Indeed, on the day the Committee on the Environment decided to appoint Jaanus Tamkivi as a member of the Supervisory Board by the Riigikogu, he was also a member of the Supervisory Board appointed by the Minister. Perhaps you can explain the reasons why the minister lost confidence in Jaanus Tamkivi and why the Riigikogu should have confidence in Jaanus Tamkivi?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U30	I think you could ask for a more detailed explanation in Question Time if the minister is in front of the Riigikogu. I don't know exactly how to answer that to you. You yourself attended the meeting of the Committee on the Environment and know that the Committee on the Environment had received two proposals that could be appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. These were Jaanus Tamkivi, who had been presented by the Reform Party, and Rainer Vakra. So between these two people, we started choosing. The vote was secret and after the result of the vote, it was decided to submit the candidacy of Jaanus Tamkivi.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U31	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U32	Who were the candidates proposed by the Central Party and the Social Democratic Party factions to the RMK Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U33	No one was presented by the Centre Party Group. As I was just saying, we had two candidates, and between these two candidates we chose. I repeat: there were two candidates, and he who received the most votes was decided to nominate a member of the Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U34	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U35	Good chairman of the committee! As far as I was concerned, at the time the Commission discussed the submission of a new member, the same person was still not formally recalled by the Minister. Are you sure today that the Minister has called him back? Have you seen this decree?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U36	I am absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U37	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U38	Honourable waitress! Do you generally consider it logical and rational to have a system in which the Riigikogu, according to the law, appoints members of the Riigikogu as members of the Supervisory Board, while the Minister may also appoint members of the Riigikogu to the seats of the members of the Supervisory Board appointed by him? That's what caused this mess. Do you think it's a good system, or do you think it needs to be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U39	There are many convoluted developments in politics that are often not understood. I think that's enough. Since you've been in politics much longer than I have, you're probably better able to orient yourself in these twists than I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U40	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U41	Chairman of the Committee on the Environment! Tõnis Lukas' name is no longer available on the RMK website. In fact, the name change should take place when the next member of the Riigikogu has been approved by the Riigikogu. Is Tõnis Lukas currently a member of the Council or not? Or for what reason has he been erased so quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U42	I can't tell you why his name has been erased so quickly. But since Tõnis Lukas was presented by the Riigikogu as a member of the Supervisory Board of RMK and is no longer a member of the Riigikogu, his mandate as a member of the Supervisory Board of RMK has also ended.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U43	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U44	Good chairman of the committee! It is such a practice in developed democracies that, in order to ensure that the decisions of elected bodies are as sustainable as possible and that they are made with due regard to continuity, historical memory and the universal representation of the will of voters, representatives of both the coalition and the opposition are always elected to these councils, including the councils. As far as I know, there are no representatives of the opposition in the RMK Council. Do you think it's normal, or could you think in terms of being represented on one side of the hall and the other side of the hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U45	The political perspective is certainly bright. As far as democracy is concerned, the representative of the opposition has, unfortunately, obtained a two vote worse result in a democratic vote, which was secret, and that is why this decision was born. Everything was very democratic.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U46	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Erki Arrow! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. No amendments to this draft decision were tabled. Let's get to the final vote. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 387 and to adopt it as a decision. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre 387. Please take a stand and vote. 43 delegates voted in favour, 21 against and no abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U47	The fourth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I would like to present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U48	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Let me introduce to the large Chamber of Riigikogu draft 295, which is the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws, which has received a great deal of attention in terms of volume and content. I dare to say in advance that the biggest impact of the draft so far has been the fact that there is an expert group on the Code of Criminal Procedure at the Ministry of Justice, which discusses the problems and issues highlighted in our draft, as well as those raised by other parties. But now to bill 295. The purpose of the draft law is to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure in particular in such a way as to comply with the minimum rights laid down in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms for suspects or accused persons. The general principles set out in the current Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as the regulation of pre-trial and judicial proceedings and the conduct of surveillance activities, do not sufficiently guarantee these minimum rights in criminal proceedings. On this basis, we want to amend the general provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure in such a way that the current principle of legality with an absolute and paternalistic nature is abolished at the start of criminal proceedings. This will ensure that a lower sanction rate for secondary offences is not an obligation for the investigating authority or the prosecutor's office to start criminal proceedings, but is based on the interest of the victim or the public. The absolute obligation to process is certainly burdensome, also requiring a very large resource. The released resource can be used to deal with more serious crimes. As a result, I hope that this problem will be reduced by the abolition of private prosecution in criminal matters and by the application of the absolute principle of legal certainty, the number of persons who have been subjected to criminal penalties has exploded. That is why this is a very large bill. A number of prominent lawyers were involved in the preparation of this draft, dealing with shortcomings in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Protecting fundamental rights and freedoms plays an important role in the country that guarantees people's rights. That is why it is equally important that the fundamental rights and freedoms of a person are restricted in relation to a state and an individual only in cases of necessity. Attorney-at-law, Leon Glikman, quite recently in the Riigikogu, has pointed out a number of cases where people have been forced to endure a very long investigation, pursuit and search of the prosecutor's office. At the same time, access restrictions apply to investigations carried out by the prosecutor's office, which do not allow the subject to obtain exhaustive information. Often, even a person does not know why he is under investigation. At the same time, it is not possible for a person to defend himself adequately. Estonia also has long deadlines for criminal investigations, as confirmed by the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights against Estonia. If a person is under criminal investigation for years, his reputation suffers and possibly loses his or her job or income. It is precisely the extremely lengthy procedure that may be the reason why, in the end, the evidence of conviction can no longer be collected or why the charge will eventually be prepared in a hasty and superficial manner. Either way, there are cases where there's nothing to be followed by a criminal investigation except that a person's reputation and his whole life have been ruined. This is what the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms has built up, after all, that in relations between a state and an individual with a weaker party, a state can intervene to a limited extent in the fundamental rights and freedoms of a person, and only if it is unavoidable. In Estonia, the fundamental rights and freedoms of people who have been subjected to very long criminal investigations, tracing and searches have been violated to an extent contrary to international human rights. After all, the pursuit procedure is a direct violation of fundamental rights and freedoms. Therefore, allowing tracking, duration, third party involvement in the surveillance procedure must be the subject of our continuous analysis. The Strasbourg Court of Human Rights has set out in several of its decisions the principles to which the fundamental rights and freedoms of people may be restricted. Of course, any court settlement is only mandatory for the country against which it has been imposed, but it is clear from the case-law and analysis of the Human Rights Court that there are shortcomings in our criminal proceedings. A number of references and analyses have been made in Estonia; among other things, a member of the Riigikogu has done so, Mr Rait Maruste. The fundamental rights of people and their fundamental principles must be clearly stated in the law for reasons of legal clarity. The purpose of the draft is therefore to carry out a broad analysis of the criminal proceedings in Estonia, rather than to discuss only a few provisions of the Code. The main thing is to analyse the decisions of the courts. For example, we are taking the case of Leas vs. Estonia, where protection was restricted to the information collected in the surveillance process and the person did not have sufficient means of defending himself. This violated, inter alia, the principle of equality between the parties. The Human Rights Court pointed out an infringement of Article 6 of the Convention. Article 6 provides that the guarantee of a fair trial is that it is possible to prepare for protection and to have equal knowledge and opportunities with the prosecutor, which requires familiarisation with surveillance activities, in order to be able to question the evidence of the opposite party and to obtain information on the evidence to be justified. The Court of Human Rights stressed that the fundamental basis of the right to a fair trial is that criminal proceedings, including procedural elements, must be competitive and the principle of equality of parties must prevail in the case of prosecutors and defence. However, this is not an absolute right. Measures restricting the rights of the defence that are strictly necessary are permitted under the Convention: the need to preserve state secrets, police secret methods or the need to avoid violating the rights of third parties. The current Code of Criminal Procedure does not guarantee the rights of defence to access the evidence collected. I will also give an example of the case of Veber v. Estonia, which revealed shortcomings in criminal proceedings in the case of search procedures. The police's search and receipt of documents at the premises of the person's company violated the rights of the appellant under Article 8 of the Convention. According to the Strasbourg Human Rights Court judgment, the Estonian law enforcement system does not provide sufficient effective protection against police search and document processing, as provided for in Article 13 of the Convention. Where a person is arrested, it must be ensured throughout the criminal proceedings that persons are held in custody only if and only for as long as it is really necessary to ensure criminal proceedings. Long-term detention currently practiced is not always justified and the requests for release are not examined quickly enough. The current regulation does not provide the accused with an opportunity to appeal quickly. One more change might be made. This is an amendment to the setting of time limits for pre-trial proceedings. Several lawyers have pointed out the problem that criminal proceedings can be dealt with in principle no matter how long, as there are no time limits in pre-trial proceedings. The European Convention on Human Rights and the judicial decisions make it very clear that the procedure must take place within a reasonable period of time. Unfortunately, Estonia's practice shows that it is wrong. In the discussions of the expert group set up at the Ministry of Justice, the State Attorney General Norman Aas acknowledged that there was a serious problem with the deadlines for pre-trial investigations in Estonia. However, he stressed that research institutions are already working on the limits of their ability to work. Norman Aas considered that the Riigikogu should therefore necessarily analyse whether to increase the financial and human resources, simplify the procedure or reduce the number of pending cases. I would certainly like to point out here the problem that the Chancellor of Justice has repeatedly referred to - that is the responsibility of the State. In the event that a person has suffered unjustified and perhaps very long-term suffering as a result of a violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, a system of state liability must function. In Estonia, despite the Supreme Court's decisions and repeated appeals by the Chancellor of Justice, it has not yet been created. To conclude with this introductory overview, it is quite appropriate to say that the Riigikogu has a very big job both in resolving the problem set out in Bill 295 and in creating responsibility for the state. On several points, the opinions and analyses of experts published on this same draft 295 show that our Code of Criminal Procedure is not good enough. The question was raised in the Riigikogu committee that criminal proceedings have already been amended several times, with the latest changes being quite recent. This is particularly the case with surveillance activities. Allow me once again to refer to the panel of experts on the review of criminal proceedings. The representatives of the Supreme Court, the prosecutor's office and also the barrister's office stated that the latest changes have certainly brought criminal proceedings closer to European principles on the one hand, but on the other they believe that work on this subject must definitely continue. Unfortunately, the parties must also agree that the solution of the problem outlined in our draft needs further work, certainly with a detailed approach. From the outset, the objective of bill 295 has been to draw on examples of international practice the moments that are a problem in Estonian criminal proceedings. These are also problems in the light of the resolutions of the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights and we certainly need our additional attention. Draft 295 may not, by its provisions, give the measure of a uniform and compact law, but it reflects the moments on which to continue work, both in the Commission and in the parallel working groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U49	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U50	Good waitress! You also mentioned that the state prosecutor is not satisfied with the criminal procedure and that one possibility is, in his view, to simplify the whole process. Are there any suggestions on how to make criminal proceedings easier in the material you received from the prosecutor's office?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U51	Good questioner! Indeed, the state prosecutor's written opinion highlights the current shortcomings, as well as the very clear position of the prosecutor's office that one solution could be to simplify the procedure. At the same time, the prosecutor's office stresses that the procedure does not need to be simplified if there is sufficient human and financial resources. I dare not say whether the prosecutor's office would prefer one, the other or the third, he has given it to the legislative power to decide. But yes, deadlines are a problem: according to the state prosecutor, law enforcement authorities are already working on the limits of their abilities. He first mentioned the need for additional resources and also expressed the opinion that if the resource was not sufficient, something else would have to be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U52	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U53	Dear waitress, The shortcomings of the criminal proceedings that you have spoken about are indeed there. Our procedure has been unfortunately somewhat inquisitory so far. The changes that have been made over time have been eclectic and have not always been in line with the international convention and the principles of the competitive procedure you referred to. My question is: how do you imagine the further progress of this draft, so that it can really be done properly and on the basis of one ideology?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U54	Good questioner! First of all, I would like to say that it is certainly extremely interesting to analyse the rulings on which you yourself have been holding the Presidency. However, as regards the technical aspects of the draft procedure, there are two options. One is to discuss the problems presented in the draft at the very committee of experts set up by the Ministry of Justice. The second option is much more ambitious and you are certainly well aware of it. The Ministry of Justice could, on the basis of experts, come up with a full new criminal procedure. That, too, would be the ideal solution for these very lawyers. The biggest drawback of criminal proceedings is that we are very likely to talk about some sort of couple of years. This is certainly not a fast process. At the moment, however, we need to monitor what the expert group on criminal law is doing to ensure that these two groups do not step on a different footing. In this sense, we do not foresee any further procedure for the urgent draft 295. However, both the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should certainly look at whether there are moments that should be changed in this draft and in the whole opinion package, which has been prepared very thoroughly by the parties, including the Ministry. Perhaps one or another provision that is currently hindering work should be taken immediately and, at the same time, work on a comprehensive reform in parallel. The practice of the Riigikogu has generally shown that when a general package law comes, it is always better. It must also be taken into account that the criminal law reform is also under way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U55	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U56	Good waitress, good colleague! It must be acknowledged that this bill really draws attention to many shortcomings in our criminal proceedings, such as the issue of legality and deadlines. At the same time, there are a number of provisions in the draft concerning the restriction of the cross-use of evidence, the restriction of surveillance activities in the case of first-degree crimes, in essence corruption crimes, are then excluded, as well as the desire to restrict the right of appeal of the prosecutor's office. I have a specific question. All the three examples I have brought to mind are criminal cases in court or even in criminal investigations concerning the activities of politicians from several political parties over the years. Is there no hidden desire behind this bill to solve problems in these matters or to take down risks in the possible following cases relating to corruption and policy making?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U57	The public interest is certainly extremely high not only in the affairs of well-known politicians, but also in the activities of businessmen or of well-known people at all, and always exceeds the news threshold. That's why these cases are well known. With regard to this draft, both Mr Glikman and the other advocates involved spoke of their cases in a totally impersonal manner, without reference to specific persons, which are not so well known to the public, but which, in their view, brought out the most serious shortcomings. Why, however, did I also refer in my report to international law, to the case-law of the Court of Human Rights? Because that's where our deficits sometimes draw out the most neutrally. I would like to sum up your question in this way. As the representative of the Supreme Court very rightly said: if you look at the current criminal proceedings , then it tends to be a bit inclined towards the prosecutor's office. In that case, it is understandable that the bill will be presented by the one who is trying to push the pendulum to the other side. The task of the Riigikogu is to find a very good middle ground where people's rights and fundamental freedoms are protected, but at the same time we do not commute from one wall to another. We're trying to find an adequate balance here. I also mentioned in the Commission that there has been quite a lot of debate about the right of appeal of the prosecutor's office in other post-Soviet countries. I am making a reference here to the Venice Commission's opinion on the reform of the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office, which I read recently. The Venice Commission explained very clearly why they requested the right of appeal from the prosecutor's office in Ukraine. The aim was to break the very clear social power of the prosecutor's office and to oblige them to state that if a person has received his or her right at first instance, where the hearing of witnesses and the analysis of evidence take place, the state has basically used up its resources and that a person in second instance cannot lose his or her rights again. Is it necessary to make such a strong breakthrough in Estonia, whether we have a social understanding that the state has more rights? This is the place of analysis. We need to analyse whether or not we have developed enough in 20 years. Our proposal is perhaps quite bold in many ways, but we think it is necessary. Whether the majority of the Riigikogu finds it that way is shown by the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U58	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U59	Good waitress! Life has shown that when a criminal case is initiated according to the law in force, people who are directly involved may be crucified, or convicted, by the public. Hence my question: should law enforcement authorities not be given more time to collect material before taking a decision to initiate a criminal case or not? Once a criminal case has been initiated, people tend to be convicted immediately. Perhaps there should be an opportunity to discuss more and consider whether a criminal case needs to be initiated or not. Did you deal with this when you prepared the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U60	I dare to refer here to the opinion on the draft that came from the bar Association. The Attorney General also pointed out in his very in-depth analysis that a number of their clients have been convicted in society before suspicion or accusation has been made. That's just when they're known people. On the basis of its practice, the lawyer made the same proposal as we stressed in our draft: these actions must take place as soon as possible precisely because the violation of the individual's rights and freedoms would be minimised. Do you need more time for law enforcement? Perhaps not, we have very different regulations in cases of varying degrees of severity, and we do not consider it necessary to amend it. But pre-trial procedures must, of course, be quite cautious, because public opinion is really beginning to emerge from the moment the first act is carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U61	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U62	Before Mailis Reps can answer, I, the honourable Riigikogu, am pleased to say that the President of the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, His Excellency, Mr Josip Leko, who is present today, has arrived at the balcony of diplomats. Let's say hello! [[Let's hear it.]] And we can continue. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U63	Good waitress! I am not going to assess whether this is good or not, but the problem is certainly that our trial, our judicial procedure, is in competition in criminal matters and the investigation prior to it is strictly inquisitional. Do you see a problem also in the fact that the prosecution's duties are primarily to supervise, manage and subsequently before the courts the prosecution's investigations, but no law really states that the prosecution's duties should be linked precisely to establishing objective truth?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U64	Indeed, as you referred to in your question, the problem is. If things have already come to the court at the same time, we point out as a problem that, unfortunately, they are not always there, as we know about shining and non-rare cases, then at the stage of the pre-trial procedure, a number of procedural procedures may be those for which the party concerned's right of defence and access to information is not sufficiently guaranteed. One of the things we bring out in Bill 295, which is worth analysing, is the question of the possibility of a private charge if the victim reaches an agreement or does not want to give up the procedure. We think the DA's office should relax these demands a little bit. At the same time, as you know very well as an expert in the field of justice, we must certainly be careful about this possible relaxation and think about how we define this circle of persons, where this is the limit, for example, in the case of relations violence, etc. In any case, specific cases should be examined separately. The Government of the Republic has criticised draft 295 that in some provisions we have proposed an overly simplified approach. Mr Anvelt also pointed out that certain risks remain for certain types of crime. But our task after the first reading is to discuss and clarify the shortcomings of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U65	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U66	Honourable author of the bill! When I hear such discussions, it is simple questions that come to mind. I ask you this: why do you think it is right that, in lighter cases of corruption, for example, when an official takes bribes, surveillance should no longer be allowed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U67	We were discussing the cases that gentlemen of the jury brought us an example. In their opinion, surveillance activities have sometimes been disproportionate, have lasted for a very long time and have disrupted the daily work of relatively large companies. We found their views justified. Surveillance procedures can continue to be carried out on the basis of the draft, with the very clear permission of the court to a certain extent and with regard to certain persons, but we want to limit the interference between simplified and third parties in the case of surveillance activities. The question of electronic evidence certainly needs to be analysed. Surveillance activities are not only affected by corruption crimes, the circle of persons whose rights and freedoms may be restricted by them is much wider. If, after the first reading by the Commission and the Group of Experts, it is found that the provisions on certain restrictions are either too restrictive or simplified, the Government of the Republic also thought so, then we should set out in the draft certain cases that do not fall under the restriction. I believe that cooperation between the Group of Experts and the Committee on Legal Affairs is fruitful.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U68	Thank you. Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U69	Good waitress! One of the problems raised by your draft is disproportionately lengthy procedures. You are proposing to set procedural deadlines, and I personally think that this is also right. But as far as we received feedback from the Committee on Legal Affairs, all parties took a negative view of this. As a surprise to me, the bar Association didn't think it was right either. At the same time, you mentioned that the lawyers who advised you made such a proposal. Can you comment on that? Were the arguments against the time limits for proceedings convincing?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U70	When it comes to setting deadlines, when we look at national practices, it is quite different. There are countries where they are very specific, and there are countries that are monitoring in their case-law that action is taken within a reasonable period of time. Their so-called normal monitoring units are working so well that there are relatively few breaches of rights. The main argument why time limits were not supported was that they would be formally extended in court. The deadline will be fulfilled, but there will be an opportunity to'stamp' the extension of the deadlines in court and there will be absolutely nothing going on. I believe that there is no one here in the Riigikogu who does not understand that we certainly do not mean the possibility of a simplified extension in the case of a proposal to set deadlines. The deadlines agreed with the experts would be long enough so that, as a general rule, operations should be carried out within that period. And in certain cases, they may be extended. The simplified option of an official starting somewhere in court to extend the deadlines for extra money, we certainly do not support it. What solutions do we foresee? I believe that, in part, this draft has already done its work on the subject of being put on the table very clearly; the Ministry of Justice has made it one of its priorities, it is being dealt with. Whether we can reach deadlines or clearly agree on a precedent level, which is a reasonable deadline in Estonia, this is indicated by the time. However, I would prefer to set deadlines and quite clear provisions, in which case they can be extended. In this case, the possibility of a simplified extension must be ruled out; there must be a convincing justification for the postponement.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U71	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U72	Say, Mailis, please, next thing! With regard to surveillance activities, the main problem is that these operations are not properly organised, are done in front of the case, behind you, listen to everything and everyone when there is only free time, etc. Would this problem go away if we could fix a standard according to which the information collected through surveillance activities cannot be evidence in criminal proceedings? I mean, there's a tracking operation, they're gonna get that hoodlum, and that's it. But if this goes to trial, you can't use that wire.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U73	Good questioner! I'd say two ways. First of all, of course, with such a provision, we must also provide for exceptions. In some cases, it may be essential for the public, for the sake of our general regime. But I'll answer differently. Even if the tape cannot be used in court, it usually does its job on newspaper columns. In Estonia, the system will be operational even before the trial. In this sense, the interference with surveillance activities affects people very badly through the public.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U74	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U75	The end of the previous answer was very interesting! How do you intend to run the media with this law? This is gonna be interesting. But from the answer to my first question, I realized that somewhere you have an idea that maybe you could take the bill back and rewrite it. I'll keep asking about the same thing. The usual pursuit is that you send an authorized employee to buy a small amount for a drug dealer, and then the dealer is arrested. According to your bill, you couldn't do it again. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U76	Good questioner! I'm sure we're not going to withdraw the bill. As I said, the draft has already caused a great deal of discussion on issues that need to be discussed in society before the first reading. As a result, a number of bottlenecks in legal practice have been drawn up. But what did I want to stress? The opinions of both the Group and other parties have pointed out, as you have pointed out here today, and which was also stated in the Committee on Legal Affairs, that, for example, with the wording on second-degree crimes, we may in turn restrict the rights and freedoms of those whose rights have just been protected by certain exceptions. I would like to emphasise once again that, in the course of the future procedure, we will certainly see the possibility of providing for certain exceptions to one or the other provision. In the case of drug crime, as the Minister has repeatedly pointed out here on the remote, there are a number of problems that also concern surveillance activities. Perhaps we need to consider whether surveillance activity in Estonia is proportionate to its broad format. You were talking about dealers. Very often, there is a situation where a disproportionate number of people are being questioned because of one of the supposed dealers, and perhaps their rights and freedoms are being unduly violated. These are questions that we must certainly discuss here in the Riigikogu, and this was also discussed in the expert group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U77	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U78	I am of the opinion that the procedure for this bill must not prevent the investigation of drug crimes. I want to ask you this way. Since my previous offices have brought me together to investigate criminal matters, I have also been going to extend their deadlines. In some capacity, I have also extended the time limits for the investigation of criminal matters to the investigators themselves. I'm curious how compromising you are. Perhaps there is some way to make changes to the deadlines that have been proposed so that it does not become purely formal? But yes, the extension must certainly be justified and there must be control over what the investigator did not do in time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U79	Good questioner! As far as our willingness to compromise is concerned, perhaps I was not clear enough to answer the previous question. Our aim is not to prevent corruption, drugs or other organised crime from being resolved in Estonia, but to point out that we do not want the proportionality of restricting people's rights and freedoms. Is it ready to discuss deadlines? Of course it is, because our wish to draw up this bill was to draw up a circle of questions to deal with further. With regard to any provision, we see no reason to insist that it should remain in this exact wording. There are still enough arguments here to discuss much wider issues in relation to one case or another. Mr Gräzin pointed out in his question that there are far more options for solutions than we offer in our draft, and I must admit that there were really interesting proposals that did not all come into the draft. The Committee on Legal Affairs has heard them in discussions so far and will certainly hear them in further work. In our opinion, this is not so much a matter of our willingness to compromise, but of what is reasonable from the point of view of Estonia and which will take us forward if we are to bring a number of provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure into line with the Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U80	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U81	Good waitress! Listening to the questions and answers of lawyers who have been recognised here, I inevitably had the impression that the state had put in place a criminal procedure such that the state had all the rights and that there were few on the other side. It's like a ditch. If this bill you have submitted were to become a law, would we be in another ditch so that the majority of the rights would be left to suspects or criminals and the state would not have rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U82	Good questioner! The 295 bill raises questions all over the world. The state prosecutor points out a number of provisions, also referred to by Mr Anvelt and Mr Nestor, who considered that the draft could be disproportionate to the defence and to the accused party. At the same time, there are a number of points with which we are creating additional opportunities and additional resources for the state and the prosecutor's office as well. In the course of further work, the provisions relating to the second degree and other crimes must certainly be thoroughly analysed, and that is what the second and third readings are for. But are we taking the law to another extreme? I don't think so. Maybe we can change the individual moments that the state prosecutor brought out. They have been highlighted by the protection as very necessary provisions, and the prosecutor's office clearly sees that these levers are being pulled together very hard. One of them is the withdrawal of the right of appeal. This is the case in several countries and several countries are different, so it is a subject of in-depth analysis. But there's no way we're gonna drive our cart into a ditch, still in the middle of the road.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U83	No further questions. Thank you, Mailis Reps! I would like to ask Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U84	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, As you were convinced during this class review and the round of questions and answers, here, despite the fact that this is a draft initiated by the Centre Party, there is no war standing up. That's one. So much from the Commission's debate that, as you know, this story was kicked off in this Chamber on 25 September when there was a debate on a matter of national importance. On October 16, the Centre Party handed over its draft. Why have we only reached this first reading today, although Priit Toobal, who knows the Rules of Procedure, would say that in seven weeks things must be on the counter and at least the first reading done? The point is that we have had cooperation with the initiator, and it has been his desire, above all, that the draft be dealt with now and now. We discussed the draft on 28 January. Since it was presented last October 16th, we had enough time to ask for opinions from a wide range of organisations. Those who use the paper have a bill with an explanatory statement. But if you look at the website of the Legal Affairs Committee, where there is an overview of the processing of draft 295, there are also opinions from the Government of the Republic, the Bar Association, the Supreme Court and the Prosecutor's Office. A little bit of history. When the criminal proceedings in their current form were laid down here in the Riigikogu, the chairman of the commission was Väino Linde and the time was about 2000. All the principles that are currently being debated were then conscious of the choices. For example, the principle of absolute legality was decided to remain in force. However, when it comes to the inquisitive investigation of the debate and the adversarial legal proceedings, they were also well-informed choices. During the debate on 25 September, Leon Glikman asked who were the people who proposed such criminal proceedings. At least two of these people belong to an expert group appointed by Malik. These are Eerik Kergandberg and Priit Pikamäe, who deal with criminal matters in everyday work at the Supreme Court. None of this has fallen into the code of procedure from the moon. Of course, the question of time limits for investigations was also on the table last time. Unanimously, or at the very least, the draft experts considered that there was no reason to set deadlines. It is also a very interesting development that has been made through the deadlines for arrest. When the bill came from the government to the Riigikogu, the term of detention was one year. But when implementing the law, essentially in a very short period, it reached six months. I'm just saying, nothing's random here. Now we are talking about the draft before us and the opinion on whether it is a good and perfect draft. I am not the top lawyer, as Villu Reiljan has always emphasised, and little of that, I am not a lawyer at all. But in my opinion, the people involved in the day-to-day criminal proceedings put the problems in line, just as the people's assembly has done, but maybe they didn't have time to separate the blades from the bulls and make sure there were no contradictions. Why do I have the guts to talk about it? The reason is very simple. Let's look at the Bar Association's opinion. Mr Jents pointed out one point concerning the time limits for pre-trial investigations. Like one man, both the barrister's office and the prosecutor's office are announced that the introduction of time limits in the criminal investigation will not be supported. Another nuance: one of the proposals of the initiators is that the inquisition pre-trial procedure should be changed, but in fact there are no concrete steps to implement it. The Bar Association also argues in its opinion that the proposed amendments are declarative and impose obligations on the prosecutor's office, but in fact they do not change the situation on this issue. There are, of course, a variety of substantive issues here. As regards the time limits for pre-trial proceedings, the principle of legality and pre-trial detention, these are legal policy issues which, as is often the case in law, do not necessarily have absolute truth. Mailis Reps has already said that the previous Minister of Justice set up a working group to deal with these issues. This group is different from the traditional groups of experts in that all the political groups in Parliament are represented there. There is Mr Maruste, Mr Reps, Mr Anvelt, and I too am a member of this working group. On 14 January, the working group convened and selected topics with more or less consensus. These topics include arrest, search, the principle of legality, speeding up criminal investigations, the issue of electronic evidence, verification and verification standards at all, and access to the criminal file in pre-trial proceedings. Since we, as the legislator, have been fresh in touch with the surveillance activities, we have not shown any consensus in this regard. We also had a discussion about what the future fate of Bill 295 should be. If you look at the Rules of Procedure, there is no good guidance to indicate in which case the draft may be excluded from the procedure and in which case it must remain in the proceedings. We asked Mailis Reps in the Commission as the initiator: 'What do you think this bill is good? ' Mailis, as he did today, stated that there is a certain eclecticity in the bill, but he has already done his job of raising a number of problems. In order to keep him in mind and to have the expert group on the table as a tool, the Commission decided to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped, that it be sent to the plenary session today and that the deadline for amendments be set at the usual ten days. We initially set 26 February at the date of first reading, but we were forced to postpone it at the request of the initiators. If we continue here now, which is the right deadline for amendments, we will get 26 March 2013. And 17.15 is the last time that amendments are expected in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Who brings the hand, please hand Raini Laide, who sends us to the right place. At the same time, we should not be too worried if someone fails to make an amendment by then. It is my understanding, as well as the whole of the Committee on Legal Affairs, that we should now work together with this group of experts to find real solutions, to carry out an in-depth analysis of specific issues, and finally to reach a common position on the form in which changes could still become a law during its membership. I'm done with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U85	Thank you very much, Mr Pomerants. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Mr Linde, do you have a third question? Oh, the line. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U86	This is not a question, but since a good waitress named my name, I would like to say that I am also quite pleased today that in my time I had the opportunity to deal with the current Code of Criminal Procedure in the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Riigikogu. Compared to the law that was in force before that, the current code is certainly more progressive, which does not mean that we have not gotten a little smarter now. So we could really get back to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U87	Thank you very much, Mr Linde. Thanks again, Marko Pomerants! I'm opening negotiations. First of all, I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Anvelt, to represent the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U88	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to say that there is a lot of positive in this bill. It deals with the problems we see in criminal proceedings day after day. For example, the same legality issue that places an excessive burden on the police and the prosecutor's office, precisely because of bureaucracy. There are certainly worth discussing, which has also been discussed several times in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the time limits for arrest, the time limits for criminal investigations and the search involved at all. For example, the same thing as why the latter is perhaps completely unwarrantedly distributed between the prosecutor's office and the court. However, a search, as a procedure that violates fundamental rights, should be a purely judicial decision. A new initiative would be nice if there were no certain buts. Here, ladies and gentlemen have said a great deal about proportionality. As politicians, I think we should take a slightly broader perspective than lawyers into account when talking about proportionality. Proportionality must also be ensured in the way we act as politicians in society, given the sense of justice in society. Now I'm getting to another reason why I came here on the remote. May our good opposition partner forgive me, but after many meetings and discussions in the political group of his party, and also a bit more broadly, we have come to the conclusion that we cannot support this draft. And why? For a very simple reason. All the problems that the bill waitress talked about for a long time are there. However, this bill came out at a time when there is a crisis in Estonian politics. There is a crisis in Estonian politics that affects a great many parties and, unfortunately, our law enforcement bodies. We can't get over it or around it. For example, we are taking the appeal limit proposed in this very draft to the prosecutor's office. We know that, so far, there is a very large criminal matter in court proceedings concerning the land exchange process. The introduction of such a restriction may seem very clear as an attempt to influence the decision in any way within the same complex process. I stress, too, that politics must and must also look very clear and transparent. I think that, apart from me, many others want clarity on this matter, but they want clarity on this matter to come in our three-step trial. We want the innocent to be freed from guilt honestly, without any proposed changes to the law, and the guilty to be punished and not to be spared by changes to the law. Take, for example, the provisions that talk about limited surveillance activities only in the case of first-degree crimes. For heaven's sake, as our Prime Minister says. How will investigators resolve crimes that make up the biggest problem of crimes?! Most crimes against property, fraud, crimes in the computer environment, part of drug offences, not to mention corruption crimes, most of them are secondary crimes. Like drug crime, these are hidden crimes where a briber or a briber does not walk into the police station to declare: I did this. The police will only come after them because of surveillance. Or the question of evidence when we're talking about cross-referencing evidence. I would like to remind you that this same problem has arisen in some cases that have been related to politicians just as the previous limitation of corruption crimes, where politicians were once again involved. So I think we're going down the wrong road a little bit. Our criminal proceedings definitely need constant improvement. We need to talk about proportionality between the rights of the accused and the fundamental rights of citizens. These rights must be protected, but we must also consider that we, as politicians, have a slightly different responsibility. This is a very unpleasant subject, but we are looking for ways not to improve our behaviour, but, on the contrary, to make the laws comfortable for politicians who are potentially under attack. Such a thing is unacceptable to the members of our group. Perhaps to illustrate: if the driver is constantly drunk, it is important not to look for opportunities to replace an alcometer or a police officer or for some sort of reform, but to deal with the problem of the driver's alcohol addiction. Thank you. I will also hand over our proposal to reject this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U89	Thank you very much. Please, as representative of the Group of the Igor Gräzin Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U90	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Andres! The Estonian state has had the honour of handling the land exchange for eight years thanks to all its offices, the kapo, the prosecutor's office. If it goes on like this, it'll run out of eight more years. What justice we are talking about when, as a result of this procedure, one party has disappeared from the Estonian political scene and one person's political career and life has been ruined!? And no one is responsible for that. Let me draw attention to another moment. You're right, we're politicians and we're supposed to be in charge, but sometimes I have a feeling there might be a court, a prosecutor's office, and a kapo. I would like to remind you, just in case, how it could have happened that in the land exchange case, the verdict in the first instance arrived at the verdict, and this was purely the initiative of the prosecutor's office and was born in cooperation with the Defence Police. I would also like to remind you that in the press two weeks before the decision was taken, the chief of the Defence Police announced that the judge was a fool, the evidence was valid absolutely and even the formal basis for rejecting the evidence is missing. So there was a situation where the head of the surveillance body, the police general, simply called the Republic Court, tried to threaten it and say what a decision was to be made. So this is our pre-trial procedure! This was discussed here and the pre-trial investigation of Mailis was also discussed in Estonia is not a legal procedure. The pre-trial investigation is a journalistic genre in the Republic of Estonia and the newspaper is the same judicial body as the court and everyone else. We have developed a situation in which the courts are not judicial bodies, but public opinion, which is deliberately, intentionally and systematically shaped by the Estonian press. As far as surveillance activities are concerned, eavesdroppings and such things are concerned, the problem is not so much that some kind of tape or computer hard drive is taken away. God with them! Basically, they could be court evidence if it wasn't for one thing: the tape of eavesdropping doesn't go to court, the tape of eavesdropping goes to the newspaper. And one of the most important objectives of eavesdropping is not to create evidence, but to create public opinion, especially if the process goes down in the second or third month. The fact that nothing could come out of the issue of land change was clear in the second or third month following the initiation of the case. I think everyone here agrees that land change as a criminal process is undoubtedly one of the simplest cases that has been in Estonia in recent decades. In order to avoid such a situation, there is little law. I believe that we must read this bill again seriously and recall one very simple thing: it is not about criminal law, it is about Article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. I maintain that the Republic of Estonia has not complied with Article 6 of this Convention. I think we should take a step in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U91	Thank you very much, Mr Gräzin. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. The Bureau has received a motion by the Social Democratic Party Group to reject the draft 295 at first reading, and we must vote through it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group 295 to be rejected at first reading. Please vote! 11 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 67 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 295 amendments. a 26 March at 5 p.m. The first reading of Bill 295 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U92	We will begin the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of a Special Committee against Corruption' submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Mr Väino Linde, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! It is true that the Special Committee against Corruption still operates in the Riigikogu to carry out its duties under the Anti-Corruption Act. This may cause some confusion, which is why it is needed with the bill number 380. The reason is actually very simple. After all, the Riigikogu did a good job last year and passed a new anti-corruption law, which will be in force on 1 April. a, and the current anti-corruption law will cease to apply from the same time. The current Special Anti-Corruption Committee of the Riigikogu has been formed on the basis of the current law, which means that we should take steps to avoid a further legal vacuum. This was also done by the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu by bringing this decision before you. Indeed, since the new anti-corruption law, which will be in force on 1 April, says that it is necessary to set up a special committee in the Riigikogu, we must establish this committee in accordance with the new law. This text is on the table before you, the draft decision of the Riigikogu on setting up a special committee against corruption. The draft decision shall also include the members and alternates of the Commission. What else can I say? The competence of the special committee created under the new law has been somewhat extended compared to the current one. He gets more, more generally, the rights of the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry. The Commission has the task of parliamentary supervision over the implementation of anti-corruption measures. In addition, the Commission has been given the right to discuss and evaluate on its own initiative possible cases of corruption by members of the Riigikogu and senior civil servants. With regard to these tasks, the Commission's right to summon persons and to request data and documents for inspection has been highlighted. All of this in the collection gives this special committee somewhat more rights than it currently has. However, with regard to the declarations that will be made in 2013, the Commission will certainly still apply the provisions of the old Anti-Corruption Act. The new verification procedure for declarations will only apply to declarations to be submitted in 2014. I will also tell you that this whole fine thing was discussed by the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu on 25 February 2013. We are proposing to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the first reading be concluded today, and the amendments could be received by 4 a.m. on 15 March. This was a consensual decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I will say in advance that, if you, ladies and gentlemen, agree with this approach and we will conclude the first reading together here today, then it is proposed that the draft be sent to second reading by 21 March 2013. Our desire in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is very heated because the special committee to be set up will have its power and right by 1 April 2013, as the new law provides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U94	Thank you very much, Mr Linde. Looks like there's no questions for you. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for submitting 380 amendments. 15 March 2010 at 4 p.m. First reading of Bill 380 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U95	Our last item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I would like to ask Mrs Yana Toomi, a colleague of a member of the Riigikogu, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U96	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am honoured to report to you, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, a bill 356 aimed at allowing children who have one of the parents who own a grey passport, i.e. a non-citizen, and another parent who is a third-country national, to enjoy citizenship under simplified naturalisation. I am not going to read the explanatory statement here, I believe you are all familiar with it, but I will add a few very important nuances, in which I had the impression in the committee that they were not very well understood. The current Citizenship Act provides an opportunity to apply for naturalisation for citizenship of a child under 15 years of age, both of whom are not citizens, i.e. the owners of a grey passport, and the children receive citizenship from the actual date of birth. But it's not birth citizenship, it's naturalisation citizenship that doesn't equal birth citizenship. If the child has a single parent and this single parent owns a grey passport, then the child will be able to become an Estonian citizen as an infant. We all know very well that being a citizen is one of the most important measures and mechanisms of integration in Estonia. There are currently about 15,000 children in Estonia whose parents have taken advantage of this possibility. But there are also children whose parent owns a grey passport and the other parent is a third-country national. It is appropriate to recall here that there were times in Estonia when people did not receive Estonian citizenship for any reason, they had linguistic or other difficulties, but the Russian Federation, for example, kindly shared Russian passports. However, some of the people who are currently around 100,000 did not take advantage of this opportunity, with which I believe they showed loyalty to the Estonian state. Now they have children, grandchildren, and some of them have a grey passport. In short, the law gives children whose parents both hold a grey passport and single parent children who hold a grey passport the opportunity to obtain Estonian citizenship by simplified procedure, but those children whose parents have one third-country national and the other owner of a grey passport do not have the same right under the Estonian Citizenship Act. In our opinion, this means that we treat children unequally. The requirements for equality of application of law are met when all stateless persons, here children, are treated equally. The current Citizenship Act has led to unequal treatment of children of stateless persons. Under the current law, a child born in Estonia has the right to Estonian citizenship if both parents are stateless, but this is not the right for a child who has only one parent being a stateless person. We discussed this at length in the Commission, and it came up there that the adoption of such a draft would lead to a double citizenship problem. In fact, that is not the case. Firstly, as we know from the honourable Foreign Minister's reply to one question, we already have about 100,000 double citizens in Estonia, double citizens in all kinds of countries. Secondly, the Estonian Citizenship Act provides very clearly that a child who has double citizenship must choose when he or she turns 16, which he or she will retain, either Estonian or Russian citizenship. In this case, it is very clear that if a child has double citizenship up to the age of 16, he or she will later have to choose. That's one thing. That's another thing. We had a major debate on Russian citizens, because, frankly, there are currently some 3,000 children, according to the Citizenship and Migration Department, of course the lion's share of Russian citizens. According to information provided by the Russian embassy, I have no reason not to believe it, I sent them a request and received an answer to the question, and there are 300 children born in the middle of the year, such couples, Russian citizenship. There are probably other countries there, but the number of Russian citizens is clearly the highest. And the situation is that Russia considers all children born to its citizens to be its citizens from the moment of birth, regardless of whether or not the passport has been applied for. In this case, if the parents, in particular, I am referring to the parent with a grey passport who has not wanted and has not taken the citizenship of a third country, there is a wish to apply for Estonian citizenship for the child, they would be able to do so immediately and later then the child would be able to give up Russian citizenship because he or she has Estonian citizenship. I hope I didn't talk too complicated. If you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. In our opinion, the draft does not entail additional expenditure on the state budget, and most importantly, we would treat all children equally and not give our newborn citizens to other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U97	Thank you very much, Mr Toom. Please ask a question, Mr Mart Nutt.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U98	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear waitress, If the child is born in a family where one of the parents is a citizen of a country, whatever the country it is, the child is not stateless. It's a fact-finding detail. Now the question. If you are talking about equal treatment, what are the differences between children whose parents are both nationals of another country? Why don't you offer to apply this principle to these children? In any case, these children are in the same situation that they are not without nationality, unlike those children who are really born in a family where both parents are of undetermined nationality.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U99	Thank you! The question consisted of two parts. I'll start at the end. I am talking about unequal treatment for children who have one or two parents who own a grey passport. The child has citizenship, it is true here I am now moving to the first part of the question. I promise me one five. There have been major debates on this subject in Estonia, with the most significant being in 1998 in the Riigikogu, when the foreign minister Toomas Hendrik Ilves was present here. He stressed that guaranteeing citizenship for children of stateless parents since their birth is a principle of international law recognised and respected by other European countries. In his opinion, it is impossible to deny the humanistic content of this principle. In addition, Mr Ilves noted that internationally, arguments that should prove that Estonia cannot apply this principle for one reason or another have never been accepted. I deeply doubt that Mr Ilves spoke here in 1998 about Russian, Belarusian or Chinese citizenship. He must have talked about the citizenship of the Estonian state, as we are in Estonia and this speech was sounded here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. So in this case, it is not that we are trying to combat citizenshiplessness with this bill. It is clear that these children will be granted citizenship, but it would be in the interests of the Estonian state that the children of our non-citizens receive Estonian citizenship, because that is what binds the person to the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U100	Please, Mr Mart Nutt, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U101	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I did not actually get an answer, because Mr Ilves, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, really spoke about stateless children. This bill concerns children who will be granted citizenship by birth, and according to the bill, they will also be granted second citizenship by birth. But my question concerned why you do not consider it possible or necessary to extend the same principle to those children whose parents have the nationality of another country. If double citizenship is your request, why can't you say it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U102	Thank you! Surely double citizenship is not our request. We're talking about children whose parent owns a grey passport. If I am a single mother with a grey passport, then I will have Estonian citizenship for my child in a simplified manner. If I happen to marry a third-country national or I don't hide the fact that my child has a third-country national's father, I won't get that chance anymore. Which means that a child who has two parents with a grey passport will be granted citizenship, but a child who only has one parent with a grey passport will not be granted citizenship. This unequal treatment is, in this case, between children who have one or both parents with a grey passport. As regards the citizens of other countries, i.e. when both parents are third-country nationals, we are not talking about this at all. We certainly have not had such a plan within the framework of this draft, so that we would also like to allow them the citizenship of the Estonian country at birth. That's a whole other thing. We are talking about giving up 300 newborn children each year, our non-citizen children, to other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U103	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U104	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I think Mr Nutt said a very interesting idea. Are there any technical barriers that it cannot formalise as an amendment which the Commission could discuss between two readings and which could then be adopted successfully if adopted by a majority of the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U105	Thank you. I deeply doubt that Mr Nutt represented the will of the Commission's majority in this case. As far as technical barriers are concerned, they certainly do not exist. But I would not like to see such a provision in this draft, because we really did not have a plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U106	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I do not quite agree with you on the issue of inequality. I do agree, however, that we have a problem with a very large number of people living here who consider Estonia their country of origin, born here, but often they are either stateless at all or citizens of another country. On the side of the coalition and on the side of the Commission's majority, there was quite a lot of intimidation with the question of double citizenship. Would you explain how you think this bill could increase double citizenship?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U108	Thank you for your question. Purely technically, I don't see that possibility. But I understand that fear. First of all, the double citizenship issue has been unregulated for years. I understand that for some, it may be really scary that we have 100,000 double citizens, for whom we don't know what to do. On the one hand, the Constitution allows double citizenship, i.e. forbidding the citizenship of the citizen at birth, which means that the citizen at birth may have several passports I do not know and no one can defeat him. On the other hand, we all know that the Citizenship Act prohibits double citizenship, but the Constitution is above the Citizenship Act. It's an unregulated thing. I do not believe that with this bill, giving young children the opportunity to obtain Estonian citizenship in a simplified way, we are somehow adding confusion. That's not possible. Secondly, no matter what the parents think, the situation is that if one parent has Russian citizenship, for example, then from the first day of his life, the Russian child considers him to be a Russian citizen, regardless of whether his parents have asked him for a passport or not. According to the embassy, there have been cases where a passport is collected when the child is 11 years old and needs to go to a warm country. Before that, the child has lived successfully in Estonia with an ID-card, where the citizenship box contains three crosses, but if you need to go on a trip, you will come and ask for a passport. But if the Estonian state agreed to the parents that this child would receive Estonian citizenship, then later the child would have its own choice. We live here according to the laws of the Republic of Estonia. Our Citizenship Act unequivocally prohibits double citizenship for unborn citizens and these children are not born citizens. If they have asked for a Russian passport from the Russian embassy and will not give it up afterwards, they have knowingly violated the Estonian Citizenship Act, which would result in the loss of Estonian citizenship. So this means that if they live by Estonian law, there will be no double citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U109	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Toom. I invite my colleague Mart Nut, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to give a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U110	Madam Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! One fact clarification before I talk about the Commission's work. Indeed, there is a provision in the Citizenship Act according to which a child born with several citizenships must make a choice, but this age is not 16 years old, which must be done within three years of the age of 18. However, this was not the subject of the Commission's debate, which is why we will not dwell on it. The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft law at its regular meeting on 25 February. In addition to the members of the committee, the Head of the Migration and Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, Ruth Annus, and the rapporteur for the draft, the representative of the Central Party Group, Yana Toom, were invited to the debate. The Commission discussed this issue from quite a number of angles, and I will not report the whole debate here, because a lot of questions were also related to technical possibilities. This draft was presented mainly by the initiator's representative, Yana Toom, and Ruth Annus, as reflected in the position of the Government of the Republic, introduced her circumstances. I will read Ruth's Dose Response fairly accurately because it should convey the government's position. Ruth Annus noted that the current Citizenship Act really provides that children whose parents are both of undefined citizenship and have resided legally in Estonia for at least five years will receive Estonian citizenship on the basis of a simplified application by both parents. The purpose of this provision is to prevent the so-called "recurrence" of persons of undefined citizenship, or to give children the opportunity to receive Estonian citizenship even if the parents, for whatever reason, do not have Estonian citizenship, but wish to link their child's future to Estonia. In a completely different situation, children whose parents are of undefined nationality and who are third-country nationals, because these children acquire citizenship according to their parents, by the parent who has citizenship. This means that these children will not remain persons of undefined nationality, but will be foreign citizens, and if one of the parents wishes to apply for Estonian citizenship, they will have the opportunity to apply for Estonian citizenship for their child as well. One question raised disagreements between the initiators of the draft and the representative of the government, Ruth Dosage. I don't know who's right here. Ruth Annus claimed that if parents do not wish to give up the citizenship of their country of nationality, even if this country is the Russian Federation, but they wish to apply for Estonian citizenship for their children and exempt them from the citizenship of the Russian Federation, the Russian Federation will not exempt them. Mr Ossinovski quoted the citizenship law of the Russian Federation there with no such restriction or provision. Ruth Annus stressed, however, that in practice the Russian Federation did so. I cannot comment on whether this is the case or not, but in any case this question has been raised. The position of the Government of the Republic, which bears the signature of the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, reads as follows: 'The Government of the Republic considers that the current Citizenship Act has created all the necessary preconditions for preventing the citizenship of children. Chapter 3 of the Citizenship Act sets out, as a minor, the conditions for obtaining Estonian citizenship and the right of parents to apply for Estonian citizenship for a child under 15 years of age. Paragraph 13 (4) (1) of the Citizenship Act provides that parents who are not nationals of any state and who have been legally resident in Estonia for at least five years at the time of filing the application, and parents who are not of undetermined nationality who are raising the child alone, are entitled to apply for Estonian citizenship. ' The Committee on Constitutional Affairs based its decision on the fact that there is no conflict with existing international legislation. Whether or not we accept the multiple citizenship that arises when this draft becomes a law is a matter of political decision. The Riigikogu is undoubtedly competent to decide this; the question is whether the Riigikogu has a political desire to make such a decision or not. On the basis of the framework currently in force in the Citizenship Act, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took the following decisions: Firstly, to send the draft to the plenary session for first reading by 12 March 2013 this decision was taken by consensus. The consensus also made a second decision: to appoint Mart Nutt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. The last decision was not taken by consensus; it was proposed to reject the draft law at first reading. There were 5 Commission members in favour, 5 against and 1 abstention. The proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is therefore to reject this draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U111	Thank you very much, Mr Mart Nutt. Let's continue with the questions. Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U112	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, You are perhaps the most experienced person in this area within our Riigikogu. I think it's probably the seventh draft in that direction that has been discussed in my time. You said that Estonian practice is not in conflict with international acts. But I read out of the Convention on the Rights of the Child a provision which states that the basic right of the child is to be a person of nationality from the moment of birth. In this sense, these five years or the practice of naturalisation are contrary to the basic right of the child. Van der Stoel, Hammarberg and many others have also spoken about this. Did you even discuss these problems in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U113	Thank you. Yes, when I looked at the drafts submitted by the Centre Party Group to amend the Citizenship Act, there have been five of them since 2007, in the last two formations. I haven't looked at any statistics on the past. The subject of the Convention on the Rights of the Child was indeed touched upon in the Commission. This has actually been discussed both in Estonia and at a number of international events, where I have participated quite a lot. This provision is often misquoted. It is indeed the only international obligation of the country that a child must not be left without nationality. The process of obtaining citizenship is a national issue. There are basically two options. One possibility is that a stateless child is considered to be a citizen on the principle of ius soli, or territorial law. This is mostly applied to those countries where citizenship is acquired by birth in that country, where the citizenship of the parents is irrelevant. It's an American principle. Other countries which rely on the principle of ius sanguinis, i.e. the citizenship of parents, usually apply this second side, that the parents of stateless children are given the opportunity to apply for citizenship and that the state does not impose conditions for such citizenship. I mean, both principles can be applied under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. There are countries that use a mixed system, i.e. the principle of ius sanguinis is generally valid, but a stateless child at birth is granted citizenship. So the convention gives both possibilities. Estonia is currently applying the pure ius sanguinis principle, which means that a stateless child born in Estonia will be granted citizenship without conditions at the request of the parents and will in principle take place for a minimum period of time. In this sense, too, there has never been an issue of interpretation in international organisations. I can, for example, refer directly to the ECRI, the Committee against Racism and Intolerance, where I have worked for 14 years. In the case of Estonian reports, this issue has been raised and it has always been concluded that Estonia does not violate the Convention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U114	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U115	Thank you. Dear waitress, In your report, you dropped such a sentence that this bill will inevitably increase the number of double citizens. Can you open this statement, given that, just as the Estonian Citizenship Act also provides for the Russian Federation's citizenship law to give up the previous citizenship in the naturalisation process? In other words, if a native Russian citizen should apply for Estonian citizenship, there is a provision in our law that he or she must renounce his or her previous citizenship, and this draft does not intend to change that provision. How, then, will the number of double citizens increase as a result of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U116	Thank you. I cannot say anything about the behaviour of the Russian Federation; this must probably be asked of the embassy of the Russian Federation. However, I can rely on the figures given by the Ministry of the Interior at this very meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. When we are talking about possible double citizenship, we should not really be limited to the citizens of Russia, but we should be talking about all those whose parent is a citizen of another country and the other is a stateless person. But, of course, the citizens of the Russian Federation here make up the largest proportion of the total number of citizens of the Russian Federation of around 100,000. Among its 100,000 are people of different age groups, so we can certainly talk about both older people and children in this regard. Nor does this undoubtedly mean that children in marriage are necessarily born as joint descendants of a citizen of the Russian Federation and of a person in a grey passport. Therefore, the statistics that can be exactly what this figure is difficult to do. It follows from the reply of the Ministry of the Interior to the figures given by the Chancellor of Justice that the children whose parent is a citizen of another state, or not an Estonian citizen, but not a citizen of an Estonian state, and the other is an undetermined person, are among children under the age of 15, 3143 and among children aged 15 to 17, 616. Basically, this is the number of people who could have double citizenship as a result of this decision. I can't comment exactly. If you want more information, you should ask the Home Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U117	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U118	Thank you, Madam President. Mart, I have a very specific question. When you finished speaking, you said that the proposal to not finish the first reading was put to the vote. The result of the vote was in favour, 5 against and 1 abstention. Unless you were wrong with the figures, such a vote means that the proposal was rejected, and that means an alternative, i.e. that the first reading will be closed, because all decisions will be taken in the Riigikogu by a majority vote. Were you wrong about the numbers or what's the matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U119	Thank you. I wasn't wrong with the numbers. Indeed, decisions are taken by majority vote. I mean, a proposal to stop reading first or not to stop reading first can really always raise the question of which proposal will be voted first. In the present case, the decision to terminate the first reading was not adopted by the Commission. So, as a result, the proposal is to be rejected because there was no majority on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U120	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U121	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I understand from your lines and answers to the questions that you perceive double citizenship as a factor that threatens the security of the country. At the same time, we all perceive that a large number of Russian citizens, for example, also pose a certain security risk. In the committee, you spoke of South Ossetia, for example. Which, in your opinion, is more of a security risk, either 100,000 Russian citizens or 100,000 double citizens, who still have close ties with Estonia and the Estonian legal space?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U122	Thank you. This question was very clear about my personal opinion. Unfortunately, as a Commission rapporteur, I can pass on the Commission's discussion. If there is a desire to ask for my personal opinion, there are many ways to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U123	Mr Stalnukhin, do you have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U124	Madame Chairwoman, this question is for you. You also heard that the Commission put to the vote a proposal not to finish the first reading and to reject the draft. It was voted, 5 were in favour, and 5 were not against, i.e. there was no majority vote. This means that this decision has not been adopted by the Commission. If such a situation arises and there is no second vote, then it means that logically, another proposal has been adopted: to close the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U125	Dear colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin, this is the Commission's decision, not my decision. We're not gonna argue here. The committee has made such a decision and it is not discussed by the Head of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U126	Thank you. I will read the specific wording in the minutes, and I think that if there is a need for further procedural discussion on this issue, we will do so. Mr Rait Maruste, the chairman of the committee, proposed that the proposal to support the draft be put to the vote. As the draft was in favour of 5, 5 against and 1 abstention, the Commission rejected the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U127	Ladies and gentlemen, there is always an opportunity to make a decision in the big Chamber. So let's continue with the questions now. Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U128	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Unfortunately, we have not discussed this in the Commission, but I will take the risk and ask. I would like to object to the argument that I have just said from this remote control: if a child receives Estonian citizenship and then goes to the Russian embassy at some point, gets a Russian passport and then does not give it up later, he will break the Estonian Citizenship Act and lose Estonian citizenship. Please, do you have any objection to this? In my opinion, this would prevent double citizenship in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U129	Thank you. I am in a bit of an awkward situation, because there is always a right to blame it on me when I, as a Commission waitress, express my personal opinion. That's why I won't do it. But I stress that if a person who has received the citizenship of one country at birth, in this case Estonian citizenship, and then takes the citizenship of another country after that, he has acquired several citizenships, unless the law of the country provides for a procedure to ensure one-off citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U130	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U131	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I'm coming back to international level. You said that if Estonia has presented its position in international organisations, it has justified the procedure that is in Estonia, then practically everyone has agreed that there has been no violation. On the other hand, we know that, for example, the representatives of the relevant structures in Europe, I have already mentioned van der Stoel, Hammarberg and may also mention others, they are proposing to the Estonian state to organise the granting of children's citizenship better in order to comply with all international conventions. Why do you think it's done?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U132	Thank you. There is no doubt that international organisations and officials and experts working with them have the right to make recommendations. They can be divided into two-way recommendations in this respect. As we know, the Council of Europe is not an organisation that can dictate to the Member States, but if it is a violation of an international law, these recommendations also state it. However, recommendations may not necessarily have been made because some kind of international legislation is being violated, but an international organisation or its representative simply thinks that a different solution is better, and then it is usually said. This is also the case with Estonia. For example, when I recall meetings with Max van der Stoel, first of all, this concerns the time after 1998 when the principle was established in Estonia that children born without a stateless person will be granted Estonian citizenship on the basis of their parents' request, Max van der Stoel stressed that he personally would consider a better solution if the child were given this so-called birth fact, but he states that Estonia complies with international law with its regulations, or the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U133	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Stalnukhin, I repeat what the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said: he put to the vote a proposal to support the draft. As there were 5 Commission members in favour, 5 against and 1 abstention, the Commission rejected the draft. Paragraph 38 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu states: 'The Riigikogu commission takes decisions by a majority vote. " That's why the decision was right. Please, Mr Stalnukhin, what is your next comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U134	Madam Chairman, I absolutely agree with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U136	I believe that's the way it was, as is the protocol you read there. I am now wondering why the Commission's waitress is violating the procedure. He does so by informing us in the wrong terms of the question that was put to the vote in committee. Why is he doing this, and why are you defending him, Madam Chairman?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U137	I'm sorry, really, if I was wrong to defend you now, but I told you what I heard. Please, my colleague Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U138	Thank you. I think there's been some misconception. This is precisely two questions. One is how the proposal was put to the vote in committee. I read this as a statement by Rait Marust, who said that he would put the proposal to support the draft to the vote. As there were 5 Commission members in favour of the draft, 5 against and 1 abstention, the Commission rejected the draft. Consequently, the committee proposes to the Riigikogu plenary to reject the draft. Is this question unambiguously understood now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U139	Thank you very much, Mr Mart Nutt. No further questions. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? Please, as representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Mr Ossinovski, Mr Jevgeni.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A few brief remarks on this draft and today's debate. Indeed, there are a number of technical shortcomings in this draft. For example, if the authors of the draft law wish to amend Article 14 (4) of the Citizenship Act, paragraphs 5 and 6 should also be amended. Also, to which reference was made, since countries in general do not exempt persons from nationality until a decision on the granting of new citizenship has been taken in another country, the draft should provide for a procedure for the smooth transition from one nationality to another without, in the meantime, being of citizenshipless status. These technical shortcomings can certainly be used as an excuse for abandoning the further procedure of the draft, but the real problem is much more fundamental. Colleagues from the Reform Party and the IRL seem to think that the situation where nearly 100000 citizens of other countries live in Estonia and the same number of stateless persons are normal. Our current regime, where a child born of two stateless parents in Estonia receives citizenship under a simplified procedure, is the absolute minimum that we have established in order to comply with international agreements to prevent the citizenship of children. Definitely citizenship is also the most undesirable situation. At the same time, I believe that it is in Estonia's interest that all the permanent residents born here who regard Estonia as their only country of origin have a permanent link with the Estonian state, based on Estonian citizenship. This would significantly promote the integration of these persons into Estonian society and participation in political and social life. It is not in Estonia's interest if, due to the rigidity of our citizenship policy, a large number of children born here automatically become citizens of another country. Now a little bit of statistics. At the beginning of 2012, Estonia had children under the age of 15 who had the nationality of another country, 7381. By comparison, there were 1520 children of undefined nationality. These figures may not seem to be large, but if we put them in a broader context, that is not the case. In 2011, 15,000 children were born in Estonia. Children under the age of 15, one parent of whom is a non-citizen and the other a citizen of another country, usually a Russian citizen, as my colleague Mart Nutt has already pointed out, were at that time 3143. It is known that 2234 of these children are nationals of another country and 312 are of undetermined nationality. For the remaining 600, the Ministry of the Interior did not provide information, it is not likely to be known what their nationality status is. What do these figures indicate? Firstly, we cannot completely rule out the reproduction of citizenship by the current regulation either, since over 300 children, one parent of whom is a citizen of a grey passport and another of another country, are still without nationality. Secondly, more than 2000 children born and growing here will automatically become citizens of another country and their subsequent movement into Estonian citizenship will be more difficult and unlikely as such. This draft offers a partial solution to the situation where we are restoring citizens of another country. In my opinion, it is reasonable and necessary to seek such a solution. I guess the MPs of the IRL and Reform Party believe that an increase in the number of Russian citizens over the last 20 years from zero to 100000 is desirable. By the way, the 2011 census showed that 105000 people of other nationality live permanently in Estonia. In 2000, there were 95,000, so the increase is nearly 10,000. I would like to point out that during the same period the number of Estonian citizens increased by just 6 000 people. The Reform Party and the IRL have dogmaticly denied the need to make our citizenship policy fit the needs of society. I would like to congratulate you that as a result, the number of citizens of other countries is increasing faster than the number of Estonian citizens. This is a real achievement in itself. Given that this has not been achieved by increasing immigration but by pushing its own people into another citizenship, it is phenomenal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U141	Thank you, Mr Ossinovski. Please, as representative of the Group of the Centre Party, Mr Toom.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U142	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not really have much to add to what already sounded here, except that, first of all, as my colleague Eldar Efendiev was currently raking, one in four children will be born in Estonia as a citizen of another country, which is very strange. Secondly, I want to correct one mistake that the Commission representative accidentally made, as if it were born with citizens who are entitled to double citizenship in this case. It's not like that. We are talking about giving citizenship by naturalisation under a simplified procedure, which means that it is not equal to the nationality of the born and does not give the right to double citizenship in the sense of the Constitution. We simply want children born in Estonia to have the citizenship of that country, so that they are connected with the Estonian state and integrate their parents into Estonian society. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-12_U143	Thank you very much, Mr Toom. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Since the lead committee has proposed to reject the draft 356, we must vote through it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject the draft law amending the Citizenship Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, at first reading. Please vote! 42 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 32 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Bill 356 has fallen out of the proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, our agenda has been exhausted. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 12.38 p.m.
