ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the third working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, do you have any drafts or inquiries to make? Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U2	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will report an inquiry to Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher about the Homeowners' Debt Protection Act. 14 January An article was published in the Estonian Päevaleht, which reported that over the last few years, an estimated 4000 people have been left homeless due to bank loans. The article pointed out that about a fifth of Estonians who took a mortgage had problems paying out loans. Last year alone, banks operating in Estonia put together about 850 homes for forced sales. Unfortunately, it is social problems that cause crime to a large extent. There is a reason to remind the Minister of the Interior of his own article entitled 'We Need the Law on Homeowners' Debt Protection', written in December 2009 and published on the Internet. The article criticised the Centre Party and the Social Democratic Party for their programme. It was claimed that people in need who took out a home loan would be offered a personal debt protection law as a solution. In April 2011, the Law on debt restructuring and debt protection entered into force. It must be said that for some reason it does not fulfil its purpose. Consequently, several members of the Riigikogu ask five questions to the Minister. One example is this: why has one of your election promises not really helped people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U3	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the four political groups of the Riigikogu (Reform Party, Centre Party, Isamaa and Res Publica Union and Social Democratic Party) and four members of the Riigikogu (Rainer Vakra, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laane and Deniss Borodich) I will hand over the draft Riigikogu's decision to establish the Riigikogu investigation committee to investigate illegal transactions involving the VEB Fund. According to the draft, the Commission's task is to clarify the circumstances relating to the establishment, organisation, management of the State VEB Fund and transactions carried out in 1993-2012, the letter sent by Eesti Pank to the Russian Foreign Economic Bank and the related circumstances related to possible subsequent transactions, as well as the possible damage caused to the state and private sector companies by the transactions carried out by the VEB Fund, as identified by Eesti Pank's audit in 1995. The Commission must provide the Riigikogu and the public with the conclusions on the operation of the VEB Foundation in 1993-2012 and the related possible law offences. According to the draft, the Commission will submit the final report on the result of the work to the Riigikogu and the public by 1 October 2013 at the latest, after which its mandate will expire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I have also accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Riigikogu's board. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Now the messages. Wednesday, s. On 30 January 2004, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, and Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questions of the members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 85 members of the Riigikogu have been registered, 16 are missing. Let's clarify today's agenda. First, at the debate on today's item No 3, the draft law amending the law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group at first reading, the initiator of the draft will make a report by Eiki Nestor, a member of the Riigikogu. Secondly, at the debate on today's agenda item 4, the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act and the party law, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, is presented at first reading by Sven Mikser, Member of the Riigikogu. Thirdly, at the debate on today's item No 5, the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act, initiated by the members of the Riigikogu Tõnis Lukas, Andres Herkel and Juku-Kalle Raid, is presented at the first reading by Andres Herkel, Member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U6	We are going to address today's agenda items. The first item is the second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. I would like to present a speech chair to Kajar Lember, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U7	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today, we can decide on a draft decision by the Reform Party Group, the content of which is to change the composition of the special committee on state budget control. It is proposed that Mr Andre Sepp be appointed a member of the Commission in place of Mr Arto Asa. The Commission discussed this draft after its first reading at its meeting on 21 January. By that time, some minor linguistic changes had been made, but everyone agreed with the draft decision, and there were no differences of opinion. The Constitutional Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be referred to second reading on 29 January, which is today, and that the draft 337 be adopted as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U8	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments to the draft were received. As the proposal of the commission is to adopt draft 337 as a decision, we will prepare the voting procedure. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party' draft 337. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U9	Today's second item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, "Announcement of a Member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, a renowned expert in the field of Estonian Public Broadcasting." I ask for a presentation by the Chair of the Committee on Culture, Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U10	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu initiated at its meeting on 22 January the draft decision which provides for the appointment of Krista Aru to the Estonian National Broadcasting Council as a recognised expert in the field of national broadcasting. The Commission received applications from five candidates. Krista Aru, who was voted for by 7 members of the Commission, was elected by secret ballot. On 22 January, the Committee on Culture also made such decisions to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 29 January, to propose that the draft be put to the final vote and adopted as a decision. These were consensual decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U11	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments could be tabled to the draft decision. We are going to the final vote because the proposal of the commission was to adopt the draft as a decision. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, a recognized expert in the field of Estonian Public Broadcasting, 361. Please take a stand and vote. 69 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U12	Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask for a presentation of a speech chair by a member of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Social Democratic Party Group proposes that you amend two sections of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. I do not think that we should have long discussions on how open or closed the Riigikogu is within the framework of this bill. Those who are in the Riigikogu may have one opinion and those who are outside Parliament and are watching us from a distance may have a significantly different opinion. With this bill, we are trying to improve the situation in such a way that conflicting emotions are less and the public can better understand what is happening in the Riigikogu, even more so that they can participate in the work that is being done in the Riigikogu. Because, unfortunately, the current Home and Working Procedures Act provides an opportunity to include, but it also provides an opportunity not to do so. The situation that we are trying to change is, in short, as follows. Our government has good practice of inclusion, which has been in force for ten years for all legislative acts. In some areas, such as working life, Estonia has taken on international commitments almost 20 years ago. There is one point in these responsibilities: that the state authority should discuss important issues in society with interested parties who are interested in the matter and who want to, can and can speak with them. Good practice of inclusion means, by the way, that if the Government of the Republic submits a draft to you, there will be a long table at the end of this draft of the organisations with which the Government coordinated this draft. It contains all their comments on this draft, including whether or not those comments were taken into account by the initiator, the Government of the Republic. The ambassador who is interested in the bill can review this table. The actual life in the Riigikogu has shown that good practice of inclusion can easily be sneaked away from beautiful. This is so in this simple way that although the draft may actually have been prepared by the government and the lawyers who prepared it from one ministry or another, the draft can also be initiated in the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act does not provide for any involvement in this way. In other words, maliciously acting can also circumvent the good practice of inclusion by the government, in the simple way that the draft will be presented instead by a Riigikogu commission or political group, without anyone ever discussing it with civil society organisations. This also applies to all those drafts initiated by anyone in the Riigikogu, even the opposition. The question is, in general, whether these units in the Riigikogu, the committees of the Riigikogu, are open or closed to civil society organisations during the procedure of the drafts. Paragraph 36 of the current Home and Working Rules Act states that a member of the Government of the Republic has the right to participate in a committee meeting with a say and that representatives of public authorities and other persons may attend the meeting at the invitation of the chairman of the committee. The practice is very different here. I'll start with a positive example. Last year, the Riigikogu discussed a very important and sensitive draft, the name of which was the draft law on public service. This could probably have caused much more anxiety and problems in society. However, the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu was well involved here. In other words, all those who had tabled amendments were MEPs or other stakeholders (in the case of this draft they were mainly self-governing associations and trade unions), were involved in the work of the Commission by participating in the Commission meeting and debating amendments. Indeed, all the amendments were discussed in the Commission. A closed discussion of the draft law would have led to many more problems, especially for the author of the draft law. But there are also examples to the contrary. One committee has submitted a draft, the actual author of which is the Government of the Republic. The Commission had to argue whether or not interested parties would be invited. The chairman of the committee was kind and invited. The author of the amendments, which I was then, was also invited. The amendments were discussed and then the committee chairman announced that guests could now leave, as the Commission would vote. I didn't start putting pressure on my constitutional rights because of my gross offense. In my opinion, this was not only ugly behaviour towards a vigilante, but especially against civil society organisations. There have also been committee presidents in the Riigikogu who have said that no interest groups are basically allowed to attend the committee meeting. Now a couple of marginal notes. First of all, all these drafts, which carry a certain stamp, i.e. have a degree of secrecy, are dealt with in exactly the same way in the Riigikogu. These are sealed documents. Their discussion shall take place on the basis of the laws in force. There will be a right for the chairman of the committee to invite someone, but those invited must be allowed to discuss this document. However, in the case of discussions on ordinary drafts which do not bear such a stamp, our proposal is that large, recognised civil society organisations, who are also frequent partners of committees, should have the right to attend a committee meeting without being called separately by the chairman of the committee. This would essentially mean that they, like the MPs, will receive the Commission's agenda for next week every Friday, together with drafts, amendments and other documents for discussion, and will essentially decide whether or not they want to come to the Commission's meeting. If they think it's right to say something, they'll come and say it, and that's their right. Members of the Commission will vote as they do now. There is no need to fear that it will be necessary to rent the Solaris Centre or the Song Square for the meeting of the committee, because the partners of the Riigikogu committees actually fit very well in the premises currently used by the Riigikogu committees. In fact, each Commission has developed regular cooperation partners. In my opinion, it should not be very difficult to say yes or no here. However, the way in which these non-profit organisations receive such an opportunity must also be regulated at the level of the law. The option we have proposed is that they request this opportunity from the Riigikogu Board, the Riigikogu Commission essentially tells the board that they are its cooperation partners. With regard to some other connections, the Commission can say that no, it has not heard from them and has so far not cooperated with them, but they may never become a partner. This would be an opportunity for those who are currently unable to say their word during the procedure for the drafts so that they can come to the Commission and express their opinion. Ultimately, the question is not only whether and how much the Riigikogu wants to listen to the views of civil society organisations, but also, in my opinion, that this way, much better laws will come from this hall than today. The second amendment concerns § 39. There are essentially two changes. This section is about the minutes and recording of the Commission's sitting. It is a regrettable situation at the moment that, when a good colleague, Mr Maruse, comes along after me and says that the Commission supported the completion of the first reading, and when you ask who voted, Mr Maruse only responds that there were so many parliamentarians in favour of the completion of the first reading of the draft, against so many parliamentarians and with so many abstentions. You will remember that there have been cases when there have been attempts to find out who voted, but it has turned out not to be counted from the record. Why? Has anyone figured out what's in this secret? As an alternate, I voted in favour of concluding the draft at first reading, and Mart Nutt also voted in favour of completing the first reading, although we may have a different understanding of the draft. But to whom should it be a secret? Is this supposed to be a secret to Rainer Vakra or who? Why are we hiding it? The first amendment is that the results of the vote are also fixed by name in the committees, so that it is clear who was in favour, who was against, who abstained or who did not vote. The second request is even simpler: the debate that was in the Commission is somehow reflected in the protocol. There is, of course, an opportunity to record the work of the Riigikogu through a verbatim report. We deliberately left the term 'Protocol' here. In other words, the Commission will decide among itself what is to be recorded. At the moment, by the way, the minutes of the committee will only be recorded when the ambassador asks for something to be recorded. The Board of the Riigikogu also showed some activity and, for example, this draft was also discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Commission Chairman Sven Sester asked whether one of the authors of the draft idea, Eiki Nestor and MP Sõerd, would be in favour if their opinions, expressed in sufficiently lively form in the committee, had been recorded. I have no objection to that, and Mrs Sõerdi did not mind either. I think I know politicians. I've seen them for a couple of decades, and I realize that if the cameras tingle and the spotlights burn, their story might change a little. But I do not think that this should be an obstacle in order to properly record and verbatim the work of the Riigikogu committee. After that, these committee meetings will not become an election debate. This was not the case even when, years ago, protocols were made in the form of a verbatim report on the basis of the then Rules of Procedure. By the way, the public read them with great interest. For example, the Committee on Culture carried out the minutes very briskly between 1999 and 2003, the sessions were verbatimized and the cultural public took a keen interest in them. You will probably have the idea that it might be possible to perform even more openly and using the possibilities of modern technology, for example, to transfer sittings of Riigikogu committees, which are not covered by a seal of secrecy, also on the Internet. I'm for it. But if you open the Home and Working Procedures Act, you will understand that it is not possible to write in such an article, simply because it is not necessary. We currently have one committee that has decided that their sessions are public and that they are all accessible online. Yesterday, I learned that they had a total of 251 monitors last year, which is a perfectly normal number for such a committee. At the decision of the Special Committee on National Budget Control, such disclosure is already taking place and I do not believe that a separate section is necessary for this. If anyone in the course of their further work thinks that it might still exist, then this place must be found. Thank you for the Commission's constructive debate. There were also questions that I regret that they were not recorded. It would be very nice if we could proceed with this bill in such a way that the most industrious cooperation body in the Riigikogu, or committee, can show that he is actually doing a job, not only that they came in at 10:00, they were there, and these, the item on the agenda was like this, and this, 6 were in favour and 5 were against, and they were disbanded. If our work reports remain in history in this form, then it is very poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U14	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U15	Thank you, Mr President. This is a beautiful story in itself, a good colleague of years, Eiki! The question of whether the sittings of the Riigikogu committees should be closed or public and what the minutes should be is very important. But there's nothing new under the sun. For quite a long time, the Presidents of the political groups of the Riigikogu have been attending the Chairman of the Riigikogu together under the name of the Council of Elders. These issues have been discussed for quite a long time and it has been agreed that there will be joint proposals, as this problem concerns all members of the Riigikogu, committees and political groups. What's your incentive now? Can you tell me what your group was forcing, I can't say plagiarism, but not to abide by these agreements? What's the rush?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U16	We're not in a hurry. At the time this bill was completed, it was in the spring of last year, no one had been called anywhere by the Riigikogu Board. As far as I am aware, the Riigikogu Board began to deal with the issue when it became clear that our law on home and working procedures and the law on public information are not in the best way of harmony, let's say so. As far as I know, there is also the secrecy of the protocols of at least one Riigikogu committee; I do not know by whom, by whom, the court has been challenged. This was the motivation of the Riigikogu's board of directors. Our motivation was quite different: to involve civil society organisations in the work of the Riigikogu. Good colleague Väino, there is no rush in my opinion either. If there is a desire for co-ordination, there is a sense of agreement on how to organise the work of the Riigikogu committees in such a way that everything can be classified and everything is closed, but the public gets the impression that everything is public, does not come because we do not agree with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U17	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Good Eiki! The laws usually look very good on paper, but my question is purely practical. You are an experienced member of the Riigikogu, you have been on most committees, you know the size of committees. What about these interest groups? If we have regular cooperation partners who are here every Monday, where would we accommodate them? It's just a practical little obstacle. I recall my committee meeting yesterday. We had to release the premises so that another committee could start holding a meeting. This legislative amendment creates merely physically minor obstacles.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U19	No, I don't think that's gonna be a hindrance. For example, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I imagine there will be two or three permanent partners. I don't think there'll be any more. Those partners who would like to cooperate constantly and who would have something to say have the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I think, one-two, the Committee on Rural Affairs also has one-two. Perhaps the Social Affairs Committee could have the most of these partners. It is not meant that every non-profit organisation becomes a partner. Indeed, these must be partners who have been in cooperation with the Riigikogu Commission all along.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U20	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U21	Thank you. Dear waitress, Similar issues have been resolved at different levels. Local authorities have quite a lot of experience here. There is, in particular, a tradition that each political group shall appoint to committees in proportion to those who are not members of its assembly. This has proved to be the most productive of the various options. If we start simply taking cooperation partners, there will be a problem of unequal treatment. If we make participation more free, then it happens that during certain phases of the moon there are those who will definitely want to say their word, more and more. Can we approach it on the basis of the tradition of local government and decide who they involve as partners among those who are not members of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U22	In essence, the same has been proposed here, only in the form of a slightly different scheme. The inclusion or non-inclusion of this "expert review" is done by the Commission, not by the group. I fully commend the practice of local governments to involve the local society as members of the Commission. This is an extremely sensible and useful activity. The fact that this can be done at local level is very nice. In the case of the Riigikogu, the question probably arises in a slightly different way. At local level, they are members of the Commission with voting rights, not just a say. However, this is a matter of lawmaking, and this is happening a little differently. I have not left this 'expert reviewer' to the political groups, but to the Commission. If they came through the political groups, there would certainly be many of them and there would be even a question of how many there must be.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U23	Thank you. Please, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Good bill waitress! I have two questions. Firstly, is the objective of more publicising only the work of the committees and of involving more stakeholders not less ambitious? In fact, fractions are also equivalent bodies. Have you thought the same thing about the factions? Secondly, where can I read the minutes or reviews of the meetings of the Social Democratic Party Group, for example, now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U25	As far as I'm concerned, we'll discuss this in the process of handling the bill. As far as I know, there is no regulation on this in the Home and Working Procedures Act. This is a subject that could be discussed. But in the case of Riigikogu committees, it should definitely be in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U26	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The current domestic and operating procedures also allow for quite a large and large degree of inclusion. The question is whether we are making good use of all these opportunities. For example, I have such experience from the Committee on Monetary Affairs that we have met working groups, such as the Association of Construction Materials Producers, the Tobacco Manufacturers' Association, etc., when dealing with tax laws. The problem is that we organise too few of these groups first. Secondly, members of the Riigikogu are passive in their participation. Should we not think about how to better ensure that stakeholders are involved under the existing regime?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U28	Indeed, there are differences in practice within the existing regime. The practice of working groups is rooted primarily in the Committee on Economic Affairs, not so much in other committees. There is also very little in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The practice of working groups certainly has its advantage, because the parties involved can say something. But I also think there is a minus: after that it will not be reflected anywhere, not in any of the Commission's minutes or documents, it will be just a meeting of lobbyists and Members. I do not believe that serious decisions will be taken outside this room after we allow the representatives of the civil society to attend the Commission's meeting. There will be no significant change here. Also today, some issues are being discussed between coalition partners, some issues are being discussed in the working group of coalition partners, etc., up to the notorious crocodiles. They are forms of ordinary political debate and communication, and they do not disappear anywhere. It is important how the Riigikogu itself, as a body, is open to NGOs and whether there is a decent, clear and understandable trace of all this to society. That is the point of this change. I, by the way, am not much of a team supporter. I'm not gonna do it either, because I realize it's still better than not communicating at all. But I prefer that all those who have something to say can do it in committee. It would certainly be better than some kind of task force somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U29	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U30	Thank you. Good Eiki! In fact, we can still go to the Commission and listen to the debate. But you said you didn't think there would be more than two or three of these partners. How do you know that? In my opinion, the number of all kinds of NGOs is increasing. If there is any way to regulate who can come and who can not, I think it will increase bureaucracy and confusion when there is still a need to develop some kind of cool nudge about who has the right to come and listen to what Eiki says in the Commission and who does not have the right to do so. Now, in fact, the representative of the NGO can come in completely calmly, if the Commission and the chairman of the committee agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U31	He can come now if the committee chairman calls, but if he doesn't, he can't come. Even the chancellor of the ministry can't come unless he's invited. That's the question. I have also given examples that there are committee presidents who call and committees where this has been good practice. This has been the case for many years in the Commission, and here again I am setting an example for the Committee on Culture. However, there have also been committee presidents who have said that they are not inviting anyone. In truth, they didn't even call, and nobody went there. For a very long time, I was a member of a committee to which, purely because of the principle, no one was invited. At other times, serious disputes had to be raised within the committee as to why the chairman of the committee did not invite anyone. But if he doesn't, he won't call, that's all. That is the current provision of the law. How come I don't think there's gonna be a lot of partners? After all, we can all see who are those who are seriously engaged in the work that can be called the drafting of the law and the paragraph. Those who have one, two or three opinions about something are certainly more, but there are not so many who are dealing with the actual legislation. For example, students have their own representative organisation and can handle it. We have a Chamber of Commerce, a Confederation of Employers and a Confederation of Trade Unions. They are such recognised organisations operating across the country that are able and able to participate in this process. Why am I saying this? Because it is not so easy, it requires constant work. This non-profit association must also have the capacity to participate in this activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U32	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, When you answered an earlier question, your answer was incomplete. There are no arguments to suggest that this particular draft is not a result of the hijacking of teamwork, but has already been invented a long time ago. Ultimately, after some kind of agreement, one party has presented it and shown it as a labour force. When it comes to these proposals, in particular the proposal to completely publicise the work of the committees, it must be said that the implementation of this principle in other countries has led to a significant increase in the impact of non-parliamentary forces, lobby groups, representatives of special and private interests on the work of Parliament and its committees. Why should this be a goal? Why do you want this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U34	I think you really screwed up with your question now, ladies and gentlemen. I do not know that anyone would have discussed such a draft text in the Riigikogu. I have not seen the fruitage of any collective work in this form, and I do not know that anyone would have done it. I have been debating this issue for a very long time with people who are helping the Riigikogu to draw up these drafts. I know that their understanding of how open or closed the Riigikogu commission should be is quite different. What the Riigikogu Board thinks about this, I can't predict. As far as lobby groups are concerned, this is a bit different. I do not think that those who participate in the committee session should be lobbyists. However, I think they should be representatives of non-profit organisations. Under the definition of a classic lobbyist, sizes such as the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Employers, the Confederation of Trade Unions or the Association of Student Associations do not fit. Lobbyists are different characters. They also do their work with sound thought and knowledge. There has been talk of the need to regulate lobbying, though under other laws. I won't deny that. I think it may be necessary, above all, for lobbyists themselves, as well as for the MPs, so that they do not get the impression that someone is dealing with something that cannot be dealt with. However, there is something else to do with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U35	Thank you. Please, Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U36	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! A few days ago, I read the article by Sven Mikser, Chairman of the Social Democratic Party, on the work of committees. He proposed a much more open solution than was proposed in this draft, up to the point of making web transfers from committee meetings. Now, if you compare the position of the party chairman with that of the draft, you can see that the difference is quite remarkable. Since the sessions of the Social Democratic Party Group are not public, I have no choice but to ask you: what is the position of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U37	I've already tried to answer your clever question. I guess I wasn't clever enough to let you understand, but maybe you were clever and you just pretended you didn't understand. We had a lively debate on this. Everyone supports this principle of web coverage. But if you're gonna break the law on home and work as a professional, you're gonna realize there's no place to write this section. Furthermore, the fact that one of the Commissions is making these transfers in complete peace and within the framework of the current Rules of Procedure has led us to refrain from writing this paragraph. There's nothing to change for that. But if, during the further procedure of the draft, you are firmly convinced that such a paragraph would be necessary, I think you and I will formulate it together. I do not mind, although practice shows that there is no real need for this section.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U38	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U39	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! You said the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would, in your opinion, have one or two of these cooperation partners. You also said that identifying partners could be based on dealing with certain drafts or texts, or also on politics. We have political parties represented in Parliament and unrepresented parties there. Certainly these unrepresented parties are also engaged in some texts and politics, they have their own views, etc. If we say that these cooperation partners could be one or two, should these parties be excluded from them? If I take one party as a partner, for example, why do I have to turn down others?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U40	I said this in the light of the experience I have from this committee, which I myself belong to. I know a little about the work of other committees. I think, for example, that it is perfectly normal for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to have a partnership with non-profit organisations and foundations. They must have a lot to say. If the issues of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs continue to include all those related to local government and administration, it would be perfectly normal for one of the partners to be a union of rural governments and a union of cities or their association. I think it is important to welcome those parties who wish to come here, but I think they are expressing something else, however, not any broader, clear, common interest that would come here through the civil society.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U41	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U42	Good manager! Good waitress! I just have a very specific question. Paragraph 36 (5) clearly states that if more than half of the Commission's membership is accepted, any person who so requests may take part in the Commission's meeting. Why, then, do we need paragraph 3? I think it is a very good and correct proposal that if more than half of the members of the Commission agree that this or another guest will come to the committee, that decision could be that. There should not be points where it is foreseen whether someone from the Governing Board or someone else is proposing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U43	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U44	Good folklore Chef! This item is also included in the current Home and Working Procedures Act in such a form. On the basis of this point, the committees mainly organise events, which are briefly referred to as White Hall meetings. The Commission will conduct a public consultation on a subject, invite speakers and announce the time and anyone who wants to come. It is currently in the law and it must continue to do so in the future. The main subject of this draft regulation is ordinary Commission meetings, not public debates. The Commission can continue to hold discussions in the way it is currently doing. The launch of these public debates was a very right and sensible step. It has to stay that way. We are going to regulate some other issues with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U45	Thank you. Good Eiki! I was one of those who opposed this bill. It's no secret. Why did I object? For two reasons. First of all, the Social Democratic Party is trying to cut laurels with this bill and also with one of the next drafts, instead of doing collective work in the Riigikogu and resolving many things together in a positive way by consensus. Secondly, because the establishment of lists of partners in such committees is harassing and restricting the activities of the public and its ability to participate in legislation. I would like all citizens and their organisations to have the right to register for this. Stupid is the committee that does not listen to a good opinion or a proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U46	With this draft, we are in no way restricting the possibilities for non-profit organisations that do not obtain permanent partner status. These opportunities, which they now have, will remain for them in the future, including that they will continue to be invited to the Commission meeting if the Commission considers this to be right. However, there are attempts to introduce a slightly different status for certain associations that work all the time. These NGOs, mentioned by Peep Aru, will continue to participate in the work of the Commission on the same basis as they do today. I, of course, congratulate you, Peep, on your desire to resolve matters in a consensual and more mutual understanding, but I can see that in practice this is unfortunately done with a push of a button.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U47	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U48	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! Perhaps you will briefly explain how the Bureau's decision is different from that of the Commission. Either way, it's the coalition's predominance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U49	This can be discussed in the future when dealing with the draft, so that somebody should give this status somewhere, so that it is unambiguously clear who has it and who does not. It would be easy if it were different, because this question, which has been asked repeatedly in this Chamber today, arises also then. We offered such a solution that someone should make this decision on behalf of the Riigikogu by listening to the Commission. The Bureau was proposed for this purpose because, if there were any disagreements, there would be one impartial decision-maker. In essence, however, the Commission's decision as to whether or not it is a permanent partner is decisive.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U50	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U51	Thank you. I am a little concerned as chairman of the committee, because it has now become clear which bad people are chairmen of the committees. I understand that the committee chairman will be deprived of the right to decide and someone else will decide who is the greatest friend of the committee. Can you explain in more detail who gives this status, based on which document? How will it be decided which NGOs will receive this dignified status?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U52	Here's the scheme we're proposing. Recognised non-profit organisations apply for this status from the Riigikogu. The Board of the Riigikogu hears the Commission's opinion on whether or not it is their constant partner. If so, he will say yes and they will receive this status by decision of the board.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U53	Thank you. Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U54	Thank you. Dear waitress, I too share the concerns expressed by the questioners. In my two-year work here, I have realised that the Commission is the main working body from which the drafts reach the large hall. Do you not share the concern that, because of the new procedure, the meetings of the committees may turn into a public meeting on some problematic drafts and maybe the drafts will never make it to this Chamber? Would it not be enough to have a compromise option that there is one public sitting for each draft, where all those who wish to take part can participate, but at some point, however, the chairman of the committee would be able to hold a committee meeting so that the members of the committee could really deepen and vote and take the necessary decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U55	No, I don't share that concern. I know that the committees actually have these cooperation partners. It shouldn't be too hard. I don't think it's a big public meeting either. I believe that perhaps not every bill needs this public meeting. There are very many drafts which, after all, do not create a very lively debate in the Commission. The introduction of such a provision would appear to be unfounded. There are concerns about how many of these partners are, how they become partners, where they all sit, and whether they can fit in one room. I am particularly concerned that the drafts are being discussed in the Riigikogu in such a way that they come from a political room, reach the Chamber of the Riigikogu, the Commission, the next political room, and no one can say anything about them, unless he accidentally knows or accidentally tells him. This situation worries me more. The only place where you can express your opinion on the draft initiated by the Riigikogu is, of course, if you are not invited to the committee, is a newspaper, online media or any other form of media, but real cooperation with those who ache for the heart does not occur. This place should be in the Riigikogu. If the Government of the Republic can involve non-profit organisations, why can't the Riigikogu? I don't understand why you can't fight it. This matter worries me much more than whether there are one or two constant partners in the Commission, where they sit and whether this chair is soft or hard, etc. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U56	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Grief Dam!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U57	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, The areas of action of the committees vary widely. As we know, the National Defence Committee, which I belong to, is one such committee, where every week there is a sensitive issue that is also protected by NATO's secret. If this legislative amendment is adopted and some NGOs should urge them to come to this debate, which is protected by NATO's seal, how can they be rejected? The second option is that the National Defence Commission will hold its meetings at the headquarters. So how do you act when these things don't overlap?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U58	Thank you, my good colleague. I told you about it, but I'll tell you again. If the Commission's debate is covered by a degree of state secret or is a document intended for official use, as is the case in the work of the EUAK, then the procedure will remain as it is today. I don't see any change going on here. In these discussions, the work is done differently. It is now the case that the chairman of the committee may invite visitors to the debate on these points as well. Without permission, only the Minister can come. But if, for example, a person from the structure who is not a minister comes to a meeting of the National Defence Committee, then he must have an invitation, he cannot come there otherwise. This time will remain the same as it is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U59	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U60	Thank you. The National Defence Committee has been in the process for about six months of a draft law on the Defence League. All this time, the people of the Defence League as one of Estonia's largest civil society associations have also been present at our committee meetings. Have I accidentally broken the existing law because I have not asked for permission and the status of a great friend does not exist? I think our behavior has been perfectly normal. It seems to me that what they say about the remote is the reason they're looking for.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U61	I think this behavior is normal, too. You haven't broken a valid law, on the contrary, you've done the right thing. You, as chairman of the committee, have considered it appropriate to invite these people. The question is that the current law leaves the chairman of another committee the opportunity not to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U62	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Mr Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U63	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Draft 330, draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, which was initiated on 22 November 2012 (the signature of Eiki Nestor, which indicates that this draft was initiated on 22 November 2012) was discussed at the committee on 15 and 22 January. a. Several questions were asked and discussed in the Commission, but the main issue was why, in the committee, the Riigikogu and the so-called Riigikogu, one party needs to score a score on a topic that is in the common sense. It doesn't look very collegial, and it doesn't really look like it. The Commission decided unanimously to accept the draft and to put it on the plenary agenda on 29 January, or today. Secondly, it was decided to propose the termination of the first reading. There were 6 delegates in favour, 2 against and 2 abstentions. The next proposal was to set the deadline for submitting amendments on 8 April 2013 in order to leave the opportunity for the Board of the Riigikogu and the Assembly to come forward with their proposals so that they could also be taken into account. Finally, it was decided to appoint a speaker in front of you as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U64	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Lein Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U65	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Did I misunderstand that the Commission did not discuss anything of substance, i.e. only discussed whether SDE would score or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U66	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U67	At this stage we did not discuss it very substantially yet, but we did discuss the ideas that were proposed in this draft. There were quite a number of questions and answers to this and there was a long debate. But, yeah, we were just discussing whether or not to implement the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U68	Dear waitress, My question comes from what you have just said. Why do you think that the Riigikogu should act in a collegial manner as if it were two competing teams, and that political parties could not form their own opinions on what is happening there and the proposals there?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U69	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Rait Maruse! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The commission's proposal was that the first reading of draft 330 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for tabling 330 amendments. a on 8 April at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U70	We were guided by good practice of inclusion. If it is known that the process is taking place in the collection of cooperation, i.e. in the so-called iceberg, and at the same time it is known that the Riigikogu Board has taken the subject under discussion and wants to straighten it out, it would be wise to wait for these developments and move forward together.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U71	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act and the Political Party Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I would like to present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party Group has initiated a draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act and the Political Party Act. This bill has two broad objectives. Firstly, to make the threshold for unrepresented political forces in Parliament a little lower in order to get into Parliament. Secondly, in the electoral law, to increase the influence of the voter's vote in the formation of a parliament, especially in the case of the allocation of compensation mandates. In § 30 (5) of the Riigikogu Election Act, we want to make two changes. Firstly, we want to reduce bail twice to the minimum monthly wage set by the government for each person submitted for registration. Secondly, we wish to supplement this paragraph so that the new registered party will be released from bail for four years if it participates in Riigikogu elections. The point is that the new political parties cannot have qualified to receive support from the state budget. As the full bonus for 125 candidates is EUR 36250, the political party acting without the support of the state, unlike the political parties represented in Parliament, may find it difficult to pay it. At the same time, if this registered party did not get into Parliament at the first attempt, but received at least 1% of the voter's support, it would also receive support from the state budget, which would mean that it should be able to make bail next time it takes part in the parliamentary elections. In § 62 (3) and (4) of the Riigikogu Election Act, we want to reduce the current threshold of 5% for the distribution of district mandates and national compensation mandates to 4% and to extend to individual candidates the existing possibility of only party candidates to obtain a mandate from the district even if the number of votes represents at least 75% of the district's simple quota. This amendment should facilitate access to the Riigikogu for individual candidates and parties with less support. In order to be elected by means of a compensation mandate, it is necessary for the candidate to collect at least 5% of the district's basic quota. For example, 308 candidates were elected in the 2011 Riigikogu elections. Of this district's quota, 5% was 293 votes. Such candidates, who have been elected with very little support, have caused murmuring and questions about the representativeness of our electoral system. Therefore, we want to amend § 62 (6) and (7) of the Riigikogu Election Act and reclassify candidates in the national list of compensation mandates according to the ratio of the votes they have collected to the simple quota of the district. This is necessary because we know that the constituencies are very different in size. The number of voters varies considerably from ring to ring. For example, in the 2011 Riigikogu elections in 6th constituency, in Lääne-Virumaa, which is the smallest electoral district, 3910 votes would have meant 8% support. At the same time, in the 4th constituency, in Harju and Raplamaa, which are the largest electoral district, the same number of votes would have meant the support of only 3% of voters. We would also increase the minimum number of votes to be collected in order to be elected by the compensatory mandate to 10% of the basic quota. In § 77 of the Riigikogu Election Act, we wish to reduce the claim for votes collected in order to return bail from half to 10% of the simple quota in the district, from 5% of the national votes to 4%. We also want to reduce the minimum number of members laid down in the Political Party Act from 1000 to 500 members. This would greatly facilitate the formation of new political forces and, together with the other provisions of the draft that we have tabled, it would also support their achievement in Parliament. We also want to change the principles of allocating state budget allocations to political parties in such a way that half of the state budget allocations are distributed equally between all political parties represented in the Riigikogu and the other half in all elections to the Riigikogu by at least 2% of the political parties who have received the support of voters in proportion to the number of votes received. We want to keep at least 1% of the funding for the political parties who have received the support of the electorate. This is briefly the content of the draft that we have tabled. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U73	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Grief Dam!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U74	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I believe your worker bees have also made the next calculation. If your amendments had been in force in the 2011 elections, would your dream team, which would have been formed on the basis of these changes, have been very different from the current Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U75	As far as the number of political parties represented in Parliament is concerned, this would not have changed it, since the distribution of votes between political parties on a system proportional to our 5% threshold was rather different. The four political parties that have escaped to Parliament all received more than 17% of the votes of the voters. The first party left out, the fifth green party, gathered 3.8% of the votes in my memory, or it would not have qualified for the 4% threshold. In the case of a proportional system, the threshold has to be set somewhere. In fact, this threshold is always the search for a certain balance, so that Parliament represents as well as possible the priorities of the voters, so that too much of the votes that are given in the elections are not lost, not lost to parties that do not exceed the threshold, and, at the same time, Parliament is in a certain sense stable and able to work, perhaps not too fragmented. We remember that in 1998, before the election of the IX Riigikogu, the principles of political party formation and election were quite substantially changed. Election alliances, for example, were banned. At the time, the objective was to consolidate the relatively fragmented political landscape. Such regulations were introduced somewhat earlier. Now we see that consolidation may have gone too far. In fact, one very important change is certainly that the natural threshold for Parliament's entry and election has increased significantly. This means that the existing political parties are strong, with a relatively clear ideology, I very much hope so, and with a sufficiently strong organisational structure. This means that even with a lower threshold, the new political party will have considerably more difficulty competing with existing political parties than it did 10 to 15 years ago, not to mention 20 years ago, when we were preparing for the first free elections after the restoration of independence. As regards the individual candidates or exactly what the composition of the Riigikogu would have been, we did not really look at that. I suppose that, in the case of the allocation of compensation mandates, the result would be slightly different from the present one, but certainly in the right direction, in the sense that it would have more reflected the will of the voters.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U76	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U77	Dear waitress, The idea of restricting the membership of the Riigikogu members to two successive mandates has gathered a great deal of support in the so-called Riigikogu, as is currently provided for in the case of the President of the Republic. When you prepared this draft, was this also an opportunity under discussion as an amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U78	Honestly, I admit it wasn't. We remained strictly within the framework of the current constitution in preparation for this draft. We did not bring in any legislative changes that would require a change in the constitution. I think it makes sense to discuss such possible changes on its own, because the procedure for regularising them is much more complicated and longer. I dare not say that I myself would support such a proposal very deeply in my heart. But let this remain the subject of future discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U79	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question concerns the national electoral list. The President of the Election Committee of the Republic raised this issue at the meeting of the Constitutional Commission. In essence, this legislative amendment removes the idea of presenting a national electoral list before the elections, which is, as if, after the elections, based on the votes received. What is your position as to whether, after these legislative changes, it makes sense to present a national list at all before the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U81	If it requires separate regulation, I think it will certainly be possible to review the draft legislation when it is being dealt with. The way political parties rank their list, where the full list still has 125 names, whether it means ordering circuit lists simply from the first circuit to the 12th, or whether it is an alphabetical order, definitely deserves to be discussed on its own. It is clear that political parties may also wish to highlight in their campaign some of the people they, for example, present as candidates for their Prime Minister. But I think it's actually a second-rate question. Obviously a nationwide electoral list is not necessarily needed in the electoral booth in this case, but if it seems necessary to regulate it separately, we are certainly prepared to discuss it constructively during the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U82	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Lein Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U83	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, There should be several political parties in the Riigikogu; this has been discussed over time. There were too many political parties in politics programmes, the coalition is difficult to keep together and it is difficult to cooperate. Of course, the extreme example was Tallinn City Council when Jüri Manor was the mayor of Tallinn. It was a complete nightmare. To keep the coalition together, the city's budget required a lot of spending. But there are democracies that can handle two political parties. These are not young democracies, but very old democracies. What do you think is the optimal and correct option? Do we have to force this company to grow up here, or should we rather avoid it? Your suggestion requires that the more people there are in this room, the more fun it is to be here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U84	It is usually up to the electoral system whether it is a two-party or a multi-party parliament. Majority electoral systems, especially in large countries, usually lead to a parliament with two large political parties and proportional electoral systems, which are in place in most countries of continental Europe, lead to a multi-party parliament. If we compare Estonia with the neighbouring countries that use a proportional electoral system, we will see that the number of political parties represented in our Parliament is actually relatively small. We take the closest neighbour Finland, where the coalition is currently in power, which consists of six parties. This certainly does not make the work of this coalition very easy, but it still works in a country with a very strong democratic tradition. We know that in the Nordic countries coalition governments have managed the country as a minority government throughout the parliamentary period in very many cases. So it's possible. It is certainly not easy to keep coalition government together, run the country with it, and ensure political stability. I guess it doesn't necessarily have to be easy. Our concern is that, rather than looking at Estonia's political history in the short term, it is clear that the number of political parties represented in our Parliament is currently the lowest. After all, only four political parties have not existed in Parliament since the restoration of independence. Several electoral alliances also participated in previous elections. In the early 1990's, if my memory does not deceive me, there were electoral alliances that included, for example, the Reval Karske Rammer Society and the Noaroots Society of Healthy Life. At the same time, they were operating within a 'large electoral union'. It is difficult to say how many political forces were represented in the Riigikogu at the time, or whether these NGOs could be considered as separate political forces. But now we have four parliamentary parties, all of which are relatively large. The funding system for political parties also favours political parties represented in Parliament. The emergence of new political parties has been made rather difficult, also by not receiving support from, for example, the state budget. People's trust in political parties is not particularly high. I am not saying that it is very large elsewhere in Europe, but if we keep the thresholds artificially very high and if the political disappointment and alienation gets worse, at some point the alienation will break through as much as any high barrier. We certainly do not want the majority of the Estonian electorate's politics and politicians to be estranged behind him in order for the new party to be able to come to parliament. It would certainly be reasonable, in the interests of political stability and a constructive political debate, for the limit of access to Parliament to be sufficiently low, that if any party, no matter what, is based on a constructive platform or a spirit of protest, it is still gaining some support, it would have a real chance of getting into Parliament and taking up a demonstration here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U85	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U86	Thank you. Good colleague! In those days, thousands and thousands of people are going to apply for local government councils. Life shows that there are people on these lists who get one vote or two votes. In fact, only their own family will vote for them; they will play no part in politics. That's my question. You must have discussed all the sections of the bill thoroughly. I'm coming back to the bail that has to be submitted to the Republic Election Commission. Do you think it would be possible to use the bail system in municipal elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U87	I have to admit that when we prepared this draft, we remained within the framework of the Riigikogu Election Act and the Political Party Act; we did not discuss the issue of local government council elections. If you have constructive initiatives, it would be nice to deal with them in the future. The bail requirement in Riigikogu elections is actually due to the need to restrict access to elections to a certain extent. This is not entirely in line with the principle of parliamentary democracy, on the one hand, but it is once again a certain balance between a reasonable, rational and effective system and the principle of democratic, passive and active electoral rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U88	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U89	Good manager! Good waitress! During the debate on this bill, before you came to this big hall, did you also discuss this issue, that you should change the electoral circles? If you look at South-Estonia, there are three counties in Põlva-, Võru- and Valgamaa, but in Pärnumaa, Lääne- or Ida-Viru County there is one district. Surely there are quite different ways of obtaining the necessary votes. If we approach a regional one, which I very strongly support, then perhaps we should also look at the electoral circles?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U90	This is certainly quite a serious question, given the fact that we have electoral districts, such as the city of Tartu, where the local government unit completely coincides with the electoral district of the Riigikogu. The electorate does not entirely overlap, as non-citizens can also participate in municipal elections. Tallinn is divided into three electoral districts and eight electoral districts in the election of local government councils. We have electoral districts covering one county (e.g. Lääne-Virumaa and Ida-Virumaa), and we have electoral districts covering three counties (e.g. Võru, Valga and Põlva County in Southeast Estonia or West, Saare and Hiiumaa in West Estonia). It can certainly be chosen very differently in these circles. The conditions that candidates have in their election campaign are also more difficult than perhaps in another constituency. I am afraid that it is not actually possible to equalise all electoral circles and make it equally easy or difficult to become elected. We know that we have quite important demographic processes, internal migration and emigration from Estonia must be taken into account. Several electoral districts have lost voters from the elections to the elections. Järvamaa has lost one municipality to Lääne-Virumaa, which has led to a decrease in the number of voters. We also know that before the elections, the electoral committee will issue a new division of mandates. The size of the electoral circles has become very different: 14 mandates from the largest circuit and 5 mandates from the smallest. I'm sure you could look at that in the future, but I think we're kind of aiming at a "mobile target" here. In particular, it is as if good practice to redraw these circles for the next elections would not allow. We know from the past that, for example, West and Ida-Virumaa were largely divided into two electoral districts for certain political reasons, not so much because the electoral community had become overly or unreasonablely large. It was no bigger than the current electoral district of Harju and Raplamaa. It is not good political practice to do so on the basis of the specific interests of one or another political power. Certainly, in the future, we could discuss quite seriously what to do with such complex electoral circles involving several counties and how to make the election from there perhaps somewhat more equal to the election of the electoral circles involving one county or one municipality. One topic that has been discussed a great deal is that the Riigikogu increasingly reflects the interests of the voters of Tallinn and its immediate surroundings, because it is these who are represented by an increasing number of members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U91	Siim Kabrits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, When you drafted the draft, did you discuss the possibility of reducing the number of members of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U93	We didn't discuss it. The topic that the number of members of the Riigikogu could be smaller has been raised in some cases, and not only in recent years, but I dare say that in the past 15 years. From time to time, it has been said that the Riigikogu could be 61 members, for example. Public opinion is probably perceived by the Riigikogu as too large. At the same time, it is clear that if the number of members of the Riigikogu were reduced, the representativeness of the Riigikogu would decrease and the natural threshold of being elected would increase. It would be even more difficult for small interest groups, certain parties filling a narrow niche, parties focusing on some issues to access Parliament. This topic could certainly be discussed together with another topic concerning how well the Riigikogu actually serves all kinds of legal but also professional expertise. We have dated like a cat around a hot porridge about whether members of the Riigikogu could be advisers. The question is also whether the political groups are adequately served by professional advisors. It is clear that if the number of members of the Riigikogu is reduced, the number of subjects that the Riigikogu has to deal with will not be reduced. In such a case, it should certainly also be discussed in the context of the possible assembly of committees, otherwise the committees will become too small and will not be able to deal adequately and comprehensively with all the drafts that are pending. The need to serve the Riigikogu would then probably grow. In the case of a country with small and limited resources, this balance is constantly being sought.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U94	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You said that the current composition of the Riigikogu increasingly reflects the interests of the voters of Tallinn and its immediate surroundings, i.e. their share is increasing. Doesn't it seem to you that this bill that you have submitted actually deepens rather than solves this problem? For example, if the bill that we have on the table today were to apply as a law, there would be more people elected to Tallinn and its immediate vicinity than representatives from South-East Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U96	We didn't calculate it in this context. After all, this also depends on how electoral lists are created. It is clear, however, that it is much more difficult for individual candidates who are well-known on the ground to receive great support in the Western, Saaremaa and Hiiumaa constituency than in the city of Tartu, for example. That goes without saying. Is there some kind of regulatory way of resolving this issue? If you can offer it, we are certainly prepared to discuss it constructively.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U97	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Mart Nuti, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, will present this speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft law 329 was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at two meetings on 15 and 22 January. The first session concerned in particular the substantive issues of the draft and the second was the subject of procedural decisions. I also mention the invitation of the Riigikogu committee to the meetings. Alo Heinsalu, President of the Election Commission of the Republic, and Priit Vinkel, Adviser to the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu were invited to the meeting on 15 January. These persons were also invited to the meeting on 22 January. As the topics discussed in these sittings overlapd, I will deal with the two sittings together. First, two general remarks. Some members of the Commission raised the question, or rather expressed their surprise at why the Social Democrats came up with this draft. They pointed out that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had discussed a number of these issues in advance and had commissioned a similar draft from the Ministry of Justice. But it certainly does not take legislative initiative from the Socialists in any way. Secondly, the question was whether it would be appropriate to deal with electoral law and party law in a single draft. One is the 51 vote bill, the other is the ordinary bill. Once again, it must be said that, of course, it is the right of the initiators. But since this issue was in the debate in the Commission, I will mention it. In the case of this draft, the question also arose that, if the list of candidates in the Riigikogu elections were to be opened, it would be appropriate to maintain the requirement that the number of votes is at least 10% of the simple quota, as this in itself no longer regulates anything, as the candidates in the open list are lined up either way. The initiators agreed that this provision could be revised. On other issues, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs reached a consensus that we should address this draft together with the principles of a possible draft coming from the Ministry of Justice, as well as the proposals coming from the public assembly. This obviously increased the consensus of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on these decisions, as different opinions were expressed on whether or not the electoral list should be open and on how the funding of political parties should take place. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs was unanimous and that consensus was expressed in the result of the vote: 9 votes in favour, no one opposed, 1 abstention. It was decided to send the draft law to the first reading today (decided by consensus). It was proposed that the first reading be closed (by 9, no votes against and no abstention 1), that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 8 April 2013 (even with 9 members of the Commission in favour, no one opposed and no abstentions 1) and that my modest person be appointed rapporteur for the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U99	Good waitress, one question for you. Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! In the framework of this bill, was there any mention of combining local elections and Riigikogu election day?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U101	Thank you. No, there was no mention of this in the framework of this bill. This bill is purely about the topic of Riigikogu elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U102	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for tabling 329 amendments. a on 8 April at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fourth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U103	We move to the fifth item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act initiated by Tõnis Lukas, Andres Herkel and Juku-Kalle Raid. I ask Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to present to the Riigikogu the bill that Tõnis Lukas left us as an inheritance when he left the Riigikogu. We probably remember that he has defended the principle of open lists in the past, by proposing an amendment to another draft and writing articles in favour of it. The content of the draft proposal is substantially in line with the draft proposed above, but it is more specific in this sense that only one law is to be amended. Provision is made for a more concentrated transition to open lists, which would eliminate the possibility that someone would be elected to the Riigikogu simply because he has a higher place on the party list, thus overcoming the people who have obtained a better election result calculated on the basis of the district quota. We are of the opinion that since such an amendment to the electoral regime would create a level playing field in the lists, it would in turn favour independent and more reliable candidates for the people. This, according to our understanding, would make voters of the electoral system much more understandable and reliable. I am merely explaining some of the questions here. The subject has been discussed for a very long time. In fact, it is quite incomprehensible why we have so far not achieved the result that this simple change should be introduced. First of all, why has this topic been presented to the Riigikogu as a separate draft? We are of the opinion that the amendment of party law and electoral law should be separate. In itself, if one particular thing is to be done, it is probably easier to reach consensus, because we do not need to discuss the differences that may arise in the other nuances of the electoral law or in the nuances of any other law that may be subsequently amended. Why is this solution better than what has been said to share all the mandates in the district? In my opinion, the main argument is that it better respects the principle of proportionality of elections. I will give an example of how the Green List qualified in previous Riigikogu elections. They received a 7.1% grant across the country, while receiving only one district mandate, all the remaining five mandates were compensatory mandates. In principle, it is possible to have a party quite clearly exceeding the 5% threshold but not receiving or receiving very few mandates in circles. There has been even one example in history when Tallinn was divided into circles, and the party, which received support of about 7%, did not prove to be elected in any of the circles. Another question that I think is very important. In fact, does this change make the principle of open lists general in the Estonian electoral system? I'm sorry, I can't. I must remind you here that the European Parliament elections in 2009 still had completely closed lists in place. True, the next morning, after the amazing election of Indrek Tarand, the Coalition Council came together, decided to remove a draft from the table drawer and switch to open lists. They will now be used in the next European Parliament elections. However, at quite the same time, at the end of 2008, we changed the local government councillor's election law in this hall. This concerns only Tallinn, where local elections have different electoral districts and also a citywide list of compensation mandates that were legalised at the time. It is recalled that this was a legislative amendment that was attempted for the first time under the name of the Gender Equality Act and which was subsequently properly formalised as a separate law. However, for many voters in the forthcoming local elections in Tallinn, it may be unexpected that the compensation mandates (the sharing of which is in itself correct) were once a coincidence where the 7% vote party was excluded at all) were then divided on the basis of a closed list, without taking into account the number of personal votes at all. Bringing such a draft here before you is part of explaining the electoral system to society. Finally, I have the impression that, at times, when I meet people and when I read different opinions, very many people have not really understood that our electoral system has been significantly opened up compared to the beginning of the 1990s, when there were much more compensation mandates and there was no threshold for personal votes to enter the Riigikogu. As I recall, in the run-up to the 2003 elections, such changes were made that there are now more circuit charities. They are not calculated according to the district's full quota, but three quarters of the quota are sufficient. This significantly increased the proportion of circuit mandates in the composition of the Riigikogu. The threshold for personal votes, which is 5% of the quota in this district, was also established and varies depending on the size of the circuit. Since then, it has probably been the MP with the lowest number of votes in the Riigikogu who received just under 300 votes. But this trend should be consistently introduced in order to eliminate the slightest doubt in people that the composition of the Riigikogu will be decided somewhere in the party office, behind closed doors and in the dark. It would be wise to introduce the principle of open lists first into the Riigikogu Election Act, as proposed here. If we want to be consistent, we must also look at the local government council's election law, especially in the municipality as large as Tallinn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U105	Good waitress, thank you! You have questions. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U106	Dear waitress, You've been talking for a long time about how bad the closed lists are. The Republic of Estonia was restored in 1991 in view of the principle of legal continuity, but, as we know, in the Republic of Estonia before the war, from the birth of the Republic until 1933, elections were held only on the basis of closed party lists in the electoral circles. Then there was no mention of a lack of democracy; rather, it began to be discussed after 1933. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U107	Thank you. The electoral systems are very diverse and people's requirements for democracy will change over time. In general, what should be the way in which the lists are completely closed, or the parties themselves prepare them? In order for this to work well and understandably, it should be very strong parties with a wide coverage. This way of creating a list is also understandable to society. However, it often tends to be that this order, if not directly depending on the leader of the party, depends to a very significant extent on the party office. The countries where such a system is being used are still in place. One such country is Moldova, where such lists are used. In Ukraine, too, it was not long ago that all this vast land was essentially one electoral district and closed electoral lists were used. This may not have been the best solution, because in this case, the leaders of the individual lists were also at the centre of the pre-election campaign, perhaps at the very best, the top ten of the lists, while at the same time about 400 were selected. I think that this combination of personal votes and lists of political parties that have been introduced in Estonia is, in fact, a well-balanced electoral system. But you can make it a little better. That is the idea that the draft has been tabled.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U108	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This bill certainly deserves to be discussed in the future, and we will also find the right solution. But how do the other members of the IRL Group view this draft? There are only three signatories and one of them has now left the Riigikogu. Have you discussed this in the group? Do you have the support of a group?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U110	Thank you. We have been discussing this principle for quite a long time and we have also raised this issue in front of our partners. Tõnis Lukas' proposal was to come up with this idea in this form. Unfortunately, I was on an external mission when the vote was held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but, as far as I am concerned, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has decided to close the first reading of this draft. There is no other proposal coming from the IRL Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U111	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You said that if this draft finds support, it makes sense to move on to the amendment of the Local Government Council Election Act, which also concerns Tallinn. Do you intend to change this time within the framework of the Local Government Council Election Act or, for example, the Gender Equality Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U113	You should not address this question to me. I did have one clue to our memory here and to the memory of society. This was perhaps not the best practice at the time. But the change was finally introduced correctly and the local government council election law was amended. I was looking a little at the moves of the discussions at the time. There came up a whole series of questions very emotionally, starting with the way the bill was amended and ending with the number of council members. I must say that, unfortunately, from the focus of the debate at the time, the fact that a citywide closed list is being made. On the basis of this, it is currently the member of the Tallinn Council who received 15 votes with the lowest personal votes. If we want to be consistent, we must definitely come back to this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U114	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U115	Dear waitress, You've thought a lot about the electoral system, so I'm going to ask you the same question I asked before I asked Sven Mikser: how do you feel about the suggestion that a member of the Riigikogu could be limited to two successive compositions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U116	Thank you. This is a proposal that can be discussed, but I think that bringing it into the electoral law in such a form would not correspond to the idea of the Constitution, which gives the citizen the right to stand as a candidate, even as an individual candidate, if, for example, the list of parties does not accept him. Such restrictions are applied in some European countries, but are not limited to two successive compositions, but to three or four. However, in this case, the restriction will be applied on the basis of agreements within the parties, which is probably a somewhat more flexible way. I understand that there are also very senior MEPs in the forthcoming Italian elections, who are convinced not to participate this time on the basis of an internal agreement. As far as I know, something similar is happening in Switzerland. So there are examples, but bringing it into the electoral law would probably raise a very important question as to whether such a restriction is directly constitutional. But the party can make that decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U117	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U118	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! During the preparation of this draft, did you also discuss gender equality? There has been a lot of talk here about the so-called zipper system in the elections. One party has so far taken this into account and has put women and men on the list alternately. Were you discussing something like this, and do you even consider it necessary to involve women more in politics?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U119	Thank you. This is, of course, to be welcomed when Estonia's political culture is closer to the Nordic countries, where the proportion of women in politics is relatively high, not to the countries of southern Europe, where politics is traditionally and in old times much more male-dominant. We're somewhere between the two of them. We didn't discuss the possibility of bringing in some kind of extra system. I have to clarify this statement, but, if I remember correctly, in some political parties, the results of the election have been analysed from a surface which is more favoured by the system of closed lists, either women or men. It is concluded that the closed list system has rather favoured men, which is why this draft could provide a fairer representation approach from the point of view that there would be more women in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U120	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U121	Thank you. Good colleague! The explanatory memorandum states, and you also mentioned in your speech, that the ordering of persons on the list depends on two things: the number of votes and the size of the constituency. As far as the number of votes is concerned, everything is clear here. But can you talk more broadly about how this mechanism works, depending on the size of the constituency? There's a lot of circles.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U122	Thank you. If we are consistent until the end, we stick to it, as has been the case in Estonia's proportional electoral system so far, that everything is still based on the simple quota of the district, which is based on how many people participated in the elections and how many mandates there are in the district. The distribution of mandates between circles or the conceptual number of mandates is not 100% proportional, in the sense that there are some computational residues somewhere. However, we did not now consider calculating a simple percentage of all the voters who took part in the elections in this district, although such an approach could in principle be possible. This issue may be raised, but it is probably clearer from the point of view of the system if we stick to a simple quota. The simple quota, as we know, is larger in one district and smaller in another. The number of residents can grow and the voters can come, and then there will be one more mental mandate. It could change.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U123	Please, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U124	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear waitress, When you put together the draft, did you discuss such an idea in order to further explain the voter's will, perhaps it would make sense to draw up the electoral lists alphabetically? In this way, the voter might be even better placed to choose his or her candidate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U125	Thank you. This proposal has been under discussion and was also before the previous elections. In my opinion, it was Mart Laar and Mart Nutt who offered to switch to such an open list system. Alongside it, they also offered an alphabetic list. There is only one question that will be solved. It is precisely that if the weight of votes is equal for the various candidates, it is decided who receives the mandate of the Riigikogu on the basis of the last name of the candidate. Would that be quite right? However, in order to have a more equal relationship with all candidates on the list, alphabetic sequencing may be entirely practical. When we presented this draft, we came to the conclusion that it is appropriate to come up with the minimum necessary change. As I pointed out above, if you bring in a lot of elements, the focus could disappear and it would be more difficult to achieve consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U126	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U127	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, You spoke in your presentation about the intention to amend the Local Government Council Election Act. Do you also have a plan to amend the legal provision approved by the previous Riigikogu, which led to the increase of the number of members of the Tallinn City Council from 63 to 79, which did not fulfil your political objective? Can we be sure that there will be no bill before the local elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U128	Thank you. First of all, I did not speak of intention as much as I referred to the systemic mismatch that arises in the principle of open lists and remains after the principle that has been presented now has been introduced into the Riigikogu Election Act. It has been a practice in Estonia to change electoral laws by some reasonable time before the elections. I'm afraid we're already a little late in terms of local government council elections, but if there was a consensus in the Riigikogu that we could come up with such a change, we could. That's something I'd like to give you a hell of a lot of support. In such a case, it would probably be wise to consider in advance with the national law experts whether we are too late or whether this change can be introduced in the context of the municipal elections to take place this autumn. It can undoubtedly be enforced later. As far as the number of members of Tallinn Council is concerned, I think it could, in principle, be somewhat smaller. That's my personal position. But on the basis of a systemic approach, I think the bigger problem is that the city of Tartu, for example, was completely excluded from this regulation. We have said that there are several electoral circles in the municipality, where there are 300,000 and more inhabitants, in Estonian conditions only in Tallinn, but there is one electoral district in the municipality, where there are 100000 inhabitants, for example, in Tartu. I don't think that's quite right. We should also regulate other major cities (this relates a little to the question put by Jaak Allik above), because it may not be right to share dozens of mandates in one huge district.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U129	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U130	Thanks! It is now complicated by the so-called d'Hondt multiplier. I guess that's changed in time. I just checked with Mart Nut, which has been the lowest number of votes that has been received by the Riigikogu. Turns out it's 26 votes. This is no longer possible. But what do you think, Andres? We've been through this together, but please tell me what we've come to. How ready are the Estonian parties to come out with open lists at all, which would still reduce the chances of broilers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U131	Thank you. I think they could be ready for this after the discussion that has broken out in society. If you look at the results of the previous elections, this would actually change the composition of the Riigikogu by 10%. We hope to get to the end with this draft, however, otherwise we would not have brought it before Parliament. With regard to the lowest number of votes that have escaped to the Riigikogu, I think that 26 votes were an alternate who came to Parliament later. According to my information, the lowest number of votes has been 51. It was 1992. But I could be wrong here. Perhaps it is worth pointing out that the number of compensation mandates has been steadily decreasing. While in the 1990s there were about half of the delegates in each elected parliament with a compensatory mandate, there were 27 in 2003, 26 in 2007 and only 19 after the last elections in the Riigikogu in 2003. This probably depended to a large extent on the fact that only four political parties entered the Riigikogu last. If more parties get here, there will be more compensation mandates. But in my opinion, political parties, with individual exceptions, have learned to rank candidates according to their own ability to collect votes. This is definitely a positive direction. I think that if we look at this development, apart from the individual exceptions, we quite logically conclude that open lists should be laid down.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U132	Thank you. Please, Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U133	Thank you. I'll give you an explanation of the number of votes. In the 1995 Riigikogu elections, Kadri Ottis received 26 votes on the KÜ list. According to my memory, he wasn't an alternate. But I'm going to ask you about this bill that we're dealing with right now. Have you made approximate calculations of the number of votes with which the Riigikogu will be able to get to the Riigikogu after its entry into force as a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U134	Thank you. That's not the exact calculation I've made. I think that's going to increase by a few hundred, compared to now. This depends to a large extent on the distribution of votes. We have two thresholds. In order to obtain a compensation mandate, the threshold is currently 5% of the quota and 10% of the quota for a district mandate. I think it would rise by 10% of the quota. But theoretically, there might be a situation where it could be lower in order for the party to receive its proportional mandates. Therefore, it is also correct to point out that this 10% threshold does not make any sense in this case. But as far as the candidate nominated for the 1995 elections, who was referred to by the questioner, I think I'm right. He came to the Riigikogu as an alternate, however.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U135	No further questions. Thank you, Andres Herkel. I would like to ask Mart Nut, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U136	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This draft law was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its meeting on 22 January. In addition to the members of the committee, Alo Heinsalu, Chairman of the Election Commission of the Republic, and Priit Vinkel, Adviser to the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, were invited to the debate. In addition to the presentation of the draft, there was a meaningful debate on this draft. I would also like to mention that this draft coincides in part with the draft tabled by the Socialists on the previous agenda item. The proposal on the openness of the electoral lists also coincides in substance with the draft Social Democrats. The opinion on this draft was expressed that, as there is a debate on the electoral system in society, it would probably be appropriate to allow a relatively long deadline for the drafting of amendments to this draft, as was the case with the draft discussed on the previous agenda item, in order to obtain public feedback and opinions on what the organisation of the elections in Estonia could be. I would also like to mention that Alo Heinsalu, the Chairman of the Election Commission, drew attention to two issues which cannot be taken as a proposal, but as an appropriate comment. He pointed out that if the country-wide list were to be re-listed, the question would arise as to whether a national list would need to be drawn up at all. However, as a result of the debate, the Commission found that electoral laws are in many respects a matter of choice. It can certainly be done in this way and otherwise, but it cannot be said that this will not affect the outcome of the election. It still affects because the existence of a national list, even if candidates are re-ranked there, is still a list of preferences for the electorate and can quite certainly influence the behaviour of the electorate in a particular constituency. But I repeat, which system to use is a matter of decision. Secondly, Alo Heinsalu raised the question that it is currently agreed in the mathematical model that the ratio has been taken as a simple quota, but in theory it would be possible to take another number. The simple quota relates to the number of votes cast, but could also be used as a basis for the number of voters. Such a proposal has not been put forward by the initiators of the draft and was therefore not further debated by the Commission. In itself, this is again a question of choice, either from a simple quota or from the number of voters. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the basis that it is appropriate to expect further proposals on the subject of elections, took the following decisions: Firstly, the unanimous decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was to send this draft to its first reading on 29 January. Secondly, it was decided to propose the termination of the first reading (with 9 members of the Commission in favour, no one opposed and with 1 abstention). It was also decided to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 8 April 2013 (9 votes in favour again, no votes against and no abstentions 1) and unanimously decided to appoint me rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U137	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We have on the table quite a number of laws concerning elections, including parliamentary elections, direct presidential elections and local government elections, and probably more will come from the Riigikogu. Now, if these laws are to be observed, what is your position? Would it be wise to rethink the idea of writing an electoral code so that all elections are together and it would be easier for both the electoral and the electoral to keep an eye on all of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U139	Thank you. The Commission did not raise the question of the electoral code. I think this is certainly an issue that could be discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-29_U140	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thanks a lot, Mart Nutt! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of Bill 355 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 355 amendments. a on 8 April at 5.15 p.m. Today's agenda is exhausted. Thanks to everyone and see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 12.13 p.m.
