ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U1	Good fellows, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 13th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U2	Honourable members of the Riigikogu, on behalf of the Social Democrats, I will report an inquiry concerning support for children with special educational needs. I will give this question a second time because the Minister of Education asked for more time to think. I hope that we will soon have answers to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U3	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of nine members of the Riigikogu, I present an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Although much time has passed, we still remember the scandal of issuing residence permits. We had a firm understanding that everything was legally correct, that there was no violation of the law, that residence permits could be traded. There is only one question that concerns some of the underworld characters who, thanks to this office and the administration, received a residence permit in Estonia. Now that the year has passed, it would be interesting to find out whether they are still in Estonia and still have a residence permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U5	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U6	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to the Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur, on behalf of the members of the Central Party Group. This is about voting with an ID card. We discussed this issue here the week before, and I asked the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs how it would be impossible for me to vote in e-elections with the identity cards of my family members. Then I didn't get an answer to that question. I was doing a little research, and I got a little smarter. The electoral law provides for a person to vote in person, but there is no mechanism for effective control of whether or not a person has given a digital signature. The only way that a person who has abused this loophole will be to be punished is if the person whose voice has been stolen complains to the police. At the same time, it is not excluded that he will never know. In this regard, we have five questions for Mr Pevkur to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U7	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme, please! Good fellows, there's a lot of noise in the hall. I beg you to keep your voice down!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U8	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the 16 members of the Central Party Group, I will refer an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. This concerns road construction and maintenance. Roads and streets form an essential part of the infrastructure needed for day-to-day operation. Unfortunately, various studies and surveys show that their situation is getting worse every year. According to the 2011 Road Technology Centre study, the maintenance of state roads has been underfunded for a long time, with cumulative underfunding of EUR 836 million. The cumulative underfunding of local government roads is around 300 million euros. As a result, the road surfaces of the main Estonian roads are on average 13 years old, the road surfaces of the main roads are on average 25 years old and the road surfaces of the secondary roads and local roads are already 30 years old. We want to get answers from Juhan Parts about how we're going to get out of this difficult situation. We have eight questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U9	Please speak to the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates four draft laws: firstly, the draft law amending the Construction Act, the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts; secondly, the draft law amending the Financial Supervision Authority Act and the Investment Funds Act and related amendments to other laws; the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi; thirdly, the draft law amending the feed law and fourthly, the draft law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union. In processing the last two draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U11	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four drafts and four inquiries, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment and implementation of the law on law enforcement initiated on 22 April, the leading commission of the Committee on Legal Affairs; second, the Government of the Republic. a draft law on motor insurance, initiated on 22 April, commission of the Economic Commission; thirdly, the Government of the Republic. A draft law on the amendment of the Aliens Act and the Identity Documents Act, initiated on 24 April, and related amendments to other laws, commission of the Constitutional Commission; fourthly, the Estonian Centre Party Group. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Advertising Act, initiated on 24 April, commission of the Economic Affairs Committee; fifthly, in the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu. a draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Allowances Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, initiated on 25 April, Committee on Social Affairs; 6th, Social Democratic Party Group. a Draft of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic," presented on 25 April, the Committee on Social Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a The following drafts were submitted to the European Commission on 29 April, 2 May and 3 May. Firstly, a draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on financial liability for the resolution of an investor-state dispute in arbitration under an international agreement to which the European Union is a party. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed a Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions and draft of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the opinion is 9 May at 4 p.m. Secondly, the product safety and market surveillance package launched by the European Commission. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions and drafts, communications and report of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the opinion is 9 May at 4 p.m. Thirdly, a draft decision of the Council of the European Union authorising Member States to sign, ratify or accede to the Cape Town Agreement of 2012 on the implementation of the provisions of the 1993 Protocol relating to the Torremolinos International Convention on the Safety of Fishing Vessels. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions and draft of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the opinion is 9 May at 4 p.m. Fourthly, a draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 establishing common rules on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights, and Regulation (EC) No 2027/97 on air carrier liability for the carriage of passengers and their luggage by air. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions and draft of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the opinion is 16 May at 4 p.m. I would now like, above all, to ask for the attention of the members of the Economic Commission. We have also received a draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures to reduce the cost of deploying high-speed electronic communications networks. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions and draft of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the opinion is 16 May at 4 p.m. Sixthly, a draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Economic Commission and the Environment Committee to give an opinion on the positions and draft of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the opinion is 16 May at 4 p.m. Seventhly, the European Commission's "Consultation Document on State aid in the agriculture and forestry sectors' and the "Little Aid Regulation' questionnaires. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Government of the Republic to give an opinion on the revised position and questionnaires of the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. The deadline for the opinion is 23 May at 4 p.m. Eighthly, the draft regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing an Entry/Exit System (EES) and a Registered Traveller Programme (the so-called "e-border package"). The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed a Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions and drafts of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the opinion is 16 May at 4 p.m. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. Good fellows, we're conducting a presence check! 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15. We shall proceed to the adoption of the agenda. Dear colleagues, I will vote on the 13th working week agenda in the form proposed. Please take a stand and vote. The agenda has been approved with the result of 80 members of the Riigikogu, against 2 and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U12	Let's get to today's questions. The first is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme, Olga Sõtnik, Kalev Kallo, Priit Toobali, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi, Ester Tuiksoo, Mailis Repsi, Kadri Simson, Aivar Riisalu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Lauri Laasi, Peeter Võsa, Enn Eesmaa and Eldar Efendijev on 26 March, which bears the number 313. The question is answered by Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. I ask Tarmo Tamme to present the contents of the inquiry as a representative of the questioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Our question is about reducing home expenses. One of the goals of the housing development plan is to improve the quality of the Estonian Housing Fund and make it sustainable. The Estonian Housing Fund has become obsolete, depressed and energy-intensive, so people's home costs should be reduced by making a significant contribution to the reconstruction of apartment buildings and private houses. One indicator of this measure is the target set in the housing development plan that the number of apartment buildings reconstructed through renovation support will increase to 8000 residential buildings by 2013. Unfortunately, the funds available to meet KredEx's loan claims have not been sufficient. Last year, KredEx already ran out of money for this purpose in May, and the grants for this year are already at an end. Unfortunately, the same is true of the renovation allowance paid to the owners of KredEx's private houses. Last year KredEx started receiving applications for support for the reconstruction of small houses on 30 April, and this money ran out in August. This year, however, applications for aid for the reconstruction of small houses are not already accepted, as the amount of support requested is twice as high. Urmas Mardi, member of the board of the Estonian Association of Apartment Cooperatives, has expressed the opinion that 5,7 million euros of the money from the sale of allowances received this year is clearly not enough to renovate apartment buildings. According to Statistics Estonia, housing costs were 10.4% higher in February than a year earlier. The growth in domestic costs has been driven by the opening-up of the electricity market, which has increased consumers' electricity bills by a quarter. However, the Monopoly Control Act and the Homeowners' Land Tax Exemption Act also play a role in this growth. The Monopoly Control Act brought the price of water under the control of the Competition Authority and this step was to contain the price increase. By now, however, the Competition Authority has authorised prices to be increased to the majority of water companies that have requested them to do so. The Land Tax Exemption Act for Homeowners, however, has brought to its name a surprisingly large land tax notice for thousands of people who have commercial premises on the lower floor of their apartment building. We, Minister, have five questions for you in your inquiry. Perhaps you'll be so kind as to read them before you begin to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U14	Thank you. I now ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications of the Riigikogu to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U15	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable heirs and other members of the Riigikogu! I will answer the questions I have been asked. First of all: 'How do you comment on the opinion of Urmas Mardi, member of the board of the Estonian Association of Apartment Cooperatives, that the money from the sale of allowances is clearly insufficient to renovate apartment buildings? How do we plan to increase funding for renovation of apartment buildings in the coming years? ' We have allocated EUR 120 million for the renovation of apartment buildings under various programmes and measures in 2008-2012. These amounts are from different sources. Initially, in 2006, when this topic came to the agenda, only EUR 19 million were planned to be allocated. This year's budget has added EUR 10 million. Last week, the government found a total of EUR 16 million for KredEx to allocate a further renovation loan from state resources to KredEx. I dare say that these have been the necessary steps to acknowledge and launch the fundamental renovation of our apartment building fund. As regards the claim that the money from the sale of allowances is not enough, that is correct. We need to find other sources. I can say today from this remote control that we have agreed, in principle, in the government, on a general framework for using European funds for the period 2014 to 2020. One priority will certainly be to continue renovation of apartment buildings. We see investment grants of EUR 102 million, which, depending on the pace of renovation later, in 2018 and beyond, must be complemented by the possible performance reserve that the government provides for for European funds. It can now be said that if all the preparatory work goes according to plan, it will be possible to open an additional source of financing for renovation of apartment buildings as early as next year. In addition, in the meantime, the experience to date should be fully summarised. A proper renovation has affected up to 5% of the housing fund. We need to look at technological developments, but in a large way, subsidies, as we have offered them, depending on the energy savings we can achieve, either 15%, 25% or 35% of the cost of the renovation project of the building management company, must be continued in this way. Certainly, housing associations can use these funds to prepare renovation projects; they must be high quality energy audits, decent projects. These amounts are not very high, but I think the preparatory work is very important for the successful renovation. As regards the loan resource, as we have separated it through KredEx, I think that the country has two choices. Perhaps not to allocate a loan resource if the conditions of the banks are satisfactory. We see that the market for long-term loans has stabilised and that it is relatively attractive to borrowers when it is a good project. The second option is that last week we allocated EUR 16 million from state funds to KredEx so that long-term fixed-interest loans can be offered to housing cooperatives through banks. The amount of interest does not differ very much from the size of the market interest rate, it is zero decimal points. That's a short answer. The whole programme will certainly continue on a larger scale and hopefully we will be able to achieve a situation where we can really say that some substantial part of our housing fund has been renovated so that we do not heat the air outside, not waste people's money, but save people's money. Just in case, as far as cost savings are concerned, some 500 houses have been renovated so far and the average savings achieved are around 40%. Of course, everything depends on the condition of the house. If there has been a very poor house, heat cost savings will also be above 50%. If the house has been on a good level, there have been some previous work done, then, of course, cost savings will be lower. However, the average figure for projects supported by KredEx is at least 40%. The second question was, when can owners of small houses apply for reconstruction aid again? The answer is that we intend to continue with an analogous small housing support programme. As a source of funding, we see the amounts from the sale of CO2 quotas allocated to the country. The government office has made a fundamental decision that if the revenue from the sale of CO2 quotas is derived from an optimistic scenario, the volume of its turnover will depend very much on what the emissions trading market will be in the coming years, then we will allocate at least EUR 5 million to implement the small-scale housing support programme. But I would like to emphasise once again: the current situation is that the price of the CO2 quota is relatively low. That's about 2.5 euros per tonne. Various plans have been made. When we presented this year's budget, we calculated the price of EUR 5 to 6 per tonne. In other parts of Europe, very optimistic forecasts have been made with a price of 10 tonnes, even 20 euros. As the emissions trading system entered into force in a new way only on 1 January 2013, it has not yet stabilised. Nor is the momentum of the European economy such as to create more demand. The price is inevitably below and, as a result, the planned amounts that we would like to focus on energy efficiency are, to a certain extent, in question. But I believe that it will be clear by the end of the year when the market has made its reactions and it has settled. The third question: "How has the law on the control of monopolies helped to reduce people's household costs? ' First of all, I regret to note that there have been statements here, as if the law on the control of monopolies were an empty law. I have been dealing with businesses on the one hand and regulators on the other, and the opposite is the impression: if we look at the structural changes that the law on the control of monopolies has brought about in the warm economy, then it must be assessed rather successfully. Let me give you a few examples. We have imposed a requirement that all prices for district heating must be coordinated with the Competition Authority. It has created the possibility that if the price of fuel falls by 5%, we will have a real control mechanism that will also force the warm price to be adjusted accordingly. In the past, when it concerned only 40 companies, a very large number of heat plants fell out of the system. Secondly, thanks to the fact that the Competition Authority has now also seen a warm-up economy in 160 companies that were not previously controlled by the Competition Authority, we have come up with a real picture of the opportunities to restructure the entire heating economy. At the moment, we are planning a legislative amendment as an additional measure, as well as a national investment support programme for the heating economy, particularly in areas where the population is smaller. This concerns the transition to a cheaper source of heating, the reduction of losses in heating transport, and much more. I can say that under the same agreement on European Union funds, EUR 78 million will be invested in the heat economy in the next period under the state support programme. In fact, the state of affairs, thanks to the Law on the Control of Monopolys, is numerically visible to everyone at prices, it is known how much anyone actually pays in the Estonian region and what is behind these costs. There wasn't one before. The second thing is that the law on the containment of monopolies has led to a clear mechanism for putting pressure on the monopoly to switch to much cheaper fuel, or local fuel at current prices. This concerns, above all, places where natural gas or fuel oil has been used so far. Now they have the motivation to switch to local fuel. We can say that switching to local fuel will result in a 20-60% discount on heat, depending on the heating area. According to this law, the owner of the network can no longer sit idle and heat expensive oil shale oil. The law also provides for third party access to the network. If the network owner is not interested in switching to fuel that is more favourable, an investor independent of the network owners may also start making investments. As a result, investments have already shifted to local fuel or started in several county centres and other settlements, such as Rapla, Jõgeva, Põlva, Rakvere, Jüris, Kuressaare. There will be a wider substitution of natural gas, which is known to be much more expensive than biomass or some other fuel. In 2013 Eesti Energia waste incineration plant will be launched in Tallinn, which will reduce both strong competition in heat production and lower the price of waste. Tallinn Heating has conducted a competition and is expected to be completed by 2016 in addition to the Väo power plant, another local fuel boiler house will be completed. In Tallinn, the heating pipes are finally connected, and then there will be no more two different regions in Tallinn at very different prices. All these changes are, in fact, largely driven by the mechanisms laid down in this law. In addition, the law requires companies to save energy. The Minister for Economic Affairs has established the permitted line losses, which have been very much discussed. Let me give you a few examples of what is allowed in the cost-based price. In 2011, the acceptable rate of line losses was 21%. This will gradually decrease and should not exceed 15% in 2017. In other words, there is a regulatory mechanism in place for a heat plant to reduce its line losses or otherwise to bear these costs itself. The same applies to the price of water. Since my time is running out, just to comment so much that in many respects the rise in water prices is due to the fact that very large investments in infrastructure in the European Union have been made and, of course, these investments are reflected in the cost-based price. The coordination of water prices in major water consumption areas by the Competition Authority was the only possible and sensible step. It is difficult to imagine such a disorder as has been the case in the case of the fixing of water prices not only in the larger municipalities, but also in the smaller ones. The price of water was a playground for politicians, which hit water availability in some parts of the world. The following question: 'How do you justify the initiation and adoption of the Monopoly Control Act and the Land Tax Exemption Act for homeowners if they have actually increased the cost of homework for many people? ' I tried to explain, these general claims are not true. In my opinion, both laws are important to keep home expenses under control. And the last question is why, for the government coalition, people who have a home in an experience with commercial premises are different from people who do not have commercial premises in their homes. My view is that certainly homeowners are in no way different and this aspect of the Land Tax Act needs to be clarified in order to ensure equal treatment. As far as I know, the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu has already set up this working group. The Ministry of Finance has also been involved to find a solution to these individual cases. Indeed, homeowners must be treated equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U16	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U17	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I ask a question at the request of the Narva Housing Association, I hope for a constructive answer. The price of heat in different regions of Estonia is very different. The minimum price is EUR 34 and the maximum price is EUR 108 per megawatt-hour. At the same time, there are many houses of the same type in different regions, such as five-storey 60 apartments and four stairwells. The companies involved in the insulation claim that if the price of heat in the region is 70 euros and more, the insulation of the house on the basis of a certain project gives a positive result: heat savings are so high that they cover the credit taken. But where the price is less than 60 euros, renovation gives a minus: heat is saved, but the credit is very large. Are there any available medians for different types of houses to determine whether it is useful to heat or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U18	This is a very technical question, but I am trying to answer in general. Well, maybe you can be more specific. Firstly, in my opinion, if the house is not renovated, insulation should be cost-effective in any case. Secondly, you rightly referred to the difference between warm prices in different regions of Estonia in your question. I think Narva is a clear exception here because there is just a lot of heat left over in electricity production. But when we look at other Estonia, it is quite clear that certain warm prices must be considered completely anomalous. I'll bring you a range of 50 to 60 euros for a megawatt-hour. Everything else is, in fact, consumer abuse. However, this does not mean that the owner of the dwelling or other consumer does not need to have the incentive to stop heating the ambient air. We will certainly also analyse the different models of.. it is, of course, reasonable to do so. It seems to me that the Association of Housing Associations has taken a welcome initiative here to create a public reference database on the different types of houses and the sources of heating used. There is a great need for public awareness to increase to the extent that people can compare different heating prices. As a result, people's readiness to renovate as well as the requirements for hot enterprises would grow.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U19	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U20	Mr Minister, correct me if I misunderstand. Is it really this year that EUR 16 million will be allocated to KredEx to support housing associations in renovation work? Should 10 million come from allowances money and 6 million from somewhere else? But at the same time, you said that since CO2 quota prices are quite low now, maybe it will not be enough for 10 million. So you're adding more than 6 million from other sources?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U21	Thank you. This year, the state budget provides EUR 10 million for investment support. This is the state budget expenditure and relates to the money received for the CO2 quotas sold by the State. The first four months have shown that sales have gone pretty well. Forecasts of how much a country can earn despite the fall in the price of quotas in 2013 dare to suggest that this EUR 10 million is likely to be met, maybe a bit of a shift here and there. It's May. The situation on this market changed, in particular, in recent months, as a result of a certain debate within the European Parliament. That's one. It's investment support. We fully understand that its demand is high. In my opinion, this demand is a good one, which shows that housing companies are preparing a lot of projects. I believe that the fundamental decision to use the European Union's funds for the next budgetary period should encourage housing cooperatives to make projects. If we are not able to find more money this year, then next year these funds will be opened. These EUR 16 million are a resource for this so-called renovation loan. These are different things. In the past, we have also used the European Union's funds to create this loan resource. The aim has been for interest to be fixed for a longer period and to be just under market interest. A few weeks ago, the government decided to give public funds to cover the need for this year and perhaps for the next year. It is actually also useful to the State, given the borrowing rate between the State and KredEx and the interest rate on the loan granted through the banks from there, I think that all the winners are here. As I have already said, whether to continue with the loan resources is a matter of its own. I'm not gonna give you a final answer here today. In view of the current situation on the credit market, the borrowing rate offered by the banks for these products is relatively competitive. That's not an obstacle. If the building management company wants to start a reasonable renovation plan, interest does not prevent it. Rather, it is problematic to fix long-term interest rates more firmly. The housing associations have referred to this, and I understand that concern. This makes both cooperatives and other borrowers cautious.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U22	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U23	Minister, thank you very much. In the parliamentary elections two years ago, the topic of reducing home expenses was one of the main electoral promises of your home party. Now that it's been two years and a few months, it's clear that you haven't been able to fulfill this election promise. I don't even know if two years ago you were planning to make that promise happen. A new campaign is already underway, the local election campaign. Do you think it would have been right to apologize for the campaign two years ago before the start of the new campaign? After all, you clearly lied to your constituents about bringing home expenses down.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U24	I'm having a hard time commenting on your chatter. I think we're having a constructive discussion here right now. Most of your groupmates have understood what the Fatherland and Res Publica Union slogan 'Home expenses are down! ' planned. I'm not gonna go over this again. I think we have fulfilled this promise nicely and intend to continue to do so. As regards the implementation of the programme for the renovation of apartment buildings, this is a fundamental task. I find it totally inappropriate to mock or mock it here. In my opinion, this great public task is to stop heating and wasting air in Soviet houses. This was actually the main election promise of the IRL, and we'll do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U25	Good fellows! Dear Minister, I'm very much asking that we maintain our courtesy in our language! Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U26	Minister, thank you very much. The Ministry you run is also the bearer of housing policy or strategy. When the first panel houses were built, the idea was that they should not last for more than 50 years. A number of studies have now been carried out and found to be still ongoing. What is the current strategy? Do you also consider it necessary to heat and renovate the panels with good ventilation and insulation at the age of 60? Maybe it makes more sense to build new houses in their place. What are the latest strategic principles? How long could these panel buildings last, and until what time does it make sense to renovate them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U27	Well, the answer depends a lot on a particular house. But the general view of civil engineers is that the construction and technical condition of these houses are such that they may persist for several generations. At the same time, the location of one house or another is important. It also depends on whether it is worth renovating given the market value of the house as well as aesthetic or any other considerations. Perhaps it does not make sense to heat a particular house in a particular location. It's actually up to the owners. We can see in different parts of Estonia that there are also settlements where houses in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s are being pushed together and some modern houses are being replaced. But the people who have consulted the Ministry of Economic Affairs generally think that if we're not so rich that we can push all the houses together, it makes more sense to renovate. It makes more sense to make this cost by winning a lot less for heat energy, improving the indoor climate and thirdly, thereby certainly increasing the market value of the house.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U28	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U29	Dear Minister, A lot of people still have those buffets with a slogan to lower their home expenses. Among other things, a halving of the roomwarm fee was allowed. Today you're talking about thermal insulation of apartment buildings instead. I ask you, do you not think that paying super-big loan payments is a home cost? You recommend replacing high heating costs with large loan payments.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U30	No, it's not like that. But I will also answer what you have said in the introduction to your question. I believe that if it is possible to achieve 50% by investing in our home with the support of the state or, as I said in my report, on average 40% lower heating costs, this is real savings. This is real savings! Not to mention that the market value of the building will be increased and, if a complete renovation is carried out, the internal climate that benefits citizens' health will also be improved. There are many positive aspects. As regards whether the loan payments are either so or similar, I will say once again that housing associations have very different solutions, depending on how much money they have raised for their depreciation fund or other jobs. It may not be the case that the avoided heat cost will not affect the owner's wallet until the loan has been repaid. I think it's worth considering what the best option could be. And even if the stories are as sad as you described, what do you propose? That a person would simply continue this wasteful way of life? We have to somehow help people clean up their homes. Come up with something constructive, it's not just a matter of moaning!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U31	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U32	Minister, I would also recommend that you stay within the framework. The question is that you, as a minister and your party, have promised to lower home expenses, but you have failed to do so. There's no point in wasting time here and going into very detailed details about how to renovate houses. I have been running a housing company for decades, and I can say that I do not know very much about savings of 60%. Do not forget that if insulation helps to reduce heating costs, the effect will be lost as fuel prices continue to rise, plus the cost of bank loans. All in all, families won't win anything. Life is still the same. Why has this happened? How can you claim that you have fulfilled your election promise?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U33	I really hope you're no longer the chairman of this condo company. Once again, housing associations have carried out 500 projects with different renovation volumes, with an average heat cost savings of 40%. It's saving! If it's not, what is it? I repeat, if you are specifically interested in our party's electoral programme, take it out again and read it literally, you will understand whether it has been fulfilled or not. I don't see any reason to apologize. What we have promised, we have done. You could still be a proper politician, not just plain propaganda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U34	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U35	Minister, thank you very much. Estonian electricity consumers account for a large part of the renewable energy fee. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of AS Elering has officially confirmed that the law does not provide for the payment of subsidies to the electricity producers for their own use, but the management of this state company has done so in an insensitive manner. Why do Elering's mistakes have to be paid by poor Estonian electricity consumers? How long will you let this waste of money go on?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U36	It's a completely different subject. What you said about covering own resources, in my opinion, is simply not true. As far as the renewable energy fee is concerned, I do not want to get spiteful and to recall who was the Minister for the Economy who introduced this system of charges for renewable energy that kidnaps the consumer. And now we are in a situation where we are trying to adopt a new regulation and make it so that consumer interests are also taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U37	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U38	Minister, thank you very much. The insulation of buildings certainly gives effect, but I think the fastest and most effective measure would be the transfer of boiler houses to chips. One example is Võrumaa, where the heat price fell by 50% in a settlement from oil fuel to wood chips. But there are still countless central settlements in Estonia that are heated with gas or oil. But my question is about Elering. Is it normal that if home expenses are so high, Elering's profits are huge? Last year's profit at 190 million euros was 34 million euros, as far as I know, the profit for the first quarter of this year is already 20 million euros. Does one monopoly company really have to make such a big profit?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U39	I fully agree with the introduction to your question. I hope we can discuss this further sometime. I have already answered one of your questions: both private companies and local authorities are in many places, but especially in smaller rural towns and other hot zones, the switch to biofuels has made good progress. In fact, this is the effect of the law on the restraint of monopolies and, in my opinion, this effect is continuing because it is an obligation to make a competition. I admit that there are probably areas in Estonia where consumption is so low that additional investment support from the state is needed. But I would point out that these companies, all this editing, are the responsibility of the municipalities. With regard to Elering's profits, on 25 March Kalev Kallo presented me with an inquiry into the core network and its charges. There were adequate answers, it would be a request to simply read them in the verbatim. We must bear in mind that, in the case of such a monopoly, the productivity of assets is very important. And in order for our energy security and the best price to be guaranteed in the long term, we need to invest in energy interconnections. We need to ensure that our electrical system ensures that the emergency power is provided for every moment so that electricity never breaks down. These obligations will force investment in the core network. And they're big investments, bigger than the annual cash flow. The volume of investments in the current year is considered to be three or four times larger than the cash flow in. This fact may show what kind of challenge our electricity system operator has faced and what we have failed to do in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U40	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U41	Good minister! Five minutes ago, you mentioned a wasteful way of life for homeowners. Indeed, a large part of the income is wasted on enlightening and heating their lives. But isn't the state encouraging this 'waste' by raising prices? And little of that, he benefits from it by raising excise duty and taxing home expenses on VAT. KredEx's renovation allowance is also basically a kerb-rung grant beg to pay income tax on it, and KredEx has a withholding obligation to do so. Is there no way that the government is going to solve this KredEx problem, so that it is not so that KredEx's support, which is granted with one hand, is not cut by the other hand by taking the income tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U42	If you are referring to small housing benefits, the issue of income tax was solved when this programme was launched.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U43	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U44	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. It's nothing new when I'm talking about home expenses, heat, water, electricity, prices. I understand that life does not stand still and these prices can change, for example, 5%, 10%, 15%. But if the price goes up by 60%, even 60% plus 20% more VAT, then the question is whether the Competition Authority is even necessary in our country. By the way, you know the price that Kohtla-Järve Heat has offered. The Viru Chemistry Group offered people 60% higher prices, and you yourself said at the meeting that I read about this journalism that such an increase in prices is not possible. But it is, and people pay. My question is: how do you comment on such sudden price increases?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U45	I think that in the event of such price increases, the legislator should specify the rules of conduct. You gave us an example of Kohtla-Järve. In my opinion, this was an extremely exceptional case where a large urban area was transferred to an absolutely new source of heating. I am convinced that you know this situation to detail. The representative of Narva, Mr Stalnukhin, has left, but let us assume that for some reason Narva's power plants are no longer operational, there is no more cheap heat left in power generation. Much of the same was the case in Kohtla-Järve. The production of heat that did not meet the environmental requirements was simply stopped. In fact, I agree that the Competition Authority should have prepared this new situation in time so that such a sharp price increase would not have resulted for the consumer. The explanation given by the Competition Authority is that they must comply with the law in force and that the law in force lays down such rules. I think that the law should be improved a little in case there are still cases in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U46	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U47	Minister, thank you very much. You said you had to rely on the law in force. And earlier, in answering one question, you suggested you count the IRL's "Home expenses" down! ' promises. But the IRL has promised that by means of the Monopoly Control Act, you will reduce the heating and water costs of homeowners by up to half. In fact, the same law of monopolies led to a significant increase in the price of water in smaller places in Estonia. As for the warm price, you say you've done nothing. However, you have done something: 500 housing associations have received support. According to the Estonian Association of Apartment Cooperatives, there are 9000 apartment associations operating in Estonia. Thus, around one in 20 housing associations has been supported by insulation. When could every Estonian housing association have received your promised support?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U48	The aim of the program to renovate apartment buildings cannot be to have the entire Estonian residential fund in one night to the extent that heating is not wasted. Is it possible, in your imagination, to do this in one day? I've already told you it's going to be a country and a housing company, but it'd be nice if the local governments and other businessmen were working together. Today, we basically confirm that we intend to continue to support housing associations with investment grants amounting to EUR 100 million. And if housing associations come along with this, after all, it is their property, I believe that we will achieve a situation where, thanks to the implementation of this money, about 20% of the Estonian housing fund is at a good level, both in terms of heating costs and in terms of indoor climate. I think this is actually a pretty big step, but we have to go further. It takes time to recreate apartment buildings, and thus reduce large heat bills. It'll take 10, 15, maybe 20 years. One question is how to help housing associations to complete their projects. You're showing everything in a kind of malicious light, and that sometimes makes people feel powerless. You seem to justify the fact that a person who owns his own apartment doesn't think about how to fix an apartment building like this so that he can pay less for the heat and raise the market value of the house. In my opinion, it is everyone's duty to contribute a little so that people can overcome these barriers. Of course, social problems also prevent renovation. But I do know the condo associations where they've been taken care of together. If there are families in the house who are unable to assume the obligation that most families are willing to take, there is still a way to get over it. There has also been talk about boiler houses today. Your groupmate, Mr Tamm, a very informed person and a very practical person, after all, said that if many boiler houses were transferred to local fuel, the savings would be up to 60%. And if you're imagining stretching me so that you can move the boiler houses to another fuel in one day, that's not possible. I think it is a 50-year-long, perhaps longer programme, where the state can and can help the municipalities. In this way, these costs will eventually become more reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U49	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U50	Mr. Minister! According to the Estonian Heat Pump Association, about 75000 earth and air heat pumps work in Estonia. These are well known to be quite effective tools for heating private homes and they use renewable energy. Since it is still the use of renewable energy, what do you think might be the idea of creating some kind of incentive for heat pump users, whether or not because the heat pump is generating electricity, to sell electricity to them at a more favourable price? There could be a VAT concession or an excise tax credit, whatever.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U51	I've been talking to people in the heat pump union, and the statistical number you've mentioned can be more or less true. As you said, this is a form of heating that has no market failure whatsoever. And this way of heating may be affordable for people. In general, if you have noticed, our proposed programmes are still intended for private owners who are in a situation where, due to market failures or other obstacles, they are not themselves economically motivated to initiate changes. That's the answer to those heat pumps. But the subject is certainly important and we will take it into account in the Ministry of Economic Affairs next year and beyond by working on the programme for renovation of apartment buildings. I am thinking of whether we need to improve the requirements for heating systems in larger apartment buildings in detail, also in view of the experience with the use of heat pumps.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U52	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U53	Dear Minister, Lowering home expenses is certainly a very grateful job. Unfortunately, your opponents have not always understood you and are waiting for results faster. You say that this is a very big step, and they must be continued, which is very right. I am asking what are the next steps or measures to reduce home expenses and achieve a better understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U54	If I look at the activity that has developed among housing associations, it can be concluded that the process has long since reached a more practical phase of common sense characteristic of Estonians. No one will take any more seriously the destructive criticism of whether or not home expenses have been reduced. We are trying to fix our housing fund in a situation where it is almost 100% owned by private owners, the people of Estonia. It's not a 100% government-managed system, like the opponents seem to think. And in this situation, it is actually quite a complex task for the whole of society. But seeing how active the housing companies have been for the last three years, I'm sure it's moving forward. It is now necessary to guarantee sound behaviour by the state so that the continuation of the programme can be assured. The government has a guarantee in this regard and I believe that it is possible to proceed reasonably.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U55	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U56	Dear Minister, I have always been very interesting to listen to your answers, especially it is interesting to read them afterwards. I thank you for such interesting answers. The day before, when I asked the question, it was unanswered, but you answered the supplementary question so nicely. In particular, when I asked if I could ask for an answer, you replied that it was always a great honour for you to answer my questions. Thank you. But I'm gonna keep going. Today I enjoyed the way you were asked about the price of water, but you said that an example was just given of how to switch to local wood chips. But, sorry, the price of water and wood chips are a little different things. I benevolently ask: do I understand correctly that the home cost reduction programme could be a full solution in the next half century?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U57	I understand what you mean, but I do suggest that we make some concrete proposals. As far as renewable energy is concerned, solar cells or collectors and small windmills, all these technical equipment are available in both apartment buildings and small houses. It would be ideal if these equipment were at such a price that it would be easy for them to compete on the market as on the heat pumps that your colleague Mr Laas was talking about earlier. That would be the perfect situation. But to support them separately, without taking into account the overall energy efficiency, I don't think it's practical from a national perspective. If it is possible to support such solutions in the course of one or another specific renovation, this can only be welcomed. Certainly a very nice opportunity, which simply needs to be applied better technically, is when someone who has acquired such an energy device can power the grid. However, joining the network should be easier, less bureaucratic, more convenient. However, this often requires that all of us improve the network so that the network is ready to receive them. Once again, in a sense, we need to look for a balance point. Here we have been asked today about network investment, which also explains why network charges are exactly like this and not lower. But I think that solar cells and small winds are very necessary, but we may not be able to obtain a reasonable, balanced solution, given the narrow commercial interests of their owners alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U58	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U59	Good minister! There has been a great deal of talk here today about the need for renovation. I renovated my house in 2008. I placed a heat pump with a heat exchanger in the ventilation system. My electricity bill grew by 40%, as I chose their fixed-price package on the proposal of Eesti Energia. In addition, my husband joined the IRL because he felt that the IRL was the most appropriate party in Estonia. Now I'm asking my husband when he's gonna pay off my 40% increase in power bill, or he's gonna compensate me for my increased home expenses. What do you recommend to people like me? We've all been able to do, we've done, but the bills are still growing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U60	Discuss it at home with your husband.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U61	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U62	Mr. Minister! You understand clearly that you know the difference between two types of electricity or energy consumers. Some are those who live in large apartment buildings and are still offered and offered various measures in the future. That is, of course, correct, no argument. And then there are the other so-called "movermen" squatting between the villages, who, as you say, have no importance in the public economy. Doesn't it seem to you that it tends to act as discrimination, or can't I say what it is? I have a heat pump, by the way. How can you still treat people like us?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U63	You draw arbitrary conclusions from what I'm saying. Renovation of apartment buildings is the biggest source of energy savings if we add everything together. That's one. Secondly, I have never said that we should not think about what a sensible policy could be, which means small houseowners living in a distributed area. In 2011, so not long ago, we planned a pilot programme of EUR 4 million on the initiative of the speaker here and with the support of everyone else. Now we've implemented it and we'll count the chicks, see the results. Some questions have arisen, but it can be corrected. I think it is right not to take the small house issue off the agenda. When you listened to my answer, I said that we would like to move on with a slightly modified programme in the area of small houses if the government managed to make a higher return on the sale of CO2 quotas. This depends on Europe's emissions trading and its market price. But we have planned such a measure to offer such opportunities with a better focus.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U64	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U65	Good minister! I recall the Independence Day a few months ago and the speech by President Toomas Hendrik Ilves. He stressed that the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu should deal more with important decisions of the state. He pointed out, for example, that the exemption from the tax on homeland and the law on the control of monopolies are such things that do not bring the country closer to important decisions. Why, as a minister, do you do such unimportant things?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U66	I'd put a big mirror in my place. You have passed these laws! However, I understood the context of the President's speech differently. The President also considers it very important that the monopolies are contained. Indeed, as I have assured you, we are analysing the impact of this law on our warm economy. It concerns every person, and I think it has a very strategic significance. Not to mention the analysis that we have talked about in a long and broad way today and which concerns our entire housing fund, where and how our people live, how much it is worth for the state to intervene, how to help consumers set up some plans, which the President also called for.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U67	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Heimar Leng, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U68	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, answering questions in this Riigikogu hall has become quite fun. Is it worth wasting the money of the state and the taxpayer that the minister comes before us and says that this hall is not the one who understands him? I had the impression that there were people in this Chamber with a little bit of sense who didn't understand the Minister's speech and didn't understand what he was trying to say to us. Prime Minister Ansip set an example. He started to make fun of his speeches first. Now other ministers have learned this art as well. Some ministers, however, use the method of coming here and speaking very briefly, answers each question with one sentence. Mr. Ducks, on the contrary, is going into the details, explaining to us how the boiler is screwed on. After that, you'll be dizzy, and you won't really understand what the Minister was saying. We've been in this hall for an hour and a half now, but what Mr. Ducks has told us, I don't know how to sum it up. I can't do it because nothing has been said. However, it is clear that this is not the case. It is clear that the IRL election promise has not been fulfilled. We can talk about renovation here, we can talk about insulation. But statistics say that our home expenses were on average 10.4% higher in February than at the same time last year. That, Minister, is clear statistics and there is no point in arguing against it. The lives of the Estonian people have become more expensive. I am not surprised that there have been so many buttons and news in the media lately that the resignation of the Minister for Economic Affairs is being demanded. I, ladies and gentlemen, have the IRL Treaty. My sister just gave it to me, she had it on the table. Mr. IRL Minister, this is the performance of your contract. Has it been completed? I remember the election and IRL's promise that they'll bring home expenses down. This was followed by a scandal because home expenses could not be brought down. I remember how the IRL discussed this in the media, too, about how to get out of the situation. That's when it was invented that we were going to renovate houses, so we can justify our crooked election promise. Now we've been talking here for an hour and a half about renovating houses, which is a total fog. And that's what the Minister is telling us! It's not a downsizing of home expenses. I understand that houses need to be renovated. If a cooperative currently takes out a loan and starts renovating its house, it can actually reduce heating costs for the house by heating it. But let us not forget that the population does not directly benefit from this because, for 20 years, the cooperative has a loan that is collectively repaid. Other house repairs costs, which are very high, are also to be paid for. And as soon as the cost of housing begins to decrease, the warm-up company will find a way to increase. He wants to get his profit and keep it the way it used to be. It was said that heat prices have risen by 60% in some places. How can we talk about saving home expenses? The Minister didn't say a word about the price of electricity, but it's increased by at least 25%. Eesti Energia, which our minister manages, did when we moved to an open market system, a very interesting internet campaign and lured most people to remain a customer of Eesti Energia, while imposing a permanent price package on people. That is how we have strived to save home expenses. I would say that the IRL has lied to the Estonian people. I think the voters will draw their own conclusions from this in the next election. The Minister, however, has no point in coming before us to talk about something that is black in an attempt to make it white. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U69	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U70	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me remind you of the time of 25 years ago when we formed the headquarters of the Popular Front across Estonia, and life was full and boiled. We fought and achieved this so desired independence. But what's happened now? Our government of our own country absolutely does not listen to the will of the people; its wishes are not taken into account in everything is zero. It has already been said here many times today that, before the elections, home expenses were allowed to be reduced. So the people were deceived and the mandate of the Riigikogu was deceived into Toompea, the government, after which all these expenses were allowed to be raised. I'm still going to read out this famous sentence one more time, and it's in front of me: 'Let's lower home expenses, including heating, water and electricity, by half. " That was the slogan that was written right in this hall. Now the Minister of Economic Affairs is telling us about the insulation of apartment buildings. Sounds nice, but I would like to stress that in order to receive a renovation grant of 35% of the cost of the project, the house must be insulated so that it can reduce the heating consumption by 50%. How can this be achieved? To do this, the building needs to be completely rebuilt from roof to basement, to heat the walls, foundations, stairwells. There is also a need to install a heat recovery ventilation system to capture warm air. Essentially, a new house needs to be built, and what will it all cost?! We can only imagine how much a bank loan has to be taken. Perhaps in Tallinn, where there are several hundred apartments in super-large houses and where the city, as we know, has supported this can be achieved. But we also have a lot of small villages and other settlements where there are 10/15 apartments in the houses where the men who live are currently working in Finland. Only children with mothers and grandmothers and granddads remain there. Tell me where these people are taking money to repay such a large loan! That's not possible, and the opposite is a total mist! I've told you before that a suggestion to heat homes like this equals a call that if it's very cold, buy yourself a super expensive coat. It's an IRL offer right now. Let's keep looking at these home expenses. Prior to the elections, the IRL promised to exempt homeowners from land tax. In fact, they just sold air and empty promises. If the area under the apartment building is divided into residential and commercial land, why do residents also have to pay the land tax for the company on the first floor? The owners have gone to court with this problem. We also remember that Tallinn freed 1500 m2 from land tax for each citizen in the case of co-ownership, but the government's association has redrafted the law and this land tax exemption for 1500 m2 is granted to all co-owners. Why did people's situation get worse if Tallinn really wanted to grant benefits to its residents? Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U71	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U72	It's a philosophical question. You always ask through. You've got a lot on your mind, starting somewhere... Lenk, for example, recalled the time when he was entrusted with the office of head of the housing association, and then he talked about water, electricity, medicine. I'm gonna have to grab something and answer it. Now you are asking a philosophical question as to whether the topic of home expenses will lose its topicality in the next half century. I daresay not. That's for two reasons. Firstly, energy prices and our choices. I'm not saying that these prices behave like this, they can behave in any way. We remember the political crises in the 1970s and 1980s, and you remember them in particular. However, we have the trend in energy prices as it is. The second issue is the development of technologies. All of this could bring us all sorts of surprises. But one thing is certain: we are no longer living in this phase of time and in an economic situation where we can afford an obvious waste of every single person, every single family. You go to the store, there's all kinds of building materials, there's qualified builders, engineers everywhere. Doing something with your hands, not just wasting it is, in my opinion, a completely unique challenge for us. It makes no sense for us to compare ourselves with the developed Western countries. All in all, I dare to predict that this is the philosophical answer to your question, that in half a century, our descendants will be facing exactly the same problems in the chest, but perhaps from a different perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U73	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U74	Dear Minister, Home expenses are, of course, fixed costs, and without these costs, we will not be able to cope in this climate zone. You have repeatedly said that we must abandon a wasteful way of life, that all these measures must be implemented, that air must not be heated. However, a completely different solution can be used to keep home expenses low. You are the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications and have completed the state budget strategy for 2014‐2017. The new programming period of the European Union, which calls for economic growth, will also begin. This means that Estonia could achieve a level where wages and pensions would be higher, then home expenses would seem to be lower. What do you think should happen in Estonia, as a minister, so that the salary is so high that it is not difficult to pay home expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U75	No matter how high wages justify unnecessary heating of ambient air. If you agree, we can start with the key question: what can we do to make the people of Estonia more prosperous? At first, we may have to agree that there will be nothing left but work to do. The question is what kind of work to do and how. How can we work for which more money can be asked for by the whole nation as a whole and by each individual? If we are all able to answer this question together and each of us individually in such a way that we are going to act in this direction the next morning, our economy will not go up the way we expect for the next four years, but at a slightly greater angle. It's actually in our own hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U76	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U77	Dear Minister, I'd like to clarify your position with one particular example. I'll bring up the heat theme and Narva. As you know, Narva's heat will be supplied through the district heating system from the power plant. It was considered that consumption savings will be achieved by borrowing through KredEx, as well as through other projects that provided for the installation of automated systems. In short, it was considered that yes, it could be dealt with. Credit was taken and action began. On the other hand, power plants isolated hot pipes by units, all losses were very well eliminated, but ultimately the price increased. Why? Because the volume got smaller, but it takes a lot of money. How does the Ministry comment on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U78	If you're talking about a particular Narva project or a so-called Narva case, maybe it should be analysed specifically. My understanding of things is as follows. If you have one house built in such a way that it is not very thought of saving energy and having good ventilation. If you can fix this house, improve the indoor climate and reduce heat consumption twice, you should probably pay twice as much for the heat. That's it! I don't know what's specific in Narva, you haven't informed me. Perhaps it should be examined why the general Estonian laws do not apply in Narva. But on the whole, if I take less, I'll pay less.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U79	Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U80	Of course, insulation of homes is essential for reducing home costs and from my own experience, I can assure you that it will provide more efficiency. At the same time, we should create a situation where households who wish to produce energy themselves and use it as efficiently and economically as possible. In particular, this concerns the development of small energy capacities, where a great deal of private money could be involved. Very many companies are ready to invest in it. However, if we compare ourselves with the rest of Europe, we will see that, unfortunately, the country has not developed this environment very well. Is the government prepared to take any steps to create this environment? Would it be possible to support, for example, the creation of renewable energy capacities used in private households?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U81	We can say that all of this has been the policy of our government. The price of electricity has been raised to the ceiling, and we also know how national taxes have been raised. The Minister for Economic Affairs asked what we were proposing. Of course, we would reduce the national tax first. Electricity excise duty is five times higher than the European minimum. That's where the VAT comes from, the tax ends! just network charges, etc. We don't know exactly what it's all about. We know Elering made a record profit last year. According to the company manager Taavi Veskimäe, the results have been best over the years. But at whose expense has this been achieved? On the people's account! We do not know where this money goes, whether it goes to the Jordan mines or to repair the lines, and how much it goes there. We are told that Estlink 2 is built, that it creates competition and the price goes down, but it is actually just an Estonian Energia business project to sell electricity to Finland. The Jõgeva Painküla project has been buried at 43 million euros, which is completely pointless, the government acknowledges it itself. Eesti Energia has been made into a gold pit of the government, from which 100 million dividends will be withdrawn with tax money this year. Think about it. There is no way prices can be lower! There will be expensive gas surveys for network charges, because Elering will also take on the gas economy. So life just keeps getting more expensive and more expensive. Today we heard that the train ticket would cost four times as much. All of this is under the authority of one minister. We really are full of all this cutting, lying and fooling people. I believe that people will remember this in the fall and vote accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U82	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U83	Mr. President! Honourable ministers! I came to the remote to explain the situation in Narva, which was briefly described in my question. Perhaps the minister will take the floor and be able to answer. Once again, the goal was to make one and the other in Narva's heat system to start paying less money. It was well argued, and people went along with it. The projects provided funding from KredEx, the housing associations took out loans and did insulation work for them, and automated systems were also installed to ensure that the use of heat energy in each house is well regulated. On the other hand, work was carried out to re-insect all the pipes through which heat comes into town from our power plants. As is known, the so-called Baltic power plant is a monopoly on the Narva market. I also explain that this heat energy is not a direct product of the power plant, but an indirect product of electricity generation. After all these work had been completed, the consumption was clearly reduced. To the people's surprise, however, prices increased this winter. Why am I talking about this? If it were a company in its own right, I might not have raised this question, but the power plants and their related entities are still state-owned companies, and so or so their activities are governed by the State. I am thinking of Eesti Energia, the power plants, the heat transit company, which owns the heat network. The point is that people hoped that they would be able to pay less for heat due to the costs they had made, but almost as soon as these works were completed, prices rose. Hence my question: how to proceed in the future? Can you really tell people that you see how good this investment is, and they agree with it when everything is done, and then come up with another argument that the volume went down and quite high costs are related to the construction and maintenance of the network, so there is a need to increase the price? That is a specific question. What's the minister's position? Such a very specific regional but good example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U84	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U85	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't have come to this remote if today's discussion hadn't become so emotional. There was quite a lot of right views coming out of the Minister's mouth. Indeed, renovation and support for renovation have been an evolving trend in Estonia. We have to admit that without it, we really couldn't manage our Soviet legacy. But I came here first and foremost because I started thinking about what I was doing in my place. When a man told me that you could be sure, I thought that if such a man said that you could be sure, I would be sure to live in Estonia. Then another man came and was a little closer to me and said he was done. When he said it was enough, I thought maybe it would. When a third man came in and said that now I'm okay at home, everything's under control, I believed him too. I believed him most, because we discussed it very thoroughly at home and found that it is important for the people of Estonia to have everything under control at home then everything is fine. My home is my castle. It was such a riddle now. The practical content of the matter is as follows: What has happened in Estonia? We're actually doing the right thing. Here in the Riigikogu today, talk tended to go into quite emotional or even trouble, both sides being right. With my question, I tried, above all, to touch on the problem of those people who have already done everything that the state itself is helping people not to decide on their own, in their own homes. They have built or renovated their home in accordance with all the progressive standards that currently exist. I admit that my Estonian Energy has deceived me twice in my life. In the 1990s, he assured me that the best type of heating is electric heating, because it's our home country, it's under control all the time, our country is working on it, and you can be sure that if you put it, you're the winner. At that time, I was building a large historic building, the conversion of which would be very expensive at the moment, which is why I would rather be forced to abandon this building. The next time I was smarter, I thought I wouldn't believe anyone. I calmly analyzed the projects as to which option is best. The best option at that point seemed to be an geothermal pump and even ventilation with a heat exchanger doesn't get lost. And again, my Eesti Energia came to my aid. Now, in the confusion when the free market came, I couldn't decide what I had to do. Maybe I'm a fool, it can't be ruled out, because the Riigikogu is a cross-section of society. Eesti Energia herself called me and said that you have been our long-time customer, you have several objects here, I offer you a fixed-price electricity package, it is most useful for you. And I believe the fool again! Which meant that my electricity bill grew by 40%. In this same discussion, we have heard slogans today to 'You can be sure!' 'and 'Enough! ' ' and 'Home expenses under control! ' ' I'm on the remote because I'm trying to be a normal person. The status of a member of the Riigikogu is temporary. If I don't like what I see here anymore, I have a chance to give it up. The Minister's office is just as temporary. If you don't like being told anything anymore, you'll be able to give up, but as individuals, as people, we'll continue to exist. It's important. We must never forget that we are primarily people and only then ministers and members of the Riigikogu and whoever. This ordinary Estonian person, he thinks in his home just as I think out loud here: I have done everything, but still my situation has gotten a lot worse. I'm taking extra time, I'm getting very emotional right now. Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U86	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U87	That's what I'm actually calling everyone up for. If we were wrong about the slogans, and the other one was sure, etc., then let us accept it honestly and try to find solutions together! Let us not rob our people by stripping them with heat and electricity at the moment they get paid. Open a discussion in society and think about how to alleviate the shock caused by the free market of electricity so that people can get a little more money on payday. We give them the opportunity to participate in the domestic economy! Involvement in the domestic economy creates such a centrifugal circulation, so that the economy begins to recover quietly but firmly. New jobs will be created because we have a service-based economy with several hundred thousand people involved. The value added in Estonia is not very much created; even less added value is created in relation to exports. But yes, it would enable our domestic economy to recover. Unfortunately, it's kind of a taboo thing. We have completely forgotten that, unfortunately, the inevitable daily expenses of our good and good people in Estonia are constantly increasing. I don't know who it was who made up the slogan to get the home expenses under control. At the same time, we don't have much to pick on, because we all have something wrong. But you see, keeping this under control is not possible in today's world, because the prices of energy carriers are rising anyway, whether we like it or not. For this reason, our discussion should be the same for all of us, after all, here we are all servants of the people, in an effort to provide people with real relief, whether this or of a temporary nature. If we can contribute to this relief, then, believe me, in the long run, it would give us much more than we can imagine today. What's the worst thing right now? But the fact that when I get up in the morning, I'm sad. I'm sad because I've done everything I can to be progressive, but I still feel like a pathetic loser, because I can see that I tried, but it hasn't helped anything. Now that's what we need to think about more broadly. We can pick on each other here, we can demand the Minister's resignation, that is, to release him from his problems. After that, he lives on like a perfectly normal man as a wise man, he's fine. We can all get out of here together, sweethearts, and for most of us, nothing would happen. But it can happen to people because they live their lives. They won't be able to make shifts like we do. Therefore, let us be in dialogue and try to find solutions, because really all these costs are increasing too quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U88	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Lauri Laas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U89	After my colleague Riisalut, it feels like a tsunami has crossed this remote. I'll take it easy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to come here again and again before the Riigikogu to talk about the rise in electricity prices and its impact on home expenses. When the Centre Party held night battles here last autumn to mitigate the rise in electricity prices, the coalition attacked us by claiming that the measures we proposed would not help anyone and that the reduction of renewable energy charges by them would be much more effective. What has become of the reduction in renewable energy charges is something we all know: nothing. However, the politicians of the Central Party are not the only ones who say that the huge domestic costs are harming the people and the economy of Estonia. This was emphasised by Eesti Pank before the transition to the open market, which has been said by several academics, and recently, Prime Minister Ansip stated here in the Riigikogu, saying that he understands people whose patience for home expenses is breaking. By quoting a character from a literary classic, you might say that it was good enough already. At last, the Prime Minister understands that people's patience is breaking up. Our ministers aren't stupid people, they're smart men, but they're just a little too long left with the power of state. Why do I say that? But because the only suggestion in this whole understanding has been to save up to now. I'm sorry, but there's more good advice on how to deal with high home expenses, people haven't been given. I fully agree that ministers can talk about austerity measures on their wages, and I can do so too, because I am earning a large salary in Estonian terms and there is something to spend on renovation and in other ways in the interests of austerity. However, in this way half of households cannot be saved, as many as Eesti Pank says, there are no savings. How should they be able to improve their living in the interests of saving if the overall price increase is half the cost of home and food a third? Yeah, I know an old lady who's even pulled her refrigerator out of the wall so it doesn't waste electricity. He wakes up when it's light and goes to sleep when the sunlight stops lighting the room. Is this the life we want for thousands of Estonian families? It's not like it's a luxury commodity. Warm room, water and electricity are absolutely essential. Ladies and gentlemen, If we're going to advise people not to consume utilities from this House, then we should disperse with this Parliament. Estonia wants to be a pioneer and a success; Estonia wants to be a European tiger. The attitude of the hand and the favor of going back to the 19th century is not the behaviour of a tiger. The real situation is that those who suffer from price increases are not incompetent characters who are constantly in trouble, but ordinary people who are in difficulty because of growing home expenses. When utility bills start swallowing a quarter and more, it's a clear sign that the proportions are not in place and it's out of balance. In our climate, it is not possible to give up heating and electricity consumption, and this foolproof situation will certainly ensure proper tax revenue for the government. Somewhere, however, there must be a limit and end the abuse of the public's modesty. This morning I found myself thinking that maybe Juhan Parts was a victim of reform party politics. We understand here that austerity policies must come at the expense of something or someone. When the municipalities and cities were stripped and the funeral allowance was cancelled, something else had to be done. The right-wing tax-cutting policy has had such a severe impact on the state's tax revenues that money has to be placed in the budget by secretly taking money out of a person's wallet by playing with indirect taxes. Why is Juhan Parts the victim of this austerity policy? But precisely because he curates is the guarantor of Eesti Energia, the guarantor of the state security policy, which is supposed to be the people's. However, the Minister of Finance has merely directed the company to make a profit and, like Mantra, repeats that this price increase will go away. The Minister of Economic Affairs is also the victim of Eesti Energia, who is quite full of feelings of irreplaceability and arrogance. I would remind you that those members of the Riigikogu who have dared to criticise the activities of Eesti Energia will immediately label the company as ignorant liars. Pensioners who receive an electricity bill of EUR 500 due to cable failure will be offered a back-up option to resolve the situation. The unpaid 2-cent bill threatens to go to court to demand it from the consumer. There is nothing to be done, the minister must be held accountable, and this anti-human attitude of the state company is equated with his attitude. Finally, I repeat: the government has the power to limit home expenses. If you've promised, do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U90	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U91	Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the Minister on one thing today. We both understand that if boiler houses are transferred from oil and gas to chips, it can reduce heat bills by up to 60%. The re-independant Estonian country has been in Estonia for 20 years, but until today it has not been possible to start using this simple solution. At the same time, it is clear that if a person has 50% more money, he could do something smart, for example, use it for health purposes, buy something good for the family, or allow children something that they cannot now have. I'm sure the Minister knows that this 50% increase, which is currently paid too much, will leave Estonia when it comes to gas-fired boiler houses. If the country has not developed a programme for transferring boiler houses to wood chips in a short period of time, it is evil. It would be possible to leave that money in the country. You could also win land producers who could sell wood chips. The benefits would therefore be multilateral, and I think that this would be one of the most basic activities that could quickly reduce home costs. This subject should be actively addressed. Perhaps now the Minister says that these boiler houses are largely privately owned and should be subject to market rules. Unfortunately, smaller boilers are not able to raise enough amounts of money in the heat product to make these investments. So, Minister, I hope that you will come up with an effective measure that will enable boiler houses to be transferred to chips in the near future. We could all win, both the whole country and consumers, who pay this high warm price. One thing I certainly disagree with Mr Minister is Elering's huge profits and the huge investments that will be made in such a short period of time. In the case of the electricity grid, the target is to reach the position that other countries have reached in 50 years and we have gone out of the way. Unfortunately, there are still many areas in Estonia. The main problem is that the standard of living of the Estonian people does not make it possible to pay off such large investments at the same time. If these investments were spread over a longer period of time, Elering would be able to make a lower profit and offer people a little more affordable electricity. These are two proposals for the Minister. I hope the Minister will take them into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U92	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The first question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U93	Let's move on to the next question. It was presented by members of the Riigikogu Marika Tuus-Laul, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman and Tarmo Tamm on 18 March 2013. The inquiry is about the problems of the development plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs and is answered by Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Marika Tuus-Lauli, to introduce the inquiry!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U94	Ladies and gentlemen, In March we learned that the Ministry of Social Affairs is planning to spend nearly a million euros to buy and adapt for Estonia the parental training programme developed by Australian scientists. We have asked the Minister for Social Affairs about this. The training programme is a family support strategy. We find that, at a time when there is so much poverty in Estonia, 63000 children are at risk of poverty and suffer from empty stomachs, if we cannot even allow high school students to get free school meals, such projects should still not be purchased with such a large amount of money. Instead, we could cooperate with Estonian scientists. We have a number of questions to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U95	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Social Affairs of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Taavi Rõivas, to answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll answer your questions. Question 1: "Do you think that the implementation of this development plan is a sensible step, and how will it contribute to improving the lives of children at risk of poverty? ' First of all, let me point out that we are not talking about the development plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs, as stated in the title of the inquiry, but we are talking about the development plan for children and families for the years 2012 Now, on to the subject. The argument that the Ministry of Social Affairs has a plan to buy something for a million euros is not true. We're talking about an evidence-based parenthood program. The lion's share of those sums, which are certainly below EUR 1 million, is not intended to be used for the purchase of the programme, because there is no separate licence fee, but it is intended for activities and training and its methodology to explain to parents and families. Indeed, in a rather long time, these activities are quite substantial and are also provided for. These funds come entirely or almost entirely from external financing, the Norwegian programme. Be that as it may, sharing this money equally between children so that each child receives his share, EUR 15 or a little less, is not possible even with the best will. However, studies show that the implementation of an evidence-based parenthood programme significantly reduces the risks to children, neglect of children, addiction problems and depression, and strengthens positive relationships between children and parents. The implementation of the programme, according to experts, will save taxpayers' money because children with low socio-economic status are at greater risk of having all kinds of problems. So, thanks to this programme, less money could be needed for social work, dealing with behavioural disorders, therapeutic interventions, treating depression, and also fighting crime. All these problems are, of course, costly for taxpayers' wallets. The reduced number of problems is positive in relation to what is happening on the labour market. People who do not have these problems are more likely to be active on the labour market and earn more tax money for the country, and are also expected to use less social and medical services. The second question: "Do you think it would be reasonable to buy out a programme worth EUR 1 million? " Once again, I stress that the claims that someone is planning to buy something for a million euros are simply not true. However, the development of evidence-based interventions is long-term, lasting at least 10 years. If Estonia were to develop a parenthood programme itself, it would essentially mean that we should start working again on what has already been done in many countries. I also stress that, in fact, no contribution has been made to one particular method, as has been pointed out in the press. Making this decision, which specific science-based method, which is common in the world, should be introduced in Estonia, is still ahead of us. I am absolutely sure that experts can be involved in this, just as they were involved in developing a development plan for children and families. As a side comment, if you had read the children's and families' development plan even on a diagonal basis, these questions would not have happened. Questions about problems that need to be resolved in Estonian society, including how similar problems have been solved in other countries, have been quite complexly answered there. I am absolutely certain that if you had read this development plan, there would be no such sometimes inaccurate and perhaps inappropriate questions. I highly suggest you read it, it's good material that gives you a lot of answers. Question 3: "What can I say to the 63,000 children who could be supported by the money they need to buy this programme? ' This question is a classic example of where a very nice question is asked in a single sentence, but several mistakes are made. The argument that emerges from the question that 63000 children live in poverty in Estonia is not accurate either by absolute or relative poverty statistics. Last time, over 60,000 children lived in poverty a decade ago. The statistics on child poverty in Estonia have improved considerably, which is 1.5 times lower than you have pointed out. It is also not correct to say that it is possible to take this Norwegian taxpayer's money, to divide between Estonian children and to say that we are not dealing with family policy, that we are simply sharing this money evenly, that everyone receives 15 euros of one-off income, even though this programme is intended for ten years. This is not possible either, because the Norwegian programmes have specific objectives. The fact that you claim that the money needed to buy this programme can be taken and distributed in this way is another very inaccuracies. The third inaccuracies, as I said, are that no programme will be purchased for a million euros, but, first of all, it is about smaller sums and, second, it is about introducing research-based parenting methodology in Estonia over the years and explaining it to parents. These sums will be spent on this, not on some program, as your question might have understood. But now I'm coming up with the beautiful part of the question of a lot of mistakes. What can you say to these children? As Minister for Social Affairs, I think it is right for taxpayers, in particular, to help those most in need, with limited resources. It is precisely all those children who are at risk of poverty who are already receiving additional child support from the summer of this year. This is a fundamental change that brings about a very important addition to our family benefit system, which has operated in the form of universal benefits for a very long time, which is child support based on needs. The fact that in a few years we can double the benefits for children living in poverty or at risk of poverty is, in my opinion, a big deal. So the priority is that it is precisely their families and children that must be dealt with. The fact that we increase the allowance for children most in need from year to year does not mean that we should completely neglect the question of the more methodical side of family policy (not to say that the more substantial side) which aims to reduce the risk of having children in need of intervention by child protection workers, reducing the risk that parents are unable to cope with their children. These are things that must also be dealt with. I am very pleased that experts have worked through these topics very thoroughly already in 2011 when drafting a development plan for children and families and that we can use Norwegian taxpayers' money, for example, in addition to Estonian taxpayers' money, to implement these methodologies. Question 4: "How much money has the Ministry spent and plans to spend on visits to Australia in the future? Do you plan to get to know the program in Australia yourself? " The Ministry has neither spent nor planned to spend funds on visits to Australia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U97	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U98	Thank you. Dear Minister, When you spoke about need-based child support, you failed to say that not even all children receiving income support will receive such needs-based child support. But what you said was that Estonia has chosen the southern European road, which means that fewer and fewer children are born. As you well know, our families no longer have their first children. Let's look at the plans of the Government of the Republic. The government's website says that there should be 1.71 children per woman in childbirth, but the total birth rate is constantly decreasing. This year it's less than 1.5, a few years ago it was 1.63. What are we going to do to get more children born and poor children to receive support?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U99	Thank you. In order for children living in a poor family to receive support, needs-based child support has been developed. It is true that there are about 200 families who have applied for income support during the year, possibly only in a few months or one month, but they have applied for it during the year and have qualified for income support even once during that period, but who do not really live in relative poverty and therefore do not have the right to supplementary child support under the current legislation. I tend to think that, if we think about this change in depth, we will realise that this legislation could be amended so that all recipients of income support can also receive needs-based child support. At the same time, it requires a slightly more thorough examination than the draft currently under way in the Committee on Social Affairs. Also, calculations (I have asked the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs to do them) must be made if we want to raise the limit on income support. I believe that the threshold should be raised from the beginning of next year in order to respond more effectively to the needs of families. There is a need for clarity as to how many people would be affected and what this would mean more widely. However, as a general principle, the necessity in the context of child benefits has been assessed in a much wider way; it is not just about recipients of income support. In most cases, the level of necessity is still higher, but it is true that in some cases there may be a situation where income support is scarcely qualified, but there is no need-based child benefit. I agree that this situation can be corrected. But what we are talking about is the southern European tea and how the total birth rate is decreasing is not how serious it is. Both the birth rate and the combined birth rate started to increase in 2004. There's no need to be a hiromant to understand what's behind this. The Parental Benefits Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2004, has contributed much to this. Before the parental benefit came into effect, Estonia was in deficit with 5,000 people. Now we have reached the point that in one year we had an increase of a few dozen people, much thanks to parental benefits, but there were certainly other factors that mattered here. The truth is that the last few years have been more modest than this peak. We have analysed this in the ministry, and we intend to analyse very thoroughly what these reasons are in the context of the Green Paper on family policy. But we are well aware that one of the problems relates to the services provided to families. As you know, many municipalities, especially Tallinn and the municipalities around Tallinn, are unable to meet the legal requirement to provide a kindergarten place or childcare facilities for every child. This is largely the task of the municipality, but we certainly want to help the municipalities fulfil this function. Funds are foreseen for both childcare and day-care facilities in the next budget period of the European Union. So the state, too, can certainly be a part of this, although not as the main responsibility, but as a supporter of local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U100	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U101	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Your many words, rich in mixed expressions, and a report mimicing the scientific performance, were so incomprehensible that the initial terms must first be specified. I wrote it down. What's a science-based parenting program, how does Mom and Dad have to apply it at home?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U102	Thank you. Explaining this topic from the Riigikogu's speaking board may take a little while, but let me give you an example. 40% of people consider it normal to punish children physically. The science-based approach sets out the reasons why this should not be done and offers alternatives. This is one example of many. But if you read the children's and families' development plan, which is available online and recorded in a perfectly smooth text, then, I am absolutely sure, this question will also receive a much more detailed and comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U103	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U104	Thank you. Good minister! The problem of child poverty is very acute in Estonia. 63000 children are living in poverty or at risk of poverty, a figure pointed out by Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder. We know how children living in poverty get help from the food bank, we have soup kitchens. Today, the newspaper has a very sad story about how children live in poverty. But the topic of this inquiry was brought to the public by Eesti Päevaleht. This article stated very precisely that EUR 967413 would be spent on this programme over a few years. Wouldn't it be better to work with Estonian scientists on raising and teaching children? Why do we have to buy these programs from abroad? They say we have a lot of theories about raising children. Why do we have to buy them somewhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U105	Thank you. I admire your ability to ask so much in a minute. I'm trying to be worthy of you and answer all your questions correctly. First of all, as far as child poverty is concerned, of course it is also a problem in Estonia, as in most countries, I would say that in all countries. As long as there is one child living in poverty, it is a problem for society, no matter how nice or rich it is. In Estonia, it is true that child poverty has decreased considerably, most recently from 19.5% to 17%. It also shows that, unlike many other countries, we have very positive labour market trends. When we look at children who live at risk of poverty, relative poverty or absolute poverty, we see that the proportion of children living in families where neither parent is working has been significantly reduced. This, in turn, is, of course, due to the rapid fall in unemployment, even in recent weeks. These statistics are not published on a weekly basis, but I can tell you that unemployment is reduced by 600-800 people every week in Estonia. This means that the economic livelihood of the 600-800 families will be improved every week. The most secure cure for child poverty and social poverty is when people have jobs. There are certainly positive developments in Estonia here. In addition, we have legalised needs-based child support, specifically for children living in families where the risk of poverty is greatest. I very much hope that the opposition will also support it sooner or later. I think these children really need this support. Now that Eesti Päevaleht has published some claims and mentioned some amounts. You've been a professional journalist. If I were you, I'd certainly keep a sense of criticism. Everything published in the press is not always pure gold. I don't really want to compare this Kadri Ibrus story to Tallinn Television, but I can tell you that one day I got to watch Heimar Leng's show where he analyzed what happened in this hall. This analysis was quite far from what actually happened in this hall. So any media publication, even as dignified as EPL, is sometimes wrong in the details. This must be taken into account. If the comments are specified and explained, it is worth believing these comments. The last part of your question concerned whether a science-based parental programme or similar methodology has been developed in Estonia, just as it has been done internationally. The direct answer is that we do not have these methodologies in this form. All the experts whose names are listed in the fourth column, which barely fits into one A4 page, have participated in the development plan for children and families, which has been supported and approved by several ministries. They have all pointed out that such a methodology must be introduced. I would not be ashamed to learn from those countries where things are good in one area or another. It is likely that many countries have a lesson to learn from us on many matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U106	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I wonder how proud you are to talk about need-based child support, not to mention 9 euros and 59 cents. This support, in your opinion, means, like the rescue of those children living on the poverty line. But these families also have to go and prove that they need this support. Going to prove it costs money, for example, if you need to buy a bus ticket. This support is extremely small. Have you discussed that perhaps this money should still have been directed to offer free school food? At school, children can eat regularly, but no free food is currently available in upper secondary school. This 9 euros 59 cents is actually a ridiculous sum.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U108	Thank you. If I were you, I wouldn't ridicule those benefits. I'm sure you know we're switching to need-based child support in two sections. Within a few years, their families' support will be doubled. A family with three children has much higher amounts, as the third child's allowance increases to around 95 euros. These additional amounts may be modest in your opinion, but I believe that for this family who really needs help, especially if there are several children in that family, the total amount of family allowances granted by the Estonian state is a very necessary addition. I certainly wouldn't want to ridicule them in any way. I stress once again that child benefit will double in two years. This first increase, which will take place in the summer of this year, will certainly not be final; as early as the beginning of 2015 there will be just as much of you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U109	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U110	Thank you. As you well know, in order to say this with absolute certainty, the two sets of statistics should look side by side. But I dare say with great confidence that the lion's share of those who went to work escaped poverty. We cannot say with certainty that they lived in poverty before, because there are also unemployed people in Estonia who live in a family where the second earner receives a decent income or the person found a job when, for example, he or she received an unemployment benefit. All 600-800 unemployed people who have been employed on average a week may not have lived in poverty before that. Putting these two indicators together is not methodically the most accurate. But I think this order of magnitude is similar to how many people suffer from poverty. I would point out that relative poverty is a concept that is treated as a percentage of society's overall prosperity. A person who earns a certain amount could become relatively poorer by earning the same amount next year because society as a whole has become more prosperous. It is also worth observing these statistical features. Absolute poverty is based on absolute numbers, relative poverty takes into account the prosperity of society as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U111	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Mailis Reps, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U112	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. Let me remind you of what we are discussing under this item. We are talking about a development plan that should significantly improve the situation of all children living in Estonia in the long and hopefully short term. Indeed, a very wide range of experts were involved in the development of the development plan. Those who deal with children's problems every day are certainly extremely familiar with the problems that the Minister ignored today by slipping over with playful ease. This aspect, which the Minister of Social Affairs was trying to use, would certainly be suitable for the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who could bring out statistics and play with it, whether someone is less or more poor, or whether he is relatively poor or really poor. As we move around Estonia, I hope that the Minister of Social Affairs learns more and more to do this, we do not really see families living in relative poverty, but families in very difficult circumstances. These people are no longer unemployed; they have long been alienated from work, because there is no way to find a job in the area where they live. For various reasons, they may not have so much desire, desire or opportunity to move to those areas where there are jobs. That's why they're not included in the statistics. They may not take up the much-appreciated opportunity that has been repeatedly presented today as a large rescue ring, that it will be possible to receive EUR 9 and a half in support if, in the end, the application reaches the social worker. They do not ask for this support either, because living a little further away from the centre often does not just have access to a social worker. As we read the comments of the so-called reality series viewers, we can see that people are asking by shaking their heads whether it really is our Estonia. Yeah, I'm sorry. We, too, have had very negative experiences with people who have once come to ask for help and will never go back to asking for help. We have people who don't even know how to ask for help. Today, we could sum up the subject in this Chamber so that we currently have a development plan. However, we would now like to get from statistics, figures and beautiful slogans so that we can talk about a step forward. Whether these books are green, yellow or white, we want to see concrete steps. There is, as the Minister of Social Affairs very well knows, a new budget to be put together. What are the concrete steps we will see in the 2014 budget, which will result from the development plan and substantially improve the situation of our children next year? What are the direct measures to improve the situation of children in one age group or another, helping children to participate in activities of interest, helping children living away from the centre to provide support after school days have ended? Are these direct grants to some NGOs, these are indirect measures, as you said, through mobile groups? We need to help directly those children who belong to the risk group and who do not need a document of the type of development plan, but the resulting next steps. I would like to make one more point. The minister's child has already grown a little bigger. It is certainly nice to stress that we have parental benefit. We all agree that these first measures are important. But it's just as important to notice that you actually take a child of one and a half to eat once, and for the next three months, she'll be home sick. Our child benefits, paid after the end of the parental benefit, do not give parents a choice. It is not a question of whether or not parents want a mansion for a child, but simply of the fact that, after the end of parental benefit, the other social measures that support raising children are so small. Let's see how much the average kindergarten costs, plus taking into account the child's food costs. Then we see that, unfortunately, it is not rare that there is even a place in kindergarten, but a child is not taken there for material reasons. At the same time, the family does not belong to such a risk group as to wish or be able to apply for exemption from kindergarten or catering fees. This is the circle of problems that were touched upon when the development plan was developed. At this point, perhaps it would be quite appropriate to go beyond the figures for a moment and see what the chances of reaching each child are. Finally, I am talking about the fact that a new concept of the Child Protection Act has already been discussed in the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. There will certainly be more specific discussions in this Chamber on how to actually protect a child in cases where a child needs protection from his or her own parents. It is certainly possible to highlight other studies that show how parents still need support and information on how to raise children better. But the understanding that a child is always the best biological parent must also break order in our society. Unfortunately, we must quite often hear a social worker commenting on some sad cases later saying that he was unable to intervene before because there had been no incident, although the risk group had long been kept an eye on it. At these moments, the legislator must also come to the aid and listen to the opinions of the experts who have brought this issue to the fore in developing the development plan. Finally, I encourage the Minister for Social Affairs to take a broader view of the subject. Surely one very important measure that brought relief to so many families a few years ago is warm school food. Summer holidays are ahead and are quite awaited by the Ministry of Social Affairs and several non-profit institutions, because the offer of warm school meals ends in early or mid-June, but for very many children this is the only way to get warm food. What alternatives the rest of the sector offers, it remains an issue which, I hope, the Minister will also deal with before mid-June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U113	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U114	Mr. President! Since today we have no intention of delaying the sitting, I am not giving a long speech, but I will be very brief. In general, my speech or speech is not intended for members of the opposition who are the only ones in this Chamber, after all, members of the coalition are resting on Mondays, but it is intended to provide a small explanation for the viewers. The inquiries that are discussed on Mondays are like candy for every minister, like a sweet bite. The questions are known a month in advance, the Ministry staff has written very nice and constructive answers. Only after they start asking questions on the spot that the respondent is unaware of, and then he has to improvise. Some nice sentences are also prepared for this occasion, which can be placed among the answers. The next day, the press usually quotes not the heirs, but the minister, how brilliant it was and how wise he said it. I found the sentence that was written down. This is a great sentence: 'If there is even one child who lives in poverty, it is a problem for society. ' Well, a tear comes to your eye! But at the end of the Minister's presentation, I heard another saying, which should also be remembered, for a very long time: 'Such poverty is part of the prosperity of society. ' Excellent! I am very happy that the slogan 'The Five richest! 'I think he's been cut off. Thank God! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U115	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U116	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have briefly read this development plan and I think I understand which programme is being implemented in Estonia. But I haven't been able to read the analysis anywhere. You said that there are studies that have resulted in such a program being commissioned, that there are parents who do not know how to raise children, and this programme is as if it helps them to cope. The National Audit Office has done a very good analysis and introduced it to members of the Riigikogu and the public. It is said that the problem of the Estonian state is that social workers, doctors, schools and police do not cooperate sufficiently. In every municipality, there are not even child welfare workers. Do you not think that we should first eliminate the causes, that we should ensure that parents have jobs, that there are circles of interest at school and that children have places to be? Shouldn't we start with the reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U117	Thank you. I very much agree with the final part of your question. I myself said that the best cure for poverty is when family members have a job and the family can support themselves. However, for those whose pay is low or who do not have a job for one reason or another, additional child benefit is certainly necessary. As regards the presence of a child welfare worker in municipalities, I would point out that in some municipalities, the function of a child welfare worker is performed by an employee with another title. This is, in a sense, inevitable as long as we have areas where, for example, less than a thousand people live. It may not be possible for this municipality to keep an official on the payroll who is only involved in child welfare work, so child welfare must be dealt with alongside other social-related tasks. If you are now asking whether this is reasonable and ensures a uniform quality of child protection work across Estonia, the answer is, of course, no. In order to ensure a level playing field, we need not that there is necessarily a person in every area who has a child protection worker label on the door of his office, but we need these workers to be supported when such a case arises. We create central and mobile groups of professionals with broad-based experience. An employee of a small rural municipality does not have such experience even if he really only deals with these matters, because in a small area such cases may not be so numerous as to be able to behave in one situation or another. This issue will be discussed in depth in the new draft law on child protection. As far as I know, this has also been introduced to the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu. A number of engagement events are planned in the near future to improve the specific points of the Child Protection Act. But the full text of the bill is being prepared. I hope, with your help, this bill will become a law this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U118	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When you answered the questions, you kept reminding me that there are a lot of errors in the questioning process and that you should definitely read through the development plan. First of all, members of the Riigikogu, as you remember, may ask exactly as they wish. The development plan, I hope, has indeed been studied by most because it is a very good document as a development plan. Very many experts were involved in this work for a long time. Now let's take a step forward. We have a great document, we have a development plan, we have very high expectations. How can we make so many dreams come true? The same so-called travel programme to Australia created hundreds and hundreds of comments, at least in the Education Forum list, that we do not appreciate our experts. Are such poopas still coming up, or are the next action plans more thought out?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U120	Thank you. I think you're doing too much for several hundred people when you call it the phopa of the children's and families' development plan. These people are from very different areas of life, including public officials from several ministries and institutions, representatives of non-profit organisations, representatives of scientists. This is a very broad-based development plan. I think it's worth reading and starting with. In addition to helping Estonian families who need it to cope better with their children, there are, of course, many things that help the Estonian people to survive and help them to have more children in Estonian families. We deal with these issues every day. In addition to the development plan, we are going to develop a Green Paper on family policy, which sets out policy objectives and also looks at bottlenecks. One of the important bottlenecks I have already mentioned is that not all municipalities guarantee families with children the confidence that the child will receive a place that is affordable for parents, either in kindergarten or in childcare. I believe that as a parent, you know very well how a creepy feeling can be when a family cannot plan whether or not both parents can go to work next to a one-and-a-half-year-old child. If you have to stay at home with your child after you have completed your parental benefit, you may have significantly lower incomes for your family. This is certainly the reason for many families to be delayed or, in the saddest cases, abandoned for quite a long time. I believe that we must put emphasis first on the services provided when parental benefit is no longer paid. Parental benefit is a very good measure, it increases confidence, but this confidence can only last until the parental benefit lasts, i.e. until the child reaches the crèches. If the family doesn't know what's going to happen after that, then it can reduce confidence. This is certainly one reason why in some families a child is born later or will not be born at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U121	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U122	Mr. Minister! You said that our country was doing well and that nearly 600 children could escape poverty a week. Does this mean that 31000 children will escape poverty a year and that in two years the problem will be solved? Or did I misunderstand something? I hope so, but confirm it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U123	Thank you. You quoted me inaccurately. I told you that, lately, 600-800 people have been employed a week. Indeed, unemployment has decreased very rapidly in recent weeks. It has been falling very quickly for two and a half years. Leaving unemployment is certainly the fastest and most secure guarantee of exiting poverty. However, extrapolation of recent weeks' trends over the next two years may be an exaggeration, although I believe that we all would like it to continue. In Estonia, registered unemployment has reached 6.4%. I am absolutely certain that there is still room for a reduction in unemployment, but I do not dare to say with certainty that it could fall at the same rate for two years in a row as in recent weeks, perhaps very quickly. It is unlikely that unemployment rates will turn negative.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U124	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Listening to Mr Laas and to your discussion of these 600-800 people, I think it became even more confusing. When those 600-800 people, whether weekly or monthly or whatever, went to work, did they not get up from the poverty line? If that didn't happen to them, why did those fools go to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U126	Let's move on to the next question. The Social Minister, Taavi Rõivas, will answer the question. I ask Viktor Vassilyev, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu speech chair, to introduce an inquiry that bears number 317!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U127	Mr President! Inquiries shall be submitted long before they are answered. This question was already submitted by the members of the Centre Party Group on 28 March. The minister had plenty of time to prepare the answer. The inquiry was based on two facts known at the time. Firstly, on 20 March, a patient with severe schizophrenia left a reinforced care home with the consent of the employees. He froze to death in a ditch. Second, on March 22, in another nursing home for adults with special psychiatric needs, the subject assaulted another patient, resulting in the death of that other patient. This all happened more than a month ago, but it is not forgotten, but it is a topic that has been taken up in society, and it has been greatly amplified because there have been other cases of this kind. The controversy in society is that the nursing home system does not work as if people needed it. There are no places, staff are underpaid, qualified staff are difficult to find, and people have to pay for a nursing home that they simply have nowhere to take. There are thousands of disabled people living in Estonian homes who need care and supervision around the clock. Are they gonna get it or not? Some can wait for help, some can't. In all of this, the Ministry of Social Affairs constantly stresses that funding for care care is improving and investment is increasing, but unfortunately it does not comfort people who write distressing letters to newspaper editorials and publish articles about welfare problems, completely unsolvable problems and their concerns that cannot be resolved. In this regard, we asked five rather simple questions. I am absolutely sure that the Minister for Social Affairs has excellent answers to all five of these questions. I'm pretty much guessing what those answers might be. We can immediately hear from this remote control how infrastructure is being invested, more stringent criteria are being created and better standards are being applied. Local authorities are also clearly mentioned, that the problem should, like, be brought on by them. Local governments are, of course, Tallinn. Perhaps it is even specified that Edgar Savisaar is kept in mind in person. Of the smaller municipalities, the coalition has as much heat or cold as our Minister of Social Affairs from the contents of the foreign grandmother's pampers. But I'm sure they'll find the guy who did it. The culprit is free public transport and Tallinn TV. Tallinn Television is currently making a broadcast, and Tallinn Television is not only viewed by the members of the management board of the Centre Party, but is seen by the people throughout Estonia. I believe that people are interested in having the honourable Minister for Social Affairs read out the questions that we have put to him once more. The people will listen to these questions, and then the people will decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U128	Thank you! I ask the Minister of Social Affairs of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I respond to nine members of the Riigikogu asking questions about the availability and quality of care services. Question 1: 'What is the Ministry of Social Affairs planning to do to ensure a high-quality provision of care in institutions and how to prevent similar tragic events in the future? " These cases, of course, must be dealt with with with the utmost seriousness and all the details must be explained in order to find ways to prevent such situations. I immediately instructed the Social Insurance Board to carry out official supervision. It has to be said that although work is still ongoing, it is already known that not everything that has come to the public has been completely accurate. All these stories are often more complicated than at first glance. I therefore also have a request for Members and politicians to talk about issues more widely and not to comment on specific cases on the lack of information. When we draw conclusions from the lack of information, it can get pretty bad. In 2013, the Ministry of Social Affairs will prepare a strategy for special welfare. Its aim is to agree, together with experts and all parties, on the objectives of developments in the field and the more precise needs for services. We have, of course, involved representatives of people with special needs, but also representatives of service providers, people working in special care, as well as people involved in training and other interest groups in the preparation of the strategy. We want to systematically, not only analyse on the basis of individual cases (although individual cases are very important) the shortcomings in the area and plan activities. It is known that a very large part of the quality of service is made up of a spatial programme. It is very important under which conditions the service is provided. We therefore take very seriously investment in the infrastructure for care services for people with special care or mental needs. While some EUR 30 million were invested in the creation of new locations and the readjustment of places last year, in the coming years these amounts will be more than EUR 50 million, in the old currency nearly EEK 1 billion. If we have so far renewed or modernised 550 stationary places (I am now talking about special care, which had the emphasis on the first question), in the coming years we want to further modernise around 2 000 stationary places. This helps to ensure that quality services are provided throughout Estonia. Question 2: 'How do you think you can provide a place for all those in need of care? ' I believe you agree that this issue could actually be reworded in this way: how can we ensure that all those in need get a service that suits them? Not all needy people need inpatient care in a care establishment. It is also reasonable for people with special psychological needs to offer opportunities to live at home and use these services as a matter of priority. More flexible solutions need to be found. Of course, those customers who need a fixed service need to be guaranteed these places. True, there are queues in special care. We want to lose these queues during the next period of use of EU funds. As I said, we are going to invest more than EUR 50 million to this end. This is one of the most important areas where European Union funds are being used. Just for the record, 5413 people use the services of people with special psychological needs financed by the state as of the end of March. This population is divided into half: 2723 people use community support services and 2690 people use fixed services provided 24 hours a day. These investments, which I was talking about, focus primarily on stationary services. But, as you will understand, community support services are often more acceptable to people and cheaper for society. We certainly intend to contribute to these services, including the care of people with special psychological needs and the elderly, as well as the care of people with special psychiatric needs in general. Question 3: "What is the Ministry planning to do to ensure that there are sufficient qualified staff in each institution? ' I agree that the full availability of qualified staff cannot be guaranteed on the basis of established minimum requirements: at least basic education and registered refresher training. We are also reviewing the requirements for education and training in this strategy, but we cannot overcome or reverse the fact that there is a need for a significant increase in the level of pay in institutions. The Ministry of Finance has carried out a salary analysis in all fields. The Ministry of Social Affairs is one of those with poor wages, where wages need to be raised considerably. We certainly want to raise salaries with next year's budget. The extent to which this is possible is demonstrated by time and depends on the possibilities of the national purse, but this is a very clear priority for the ministry. By concluding a health care wage agreement, it was agreed that the wages of care workers would increase the fastest. I believe that this should also be done more broadly in the ministry's administration. Care workers' salaries, which are relatively the lowest, should increase the fastest. Question 4: 'Do you consider that there are sufficient and unambiguously regulated work obligations for care workers? ' As you well know, the general requirements for the provision of services are laid down in the Social Welfare Act. All these requirements are monitored by the Social Insurance Board. Both systematically, in the process of drawing up the strategy and in the light of specific cases, we must definitely be open, because if we find bottlenecks, regulation must not be set in stone and, if necessary, changes must be made. Question 5: 'When does the Ministry of Social Affairs plan to raise the remuneration of persons working in nursing homes in order to provide care workers with a decent salary? ' That's what I basically answered. The short and precise answer is that we want to raise wages from the beginning of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U130	Minister, there is at least one question for you. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U131	Thank you. Dear Minister, The monthly fee for the home varies between 500 and 1000 euros, which is not torn out of the best pension. So it is only between domestic slavery and servitude that the loved ones who are forced into a sickbed choose. It would be humane to have enough pension to pay for a nursing home and to have pocket money. I think it would be reasonable not to reduce the income tax rate by 1% in 2015 (from which only employees with a higher income would win anyway) and to spend the EUR 70 million collected on nursing homes, as well as developing home care and home care services and making them more affordable. Do you think it is right that the income tax rate must be reduced by 1% at all costs, or that money, say, should be spent for people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U132	Time, questioner, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U133	Thank you. I believe you will understand that we are talking about the welfare of people with special psychological needs in the context of the inquiry submitted by the Centre Party. But, of course, if you want to talk about general care, at times you also mentioned nursing care, then we can also talk about these issues. The important thing is that we all understand what the subject is about. First of all, about home nursing. As well as nursing care or old-name nursing care, it is a health care service that should not be confused with the service provided by the nursing home. The number of visits to home nursing has increased in a short period of time from 8,000 visits per year to 320,000 visits per year. In the coming years, we want to bring the number of home visits to 500000. Every year, there will be half a million visits to the home nurse in Estonia. This is estimated to cover the service needs. You also took the story to nursing care. Care inpatient places is funded by the sickness fund in the lion's section, the next wager is the municipality. Unfortunately, there are also municipalities that are very stunty, including Tallinn. We have already discussed this in response to Mr Viktor Vassilyev's inquiry. In my opinion, it is not right for Tallinn to contribute so little to care treatment, precisely in terms of the place fee. The patient's own contribution accounts for about 15% of the care fee. There too, we will reach the level that covers Estonia's need for fixed services in the next few years. This is a need of around 2,500 stationary places. You brought in general care and informal care more widely as a topic. We do not need to make the tax climate less favourable to people; even less so, we need to go down the path of a social democratic tax policy that cuts people's well-being and future growth. We can contribute significant resources to home care services and the provision of personal care leave, the development and financing of these services. We have already planned more than 33 million euros from European Union funds to develop these services so that their quality is uniform across Estonia. As a remark, regarding the stationary service, the amounts you mentioned indicate the price level of Tallinn and its immediate surroundings. I went to several institutions last week. Among them were those with vacancies. They were very high-quality service providers. Not all places have the price of the service as high as you claimed. But the truth is that, in most places, the pension amount of EUR 100.200 is to be paid in addition to its own contribution. We have offered different solutions for this, especially for people whose loved ones are unable to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U134	Dear Minister, There are still questions for you. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U135	Thank you. Good minister! I don't know how I got hit so well in the first place. You spoke more or less as I predicted in your answers. You talked about betting and that requirements should be reviewed and raised, you talked about priorities, and you also arrived, as I predicted, at the local government, Tallinn. I'm glad our plans went the same way. But you did not mention public transport and Tallinn Television. Will you say a few words about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U136	Thank you. As I said before, we have queues for certain services, partly dependent on space programmes. Over the next few years, the investments that we have planned and for which we have a real financial cover will cover the investment needs of people with special mental needs. I'm pretty sure the queues are starting to shrink. An increase in the national budget's bounty is needed in order for funding to be needed. If the number of recipients of the service is increasing, of course there is greater pressure on the budget, but since this is a service provided by law, I am absolutely sure that resources will have to be found for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U137	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U138	Thank you. Minister, you said that we have more favourable nursing homes, as well as those with empty spaces. Maybe you'll name one, then you'll know how to recommend them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U139	Thank you. An exceptionally beautiful care home with extraordinarily friendly staff and reasonably priced, which is located a little far from Tallinn, but in a very beautiful place of nature, is Alutaguse Hoolekeskus. This house is freshly renovated. I had contact with the people who lived there, and they are very satisfied with the quality of the service. The rooms are more suitable there than they can ever be in most homes. But it is also true that living in an institution is not automatically a solution for everyone. When we talk about people's own wishes, there are quite a lot of people who want home care. They are also greatly supported by the state. But that was one example. You can bring a lot of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U140	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Viktor Vassilyev, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U141	Mr President! Minister, thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In Estonia, the care home problem is slightly different from those countries where the welfare system is well developed. This system is usually well developed where the economy is also well developed and people are more prosperous. Whether it is Scandinavia, Central Europe or even the United States, with which we do not have much of a thing, because it is so far away from us, but there a person already takes into account that once this stage of life is in place and he does not want to get in the way of children, he will choose an institution that is suitable for him in terms of services, in a place he likes, and which is affordable for him. Since in a well-being society, people have earned enough resources for themselves for the final period of life, which we call pillars, they can do very well. In Estonia, however, a person goes to a nursing home when he or she is so poor, old and sick that he or she simply cannot cope at home. There's a big difference. Of course, all sorts of fine programs and development plans can be created, where the ultimate goal is that when the development plan is implemented, all older people are satisfied and happy. But the money it takes won't bring us much more. Despite the fact that we are told here that there are plenty of places and yes, there are excellent conditions in Alutaguse and home care continues to develop like a mumble, people still complain that they can't and can't pay for it. Old children, who are supposed to take over this responsibility and pay the amount they are missing, pay their home expenses, pay taxes, and train their children. Where do they get the EUR 200.300? Everyone doesn't have to take it. I'm afraid that's the case. That's why people are starting to invent all kinds of fantastic solutions. They're building some kind of Utopia, a cooperative nursing home: a couple of dozen old people are putting their money together, buying some old collage house, renovating it, and trying to build something there, I'm sorry, that reminds Orwell's Animal Farm. It's a fairy tale, it's not gonna work out. It is still the responsibility of the state to maintain the welfare system. In fact, it shows the welfare system and how we care for old people, how we care about older ones. The way the state manages the welfare system also shows how the state cares about older people who have spent their lives contributing to the well-being of the country and the people, no matter what wars, revolutions, and exorcisms would have gone through here. In fact, our good minister got nailed when he answered the previous question, saying that the best medicine was work. If the working-age members of the family have a job, they can solve all the problems, and it is a pity if there is no job. That's it. Can I have a little more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U142	If that's what you want. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U143	Thank you. Yeah, the best medicine is work. If the younger members of the family have a job, there is an income, they can, of course, take care of an elderly person, whether at home, in a nursing home or in an expensive institution such as Villa Benita. There's money, we'll pay for it so our little pussy's good to be cared for, and really happy and happy. Then when they visit him, they can see that he has been washed beautifully and combed, and they can listen to what Grandma tells them. Grandma's gonna tell some great old-fashioned stories, not about it. I'm sorry she's got pampers all day without changing. But what do you say when there's no job and the government lets the press discuss euthanasia completely calmly? I refused to comment on television and newspapers about euthanasia because there is a terminological misunderstanding. One thing is when euthanasia is legalized in the Netherlands. If there is a person 95 years old and chronically ill, then he is surrounded by all kinds of care, and his basic physical needs are assured, there is also a service of the soul; he is surrounded with real care. When he's tired of life, it's his voluntary decision to leave life. It can be respected if society so chooses. But on what surface did we talk about euthanasia? From the surface that the nursing home is unattainable, the children cannot pay for the place, and there are cases where very, very elderly people fall out of either the sick house or the window on the top floor of their apartment building, and then it turns out that it was an accident under confused circumstances. On this basis, we will be talking about euthanasia. It's not euthanasia. People, we're talking about emergency killing! This is not the subject that should be discussed in society at all. We should talk about what our good Minister for Social Affairs pointed out that the best medicine is work. In my opinion, the Government of the Republic should honestly say: 'People, the work you can support yourself with, we do not have a chance to offer you, because we do not have an economy that will sustain you or an agriculture that can feed you. We don't know what's gonna happen in the future. ' That would be fair. Then widen your hands and say you can't, but don't lie. Life will show you what happens. According to the survey, there are 90 confessions in Estonia, different religions. Only those who believe in the government's development plans would be missing, reading them, declaring these principles from the pulpit, so that the people would worship and believe, and being happy and happy, so that people would know that the time will surely come when the government will bring universal happiness to our courtyard. May this government be praised forever and ever! Amen.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U144	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Social Affairs of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U145	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U146	I'm asking you to stay within the limits of your questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U147	Thank you. You know, this subject is too serious to make such a mockery of it. I have the impression at times that you're doing this. It is also true that if Tallinn were to channel this money to Tallinn's Television, for example, in informal care or why not in care care care care, this money would be a thousand times more useful than the fact that we see our colleague Heimar Lenk making some incoherent talk on television.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U148	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U149	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister tried to convince us here that care activities are currently in progress, especially for the services provided to people with special psychological needs, which were the subject of the inquiry, and there is hope that the European money for the next period will become a larger circle of renovations. You also touched the wages. You have visited these institutions and have given positive examples that it is possible to provide people with this service at quite affordable prices when it may be a dangerous person for the rest of the family. Do you think there is enough of these opportunities, or do we have a lot of room for improvement?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U150	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I would just like to point out that Viktor Vassilyev's last speech did not have a very close connection with the question he made some time ago. We spoke today about the welfare of people with special psychological needs in the form of questions and answers. This is a service that is called special care in a professional bed. It is a separate service financed separately and organised in institutions other than general care, elderly care or informal care. I very much hope that if you want to talk in this Chamber about the care and care of the elderly in general, you will be asking questions or asking questions about it in Question Time. Then we will be able to discuss this issue. If you ask about one subject, but then you comment on another, even though it has a little to do with it, it is not, I think, the most fruitful discussion. We stay focused and talk about all the topics, but we talk about the substance and so that the content of the inquiry and subsequent comments are consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U151	Let's move on to the next question, number 311. The question is answered by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. I ask Rannar Vassilyev, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu, to introduce the questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U152	Ladies and gentlemen, On 25 March, the Social Democrats submitted an inquiry to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi regarding the additional financing needs of Eesti Energia. The reason for this came from information distributed in the press, which had quite a number of worrying aspects. That is what we want to ask the Minister about. The first aspect, which is certainly worth mentioning, is that the additional capital needs of Eesti Energia can allegedly amount to EUR 1 billion, about half of which, or 0.5 billion, should come from the pocket of the state. Secondly, this article revealed that the members of the Board of Eesti Energia claim that they do not have information on what the investment is intended to be used for. We have also been alarmed by three flash estimates, the average of which gives the value of electricity production and retail sales only less than a tenth of the value of the Estonian Energia Group as a whole. As a result of all this, we have eight questions for the good finance minister, to which we ask an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U153	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi of the Riigikogu to answer his questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs! First of all, I would like to point out that you have been very impatient. You submitted an inquiry to me a month before I could even begin to play the role of stockholder. For now, I've only played this role for two weeks. Your first question concerns the size of investments and how they will be timed. You rightly state that last year, according to the budget, the state invested 150 million euros in equity capital for Eesti Energia. Further plans are such that up to EUR 200 million will be allocated in 2013 according to the budget, but for technical reasons these investments are obviously shifting and this money will not be needed this year. There's a place to decide if it's gonna be needed next year. In the second question, you refer to the board member, who talks about the government's commitment to allocate EUR 400 to 500 million in share capital. This interview probably refers to the decision of the government in 2010 not to take Eesti Energia's shares to the stock exchange and to invest in equity capital itself if necessary. This plan was clarified on 3 May 2012. But every major investment is decided separately, so right now we have no news to add. I suggest that the government behaves conservatively and not just go along with all aggressive investment plans. Thirdly, you are asking whether the government has information on the investments in the short term and whether the financial injections are justified. This, once again, is, as has been mentioned, a decision-making place. The government has received an overview of the ten-year investment requests of the company in 2009, 2010 and 2012. We haven't discussed them this year. We know that investments in the oil industry are slowing down for technical reasons. Our knowledge is certainly not at this level, as in 2009-2010, but all over time. Fourthly, you are asking whether, in addition to the expansion of equity, the investment has also been discussed by means of a financial loan. Of course, each company, as well as Eesti Energia, has made most of its investments with loan capital. In the last two years, from 2011 to 2012, a loan of EUR 435 was made and at the end of the year the balance sheet stood at EUR 733 million. Fifthly, you are asking about the financial ratios that you have read in the annual report. First of all, what are the commitments in the loan agreement on the loan ratios is not public information. But, of course, the company itself is following a conservative line, and the opinions of credit rating agencies are also important here. At present, the company has set the net debt limit at three times its annual operating profit before depreciation. At the end of 2012, this ratio was 2,1 but it will increase. Sixthly, you're asking Moody's about the negative outlook for why it's negative. The reason is undoubtedly a more conservative view of the business risks of Eesti Energia. On the one hand, there is an increase in competition due to the opening of the electricity market, on the other hand, a slight failure to start an oil plant. Seventhly, you ask about the volume of Eesti Energia liquidity lines. You wonder why it has been reduced and why it is EUR 400 million. First of all, I do not know any reason why this should be discussed in Parliament. Among the risks of this company, the liquidity risk is probably the most conceivable one and it is well managed. This is certainly not the subject of a debate at parliamentary level, nor is the general meeting dealing with liquidity management. However, as you can imagine, the size of the liquidity buffers is linked to the size and timing of investments. However, it is not reasonable to assume that the liquidity buffer is something for which long-term investments are made. It's still a different instrument. Eighth, you ask about quick estimates and the market value of Eesti Energia's electricity production and retail sales. You're complaining it's small. This suggests that Eesti Energia does not trim consumers, as is often said, but that there is intense competition in this area, costs are increasing and revenue is controlled by the market. If you look at the long-term averages of Nord Pool, you can see that they still severely limit the profitability of electricity generation and are even risky. I would like to say to the party that goes to protest under the window of ministers that I am waiting under my window for a demonstration that praises the fall in the price of electricity, which has just been seen. The price of electricity is seasonal and the long-term average of Nord Pool is something that points to future market prices. But thank you! That's all I'm doing right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U155	Minister, there are questions for you. Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U156	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I thought you said Enefit 280 was a little late to start. I think it's about a year now. That is, frankly, a serious deficiency. We went there and it turned out that maybe it was even design mistakes. If the coefficient of thermal expansion is not taken into account when measuring the length of the loading pins, it is still a coarse and vulgar mistake. What do you think will happen next, when will the new owner get this new factory started?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U157	I'm glad to see you know so well. I deny the political leadership of companies and the mentality of the collective chairman, that I should give answers to technology. However, I was already in 2008, when I was a member of the Estonian Energy Council, so wise that I knew that, as far as I know, this was twice as much, how should I say what this really specialized word is? Getting the oil grate to work is a long test. It is not just that twice the size of the device works exactly as twice the size of the device, which has been tested many times.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U158	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U159	Thank you. I have an Estonian Energy strategy ahead of me. It says here a project in progress, the construction of a power plant in Auvere, with a forecast volume of EUR 638 million. Last year, €278 million of this was spent. The projected return on capital for this project is negative (1.2%). You weren't the owner of the shares at the time that the decision was made, but you were part of the government where it was supposedly discussed and the decisions made. The next page contains Elering's forecast until 2023, where it can be seen that even without the new Auvere block, we will be guaranteed to meet the peak load in the future. What is the reason for this investment, which the company itself does not think is economically viable, to be made?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U160	Thank you. As you well know, the reason for this was above all energy security, which was considered very important at the time. But if you have any better ideas, please note that I am only prepared to discuss them once I have held stocks for a while and have managed to deal with this issue. I am now a simple member of the government in terms of long-standing investments.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U161	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U162	My question is the question of a simple member of the Riigikogu for a simple member of the government. The fact that the state receives some income from its mineral resources is probably normal. The path chosen is that the state invests, actually investing its money in expanding the share capital of Eesti Energia in order to get oil production going. Another option would be that the company itself evaluates its risks and takes out a loan, it does so through loans. It has now been decided to do so, probably in the hope of taking the dividend and helping the company in the future. Has the government discussed alternatives to oil shale production so that the state can obtain its income? Is this the only way that we are now placing money in a state company to start this production?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U163	Thank you. I don't know what you mean by an alternative. It's a natural financial management. Most of the investment comes from a loan, but the equity base must also be decent. I don't know what you mean by an alternative.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U164	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Rannar Vassilyev, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U165	I'll be very brief. The Social Democrats who have submitted this question are concerned about the future of Eesti Energia. We are concerned about the way it is said that decisions are made there. As the members of the board describe in the newspaper, they lack precise information on why and what will be done in the future. However, we are of the opinion that this is an extremely important company for the Estonian state and that this company must undoubtedly be able to continue its economic, financial and real activities. We are therefore concerned about a number of decisions that are actually imposed on the company. The company itself says that there will be no future potential for producing oil shale electricity. To argue that it eliminates the security risk of the majority of electricity generation being diverted into a single region and to call it risk mitigation seems to be highly questionable according to the usual logic. Even if it is not economically viable, the question arises as to whether our common resource, which is contained in the ground itself, could not be used more rationally and rationally from an environmental point of view as well as from a financial point of view. Because, as the current situation shows, it seems more appropriate to reward oil shale in a form other than electricity in the product. So it seems to many who are in this Chamber, so to those who belong to Parliament, but why not also to members of the government, so does Eesti Energia itself. In the opinion of the Socialists, it makes perfect sense that oil shale is used, but it must be used in such a way that it is most beneficial to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U166	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U167	Let's move on to the fifth question. The number of the inquiry is 314 and corresponds to Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment. Please contact Tiit Tammsaare, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U168	Mr President! I'll say a few words for the introduction. Timespace has, of course, done its job; it has been a certain time since the questioning was made. In the meantime, the Riigikogu has been brought down with the new Hunting Act, but formally the old law is still in force. As I have heard, on the way to Kadriorg, the prayers of several associations are not to proclaim this law. Let's see how time goes. One might say that the questions that have been asked are also relevant today. For the sake of the truth, these answers are, in any case, very important. We know that the new law will not release old mistakes; rather, the new law will increase concern about the preservation of Estonia's rich fauna. The most frustrating thing is that it is this poor villager-hunter (the country of Estonia has made such commitments to the European Union) that must pay for the large predators' table. Who would need this fight between a village that had suffered enough? In villages, schools are closed. Banks, post offices, and shops often need to be searched for with matchfire and driven tens of kilometres to find them. To date, local hunters have been good members of the Defence League, free-willed sprayers and relief policemen, and they have volunteered to help the country. Now the same country says they were good, but it's not enough, now they have to pay for the game ovens. The country doesn't get involved, but 200 wolves, 600 bears and lynx, or else... I could go on for a long time. I would like to learn, for example, how, in the opinion of the Minister, despite the Soviet hunting order, the fauna maintained this species diversity and viability for 45 years, despite the Soviet era and the barbaric hunting of supposedly bloodthirsty villagers. I am convinced that due to the entry into force of this new law, all the national pride of Estonia, the fauna of the forests, will be put at risk, but the state will be happy to wipe out its hands, merely saying that it is the land and the hunters who will settle themselves; it will not be particularly relevant to the country. In the end, I would like to know from the Minister, where are the sub-level acts necessary for the entry into force of the new Hunting Act. On rain radio, he scrupulously claimed that they existed. Where are they anyway? Hunters would also like to see them and hear from them. After all, we all know that it is the regulations and regulations of the Minister that realise the new hunting law. What will be done by RMK and what will be the contracts with hunters will be of crucial importance for the Hunting Act. Here, the responsibility of the Ministry and the Minister is enormous. I hope the Minister feels that responsibility too. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U169	Thank you. I ask Keit Pentus-Rosimitud, Minister of Environment of the Riigikogu Chair to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U170	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs, enthusiasts! I am easily embarrassed because the introduction of a good inquisitor went a long way from questioning. I have a desire and a desire to answer these questions, but the Rules of Procedure do not provide for this. The Rules of Procedure will guide me to stay within the framework of the questions you have asked. I'll give you a few details, though. I am certainly also of the opinion that, in general, local hunters have been very good, and the work they have done, and which also means combining work and a hobby, has indeed been very grateful. Individual examples that cooperation has not worked very well, I think, should not damage the overall picture very much. I certainly do not agree, however, with the statement in your introduction that we are dealing with the question of how did you say it? With bloodthirsty villagers or something like that. That statement, I think, remains on your conscience. I'm sure you'll take the opportunity and later specify that you didn't want to hurt the villagers. The specific question in your introduction concerned the so-called "sub-acts" of the new comprehensive hunting law or the regulations resulting from it. These draft regulations were submitted to the Committee on the Environment several months ago, involving people who are actually engaged in hunting, representatives of the hunting society, and representatives of forest owners have also been consulted. Their proposals have been taken into account. I believe that these lower-level regulations are perfectly appropriate so that the hunting law, which awaits the President's signature, can be implemented well. Now I'm forced to come to your questioning. You submitted it at the end of March and the deadline for reply has now arrived. As you mentioned, in the meantime, the new hunting law has been approved by Parliament. Obviously, some of the questions that you asked me in the course of these long discussions have been discussed here and have already been answered by me. I will now come to the questions. The first question: 'Why does the Minister for the Environment apply the current hunting law selectively and has not established any hunting ground management plans or formed any hunting area since October 2009? ' I must specify that all existing hunting areas have been formed in Estonia on the correct legal basis. In the future, on the basis of the new Hunting Act, the Environmental Board will organise all related activities related to hunting areas, taking into account the proposals of the Hunting Council. The hunting council, as foreseen in the new law, will be made up of representatives of hunters and landowners, as well as a representative of the state. The second question: "Who were the officials who decided to liquidate the hunting grounds? ' A little later we will discuss the next question, where you will literally repeat the same question, there you have linked it to the liquidation of a particular department. You can't put an equal sign in there. Parliament decided to abandon the system of national organisation of hunting grounds by adopting a fresh hunting law. If this law enters into force, it will be the legal act with which the decision has been taken. Once again, however, I consider it reasonable to clarify the discord or confusion that has been tried to create here. There is still a situation where all hunting areas operate on the basis of completely correct and still valid authorisations. The end of the first authorisations is due in mid-June and beyond these 64 earlier lease hunting permits should be reviewed, but the old hunting law still provides for completely correct and valid authorisations. The third question: 'Why was there a conflict with the current hunting development plan? " The current hunting development plan has not been contradicted. I am trying to be a bit of a mind reader, trying to guess exactly what you have in mind when you formulate this scarce question. There was a reference to the abandonment of the hunting land management system. However, the same hunting development plan provides for an analysis of the relevance of the organisation of the previous hunting grounds and for a decision to be taken on the basis of the analysis to be taken on the basis of which the plans will be drawn up. The analysis is done, it is available to everyone on the website of the Ministry of the Environment. This analysis did not consider it appropriate to continue with the previous hunting arrangements. Question 4: Will the laws of the Republic no longer be enforced? " Surely they are to be fulfilled. Question 5: "Are you aware of the position of the Deputy Chancellor on behalf of the Ministry? ' The introduction to the inquiry is about two and a half pages long, saying, you quote there the correspondence of Vice Chancellor Andres Talijärv. I am absolutely convinced that the Vice-Chancellor has acted in good faith and with a desire to avoid potential confusion throughout the process of drafting a very long hunt law, has consulted and consulted legal experts in response and has therefore given his explanations. Question 6: "Who is responsible for compliance with or non-compliance with the law in the Ministry? Are you going to hold anyone responsible for harming the Minister's and the Ministry's reputation? " In the ministry, everyone in the ministry is responsible for enforcing the law. The question of whether I will hold anyone responsible for harming the Minister or the Ministry clearly needs to be clarified so that it is clear what you mean by that. If one or the other person working in a ministry is in any way damaging the reputation of a ministry or government or calling into question the validity of the law, he must, of course, be responsible for it. But right now, I don't understand exactly what you're thinking here. The last, seventh question: 'The officials of the Ministry of the Environment have claimed that the problem of 64 rental hunting areas is deliberately maintained in order to ensure the smooth handling of the draft of the Ministry in the Riigikogu. Is this a power trade? " To be honest, I think it's a beautiful ugly and untouchable parallel. This was a draft of the Government, which was discussed by the Riigikogu, he has today expressed his support for it and approved the draft law following the introduction of amendments. It's very difficult for me to comment on. I can only repeat that, with the entry into force of the new Hunting Act, I hope that we can talk about the entry into force of the same 64 rental yacht areas, the same assurance that they will continue to use the seamless hunting area ten years after the entry into force of the Act. In my opinion, these 64 rental hunting areas, where indeed some people have tried to create confusion, have now become a fortress. We are very pleased that Parliament has given this assurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U171	Minister, thank you. You have questions. Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U172	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I think the Ministry's reputation has definitely been damaged. The decisions taken in 2009 and eliminating the organisation of the hunting grounds are very clearly in conflict with both the hunting development plan and the hunting law. But it is certainly not your fault personally, you are not responsible for it, because in 2009 other people made decisions. I think that during this whole process, you have simply been given misleading information, because you would hardly have agreed to all of this. But do you generally agree that the positions of the Deputy Chancellor, the letters that were sent out on behalf of the Ministry, were, in a sense, premature, in some sense also malicious, with the aim of putting pressure on the smooth and swift adoption of the Hunting Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U173	Thank you. I'm sorry I don't have the introduction to the question, because it might be a little confusing what we're talking about here. I do not agree with the fact that the Deputy Chancellor, who has been very active in the development of the Hunting Act since the beginning of this whole process, since 2008, has wanted to provide misleading information or has been malicious. On the contrary, Vice Chancellor Andres Talijärv's wish has been to clarify the situation and the knowledge he has had. If you look at the letter from August 2012, sent to the President of the Estonian Hunters' Association, then indeed at that time the Ministry of the Environment was aware that on 1 March 2013 there might be a situation where 64 rental hunting areas lose their right to use. That was the assessment the lawyers had made at the time. I am pleased that you also refer in your inquiry to the position of the same Vice-Chancel from February 2013, where he explains the position that had developed at that time. It does so with a desire to ease the tension and to explain to 64 rental hunting areas that there is no risk that hunting or access will end from 1 March because it is a time-limited authorisation. I know that this information was passed on to all the members of the Committee on the Environment. If you wanted to take these tensions off, you would have had the same opportunity to explain the real situation. It must be said, however, that you did not do this, but rather that you saw an opportunity to throw down more coal, which certainly was not the most sensible thing to do and created tensions where, for no reason whatsoever, these tensions should not have occurred.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U174	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U175	Thank you. Tensions are likely to culminate only in the autumn or next year, when new tickets will be issued to hunters. But I'm going to ask you another question that I asked at first. What is RMK still doing looking into the future? What will be the framework agreement with the hunters, how many euros per hectare will RMK be asking? He's the one who's gonna create, right, a market trend, and he's gonna be the one who's gonna act like the rest of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U176	Thank you. RMK's main activity is certainly not hunting, it cannot and must not be the main activity that RMK carries out. We have repeatedly explained that RMK does not change its existing principles in the hunting process. As he now gives the most use, it will continue in the future. This is largely done through auction, which gives and has given access to hunters who, for whatever reason, have not become members of one or another hunting society. What are these reasons in some cases, I'm sure you know better than I do. But I still don't understand what kind of ticket you're talking about and who's gonna write them out. I rather agree with the statement in your own introduction that Estonian hunters are reasonable people. It is also very clear in the interests of hunters that relations with landowners are good. Hunters are certainly not interested in having as many areas as possible without contracts where problems could arise. Quite frankly, there is already a situation where most regions are covered by contracts. Most areas are where landowners' and hunters' relationships are perfectly reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U177	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The hunting law that has not yet been implemented has such a principle that in the case of game damage, the landlord and the hunter will work out the things that have happened in the hunting area, but the country will be left out of it. How do you comment on that? Our position is that the state could and should be one of the parties to compensate for damage to game.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U179	Thank you. A good questioner, as well as I know, you know that what you have just said is not true. The State participates in compensation for losses through the Environmental Investment Centre. I read this magnificent statement to the press you made and the letter you sent to the President's Office. I must say that I do not fully understand why you are obviously going to deliberately mislead the President by claiming things that are not true. The State is involved in compensation for losses. In addition to the compensation paid through the Environmental Investment Centre, it also participates in areas where hunting is not allowed. Within a mile radius of the areas bordering these areas, the State has taken full responsibility for all the losses incurred. The claim that the state has completely distanced itself is not true. The State also participates in hunting planning through hunting councils, where the representative of the State is fully present and participates actively there. So don't spread such misleading claims.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U180	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Tiit Tammsaare, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U181	Mr President! I'll be very brief. The money that KIK is currently involved in promoting hunting has been collected from hunters. This money has nothing to do with budget money. In the light of the new law, it is also a hunting fee of EUR 10 or EUR 25, and the resulting repayments are claimed to amount to up to 30%, if KIK's mercy allows it to be collected from hunters. Let's be precise, Madam Secretary! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U182	Thank you. I ask the Minister of the Environment of the Riigikogu Chair Keit Pentus-Rosimannud!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U183	Thank you! This beautiful evening has taken a long time to discuss hunting. I really need to react. Who, then, do you think this country is, what kind of money does the country have to compensate for these losses? Hunters are taxpayers. All other money received from the state's revenues is also collected from taxpayers. Where's the money coming from? I haven't found a closet where anonymous money comes in yet. The Environmental Investment Centre receives money in the same way from the state budget, which is state revenue. This money is what the Environmental Investment Centre covers its share of these damages claims. Anonymous money doesn't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U184	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U185	Let's move on to the next question. Dear colleagues, this is today's sixth inquiry and is answered by the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. An inquiry shall bear the number 315. Rein Randver, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair, will be asked to introduce him to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U186	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. Eight members of the Riigikogu have submitted this inquiry in response to the previous inquiry. Sadly, they admit that the answer to the question has come too late, the process has slowed down. We would also have liked to have used the data of the hunting development plan to process the draft Hunting Act. On the other hand, we see that the Hunting Act has been processed very quickly again in the Riigikogu in order to obtain some sort of clarity in our country's hunting landscape. Inquiries have raised a number of questions. We want to know whether this development plan, which should value nature conservation and rural life, has met its objective of being aware of these problems, actions and results. Will the state continue to be the designer and supervisor of hunting policies? How does the state support hunters by designing a partner organisation? What are the amounts allocated to the development plan, how they have been used and how has the report on the implementation of the development plan been completed? Of course, we're not just watching today. In the last question, we note that the hunting development plan will expire this year. We are interested in whether the Ministry has started developing a new development plan and what this working group is like. We ask the Minister to answer these questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U187	Thank you. In response to the inquiry, the Minister of the Environment of the Riigikogu Chair Keit Pentus-Rosimethus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U188	Good manager! Good heirs! I'm going to answer your questions right now. The first question is beautifully long and reads: 'The improvement, implementation, evaluation and reporting of the development plan are coordinated by the Ministry of the Environment through the Hunting Council convened by the Minister for the Environment. How many times have the hunting council held its meetings between 2008 and 2013? 'There have been four hunting council meetings during this period. Their minutes are available on the website of the Ministry of the Environment. At the last meeting, the draft new Hunting Act was discussed as expected. Among other things, there was a hearing on the report on the implementation of the development plan. At that time, the Minister was authorised to proceed with the draft Hunting Act. Question 2: 'A report on the implementation of the development plan will be submitted to the Environment Minister every three years, under the leadership of the Hunting Council. How many times has the report been drawn up and where can it be consulted? ' The report is presented at these same hunting council meetings. A brief summary of this is available in the minutes of the 2010 Hunting Council meeting. Everyone can get to know it, too. Question 3: 'Indicators of the level of achievement of the objectives of the development plan, together with baseline and benchmark indicators, will be developed during 2009. Have indicators for the level of achievement of the objectives of the development plan, together with baseline and benchmark indicators, been developed and accessible? ' The most important indicator of the development plan was the development and adoption of a hunting law in line with the new development plan and supporting the objectives of the development plan. Today it can be said that this objective has been met. Question 4: 'How much has the right to use hunting grounds been received in the state budget and how much has KIK directed the resources for the targeted use of hunting? Please indicate the amounts broken down by year, 2008 to 2013. 'I try to do it for years. Of course, data for 2013 is not yet available. However, in 2008, around 6.5 million kroons were received in the state budget and projects were financed for nearly 7.5 million kroons. In 2009, EEK 6.6 million was received. 2009 was probably the year when the cut-off budget was adopted, then the hunting projects were financed for EEK 3.6 million. Parliament has adopted a law setting the right-of-use fee to be received by the Environmental Investment Centre at the 2009 level in the coming years. In 2010, the size of the projects was 6,6 million kroons as in 2009 and the volume of the funded projects was slightly above 4 million kroons. In 2011, the amount was EUR 424000 and the projects were financed slightly above EUR 285000. In 2012, the same amount of EUR 424000 was received and the projects were financed for EUR 234000. Question 5: 'The hunting development plan provides for the continuation of the organisation of hunting grounds. Why did the Ministry of the Environment dismantle the Hunting Department and conflict with the implementation of the hunting development plan? 'The plan for hunting cannot, of course, set out the structure of the Ministry of the Environment. The specific restructuring of the departments has in no way run counter to the hunting development plan. Question 6: "Who were the ministerial officials who decided to end the hunting ground arrangement, and what were the arguments? " I already answered that question in response to the previous question. The decision to actually put an end to this system of hunting grounds was recently adopted in Parliament with the approval of the new hunting law. Question 7: '2013. The development plan expires in 2009. Has the Ministry started to prepare a new development plan and are part of a working group? " We are currently preparing a plan, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, for wider development plans. The aim is to identify which development plans are needed and at what level in the future. Until it is clear, we will not begin to draw up a new development plan and consider it useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U189	Thank you. Good Minister, one question for you. Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U190	Thank you. The fundamental decisions at the time have all been discussed and debated in the same hunting council, to which you yourself referred. If your question concerns the reorganisation of one department again, I will say once again that this does not in itself mean that hunting issues will not be dealt with in the future. People responsible for hunting topics are in office in the Forest Department of the Ministry of the Environment. However, in order not to give rise to any confusion again, I would say that under the current so-called old hunting law, all hunting areas have been granted valid permits, which are valid until mid-June this year. The first authorisations shall expire in mid-June. I hope that by then the new Hunting Act will have entered into force and will be transferred on the basis of the new comprehensive Hunting Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U191	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U192	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! On two occasions you have skilfully digressed from our question and have not wanted to give an answer to who were in the Ministry of the Environment who, in 2009, decided to end the hunting ground arrangements. Yes, you claimed that this decision was made in the Riigikogu on 25 April. a, but in fact, a lot of problems arose as to why this conflict has become so great and why these differences have been rewinded and rewinded, just in 2009, when very fundamental decisions were made for hunting, which were not foreseen by either the development plan or the hunting law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-06_U193	Dear colleagues, I now look forward to taking an active part in the free microphone round. I ask everyone who wants to sign up after the hammer hit! No calls, no free microphone. Good fellows, thank you. Today's trial is over. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 19.05 a.m.
