ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the 10th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, can I have your attention now? With regard to the appointment of Alar Karis as Auditor General, we have a pleasant opportunity today to hear the oath of Auditor General Alar Karis. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U3	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! I pledge to remain loyal to the people of Estonia, the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order, and in accordance with my conscience, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, to carry out impartially all the duties for which I am obliged by the Office. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U4	Let's start by handing over the drafts and enquiries. I invite the representative of the Government of the Republic, Mr Aivar Rahno.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. Firstly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Convention establishing the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites and the Protocol amending it; secondly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol on privileges and immunities of the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites. The government is represented by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, in the process of dealing with these two drafts. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Penal Register Act, the Government being represented by the Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur; fourthly, the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws, the Government being represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U6	Thank you. Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We all remember quite well that, quite recently, we discussed the problems of higher education reform in this Chamber. In the course of this, there were different opinions and problems that remained hanging in the air, and there were those that were said that it would later become clear how things were going to go in practice. It is for this reason that a group of members of the Central Party Group have drawn up an inquiry into the education and research minister Jaak Aavikkogu. We want to hear from him estimates of higher education and the economic performance of students, indicators of student dropout and study load, as well as how successful students will be more stimulated in the future. We also ask about the inter-university roles and division of missions. It's not a question of what's been done exactly. After all, the Minister of Education and Science assured us that he would be happy to talk about the prospective activities that he has in store in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U8	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted four draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to accept them within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall forward it immediately to the addressee. Now some messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu. a Draft of the Riigikogu's decision of 27 March to amend the decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe', the leading committee of the Committee on Foreign Affairs; second, in the Group of the Estonian Central Party. a draft law on the amendment of the Income Tax Act, initiated on 27 March, Commission on Finance. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. The following drafts were submitted to the Committee on European Union Affairs on 28 March and 4 April. Firstly, a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting by criminal law and replacing Council Framework Decision 2000/383/JHA. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed a Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft directive. The deadline for the opinion is 11 April at 4 p.m. Secondly, the European Commission's draft regulation determining the quantities of auctioning for the 2013/20 greenhouse gas emission allowance period. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Economic Commission and the Environment Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the opinion is 11 April at 4 p.m. Thirdly, a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States concerning the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Economic Commission and the Social Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft directive. The deadline for the opinion is 11 April at 4 p.m. Fourthly, a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on minimum standards for improving the mobility of workers by improving the acquisition and preservation of supplementary pension rights. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Social Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft directive. The deadline for the opinion is 18 April at 4 p.m. Fifthly, the European Commission's questionnaires entitled "Consultation document on State aid in the agriculture and forestry sectors' and "Little Aid Regulation'. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Committee on Monetary Affairs to give an opinion on the positions and questionnaires of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the opinion is 18 April at 4 p.m. I have forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur and Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimitus. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14. Ladies and gentlemen, let us go to the adoption of the agenda. This week's agenda is on your desks, so I'll put it to the vote. Please vote! 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U9	Let's go to today's agenda, start answering questions. The first is the inquiry submitted by Priit Toobali, Ester Tuiksoo, Valeri Korbi and Tarmo Tamme, members of the Riigikogu on 27 February 2013 (No 302). A colleague of the speech chair, Priit Toobali, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. On 27 February this year, I, together with my colleagues, presented an inquiry from the Centre Party Group to Mr Rein Lang, Minister of Culture. It's about introducing folklore. Last summer, the State Chancellery announced a public procurement for the creation of a smart application to display national holidays and folk calendar dates, which would inform the user about the historical background and content of the holidays. It was also stipulated that the application should be linked to the user's Facebook account and that the user should have the opportunity to inform their Facebook friends about the deadline. On 12 February this year, the Folk Calendar's application was presented at the request of the State Chancellery and it was made public that 32380 euros were spent to create it. Since the folk calendar has undoubtedly a major role in our culture and it is also important to introduce it to the people of Estonia, we asked the Minister five questions on this subject. We're waiting for the minister to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U11	Thank you very much, my dear colleague. I would like to ask the Minister for Culture to respond to the speaker's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U12	Mr President, thank you very much. Good heirs and other members of the Riigikogu! I must say that I did not hear anything from Mr Toobal because the hall was buzzing, but I assume that the questions have not changed compared to what has been put on the paper.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U13	Mr. Minister, I am so sorry! Somehow after a week off, the hall really buzzes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U14	Spring! But now the first question: 'Did the need to introduce folklore result in the lack of awareness of the Estonian people about it? ' I could, of course, ask in a fishing mour, whether, in 2009, when the Tallinn City Government marked the historic settlements, it did so because people did not know where they lived. I don't think it was rather a celebration of historically established settlements to remind the stables and our guests of the history of the city. The smart app created by the State Chancellery is also designed to introduce and remember our folk tradition. In my opinion, this is an innovative and smart solution for introducing the historical anniversaries of Estonia to our countrymen as well as to our guests. In my opinion, it could be used by everyone, including members of the Riigikogu. I also take this opportunity to remind the members of the Riigikogu that this year is the year of cultural heritage in Estonia, which aims to introduce Estonia's cultural heritage and to do it in a holistic way, covering the heritage of both the mental and material heritage, both the national and international heritage, as well as our everyday living environment, the field of community activity and traditions, which are not directly protected, but are still valuable as local identity designers. The second question: "What else does the Ministry of Culture intend to do to introduce the folk calendar to the people of Estonia? ' I dare remind you that this inquiry concerns the undertaking of the State Chancellery. But within the framework of the Year of Cultural Heritage, hundreds of events take place in Estonia throughout the year. Introducing the folk calendar's anniversary is just a microscopic part of it. For example, the Estonian Open Air Museum organises a heritage race aimed at broadening the cultural heritage debate throughout Estonia. Our railway heritage will be introduced to the transport of south-west railway and Estonian memory institutions. It offers groups of students the opportunity to travel free of charge to exciting places on all their routes from March to May and from September to November. For example, you can visit the Toy Museum and Ahhaa Centre in Tartu, and there will be a night's fortress adventure in Narva. On 27 March, or on the day of the festival, the 95th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia and the Year of Cultural Heritage held an e-memory game, which was played more than 22000 times in Estonia. These are just a few examples. If I started reading all the events, paraphrasing the churchwarden of Oskar Luts 'Spring', I might say that the Lord's sun will be set up before I can complete the record of these events. That is why I recommend that you visit the address www.culture.info, which lists all the events that will take place during the start of the theme year, and make a suitable choice among them. You can't visit everything anyway. Question 3: 'What web solutions is the Ministry of Culture planning to develop to introduce folk culture? " Thank you for a very good question! A website www.parandiasta.ee has been developed in connection with the succession year. As long as the web doesn't recognize the dot letters, it's a spelling 'year of improvement'. It contains all the necessary information and activities related to the Year of Cultural Heritage. As I pointed out in the previous reply, the heritage year programme is located at www.kultuur.info. In addition to these two websites, the Ministry of Culture is currently not planning other web solutions. Question 4: 'How do you comment on the fact that it took more than EUR 32000 to create a popular calendar app? Don't you think it's too expensive? I would like to make a comparison that, for example, in 2011, the "Art Galleries" programme in Estonia allocated EUR 35416,61 to support the activities of art galleries. " Thank you for your question! I would point out that the public calendar application was commissioned by the State Chancellery, not the Ministry of Culture. You have therefore put the question to the wrong addressee. Who cares about the public procurement related to the folk calendar must contact the State Chancellery. At the same time, I will correct the false claim contained in the inquiry. In 2011, the Ministry of Culture distributed a total of EUR 83894 to art galleries, which is more than twice as many as the heirs know. Question 5: "How much money is going to be spent this year and in the future to introduce folklore? What are the future maintenance costs of the People's Calendar app? ' Thank you for your question, but also for these maintenance costs, I owe the answer, which must be asked by the State Chancellery. As far as the introduction of folk tradition is concerned, of course, some of the activities that would end at the end of 2013 due to the end of the succession year must be continued, but all this is already the subject of negotiations on the 2014 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U15	Thank you very much, Minister. Now the questions. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U16	Good minister! I do not have a question, but simply a comment on the plea raised in the fourth question. This information about how much the Ministry has spent on art galleries has been taken from your website. Maybe you'll let your advisors check it out. Turns out the website has the wrong information upstairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U17	I think you're confusing the year. We're talking about 2011. But I'll check.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U18	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U19	Let's go to the next question. This is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Priit Toobali, Tarmo Tamme, Aadu Musta, Lauri Laas, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Aivar Riisalu, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendijev, Jüri Ratas and Ester Tuiksoo on 20 March this year for setting the objectives of cultural policy (No 310). Once again, I would like to ask my colleague Priit Toobali of the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U20	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister! A number of members of the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry to Mr Rein Lang, Minister of Culture, entitled 'According to the objectives of cultural policy'. In February this year, the report of the National Audit Office was prepared for the Riigikogu "Special Report on the Financing of Culture." The aim was to provide an overview of how the Ministry of Culture's budget for the area of government supports cultural areas. Among other things, the National Audit Office drew attention to the fact that the Ministry lacks sufficient information to set cultural policy objectives and make strategic choices. In its development plans, the Ministry provides for the establishment of conditions for both professional and interest activities, but at the same time does not have a complete overview of the number of artists and state assets. There is no information needed to decide on the allocation of investments. The report specifically emphasises that the state does not collect systematic information on the economic importance of different sectors and therefore lacks information on the impact of cultural activities on employment, tax receipts, regional development, the image of the state and the impact of subsidies on the development of different sectors. The National Audit Office considers that the lack of all this information prevents the creation of new fundamentals of cultural policy. On 21 February, we asked the Minister four questions and we are waiting for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U21	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. Once again, I would like to ask the speaker of the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U22	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! There's a pretty good parliamentary debate here. Your first question is: 'The state control states that statistics on creative individuals are not enough. Why have no precise statistics on the number of creative individuals in Estonia been collected so far and when is it planned to be collected? ' Thank you for this question, but first of all, you could quote exactly what the National Audit Office refers to. The state has very precise statistics on creative individuals belonging to creative associations, as this information is provided once a year by creative associations when applying for creative support. In 2012, there were 4030 creative individuals in the creative alliances. The number of people paid by the state as well as the employment figures related to culture are also well known. As of October 2012, a total of 3834 people, including 2462 people, who had a higher education and could be classified as a "higher education cultural worker', worked in state institutions, foundations established by the state and legal entities governed by public law. According to the compendium Creative Institutions, 34500 people worked at Statistics Estonia in 2012. The comment of the National Audit Office concerns freelance creative persons who are neither organised nor part of any creative federation. Since these people do not have the obligation to register as a freelance creative person, the state cannot have precise information about this either. According to the Creative Persons and Creative Associations Act, a creative person is an author or performer within the meaning of the Copyright Act, acting in the fields of visual or applied art, stage design, audiovisual art, stage art, literature, music or architecture. Although cultural statistics, the quality of its data, data collection and analysis levels have been improved year after year, it has not yet been achieved by any European Union country to have an accurate overview of all freelance artists operating on its territory. My question is this: do respected heirs want a freelance creative person to register somewhere? The second question: 'The State Audit Office notes that the state should collect more systematic information on the economic impact of cultural and sporting activities. When can the next mapping of creative industries be expected to be published, and is it more comprehensive than what has been published so far? 'The state collects information on the cultural and sporting fields on a regular basis, in particular the Statistical Office, while also paying attention to the economic impact of these areas. In addition, Estonia is an active discussion designer at European level. Eurostat has launched a development project concerning cultural statistics and Estonia is leading the working group on economic indicators. The report was published last October. Methods for collecting cultural statistics and comparability of data from different countries are also a very important issue in discussions within the European Union institutions. When coming back to the collection of information in the field of culture and sport in Estonia, the Estonian Conjuncture Institute carried out a study on the regional economic impact of cultural and sporting events in 2011. It examined the impact of 20 cultural and sporting events on the economies of the regions. The Conjuncture Institute analysed the event budgets and interviewed 939 companies and 5508 visitors and participants. This is the most extensive survey ever carried out in this area in Estonia. It turned out that every euro contributed to the budget brought in an average of 4 euros. This is, of course, a simplified approach and, if anyone wishes to clarify, all the results of this study are available on the website of the Institute of Economics. This is quite an exciting reading and we have introduced it to cultural entrepreneurs as well as companies operating in an area where cultural entrepreneurs promote their activities. In addition, Statistics Estonia will carry out a modular survey of culture, or so-called cultural consumption, during the course of 2013, to collect quarterly data on the visitation of cultural events, the reasons for visitation, the patterns of behaviour of the people and the economic impact of events. These detailed data should be made public in the second half of 2014. As regards the mapping of creative industries, Estonia was one of the first countries in the European Union to do so. The first mapping of creative industries was carried out in 2005 when most of the countries of the European Union had not yet launched it. The results of the second mapping were published in 2009 and a third mapping is currently being carried out, which is expected to be completed by the Estonian Conjuncture Institute in July this year. The quality of data has improved with each mapping, but of course there is still much to be done in this regard. It is precisely the comparability of data from different countries that is important. Creative industries are generally an interdisciplinary field of activity that data cannot be obtained from one inquiry to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board or to the Commercial Register. Tens of round tables will be organised and peer reviews will also be collected to meet the full picture. The third question: 'The State Audit Office notes that investment planning has not taken account of operating costs and has not sufficiently analysed any other economic impact on the cultural sector. For example, what is the economic impact of building a new building in the Estonian National Museum on other cultural fields? ' Let's start at the back. The new building of the Estonian National Museum will certainly have an impact on both the cultural field and Estonian society in general. It is undoubtedly one of the most important cultural objects from the point of view of the state, which will become a business card for Estonia. The impact of the construction of this building on the state budget has been analysed very thoroughly. As regards the planning of investments by the Ministry of Culture and the analysis of their impact, I can assure you that, for all the investments made in recent years, we have taken into account their impact on the budget for the coming years, and this has also been taken into account in the state budget strategy. However, one of the conditions for applying for planned investments from the European Union's structural instruments is the preparation of a feasibility and cost-benefit analysis of the investment. This analysis has also been carried out for the new ERM building. The fourth question: 'The State Audit Office considers that the lack of information on the existing situation hinders the development of new fundamentals of cultural policy. Do you think the Ministry of Culture has enough information to draw up new fundamentals of cultural policy? ' Hopefully, the fundamentals of cultural policy will still be discussed and confirmed in the Riigikogu. The fundamentals of the new cultural policy have been largely based on proposals from industry representatives and on development needs, so it is based on peer reviews and therefore on sectoral statistics. We are also aware of the results of various studies, maps and statistics that were already referred to in the answers to previous questions. The need to further improve statistics and to move more towards knowledge-based policy-making is very clear in the working version of the document. In this context, it is clear that statistics and cultural databases are constantly evolving and evolving. At the same time, we believe that an excessive burden of data must be avoided, which could simply mean an additional bureaucratic obligation for cultural organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U23	Thank you, Minister. Any questions for the waitress? Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U24	Good minister! Since the subject of questioning is setting the objectives of cultural policy, you can ask a bit more about the report of the National Audit Office, which we have discussed here. In the ruins of the Pirita monastery in Tallinn, a very representative festival has been held for many years. While the Ministry of Culture has so far supported the organisation of this event, this year the Ministry has found that it is not at least worth the financial support of the event. What is the reason for this decision? Does it somehow coincide with our cultural policy that important events such as the Birgitta Festival will no longer be supported? The second festival that was decided not to be supported was in Narva. Why such decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U25	This is certainly a kind of cultural policy decision. But under no circumstances is this an underestimation of an event or questioning its quality. Absolutely not! The point is that the amount of the fund supporting music is very limited. Around 10% of this total budget has been asked for the Birgitta festival, and there is no reason to come to the Ministry of Culture to ask for this money in the financial economy of Tallinn. The city of Tallinn is such a wealthy municipality that it should be able to finance such an event itself without a state injection of money. There are a lot of excellent cultural activities in Estonia, especially on private property, which is not organised by such a strong self-government. In my opinion, it is very sensible to give money to a place where the municipality is not able to bear the entire budgetary burden. Tallinn will be able and certainly will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U26	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U27	Dear Minister, Many fine cultural events can take place because money has been received through the Gambling Tax Council. It is claimed that there is a draft which states that this possibility will disappear from 1 January 2014 and that this money will somehow be distributed to the ranks of the ministries. Do you see any danger here, or can we all be calm? The NGOs and many other associations have expressed concern about this and have addressed the members of the Riigikogu and also the committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U28	It is true that such a bill was on the move. He moved right where he was, maybe into the trash can. But there is, of course, a point. With regard to the distribution of money by the Gambling Tax Board, there are very legitimate questions about the transparency of the entire funding system. In this respect, I share the concerns of the Treasury Department. But this cannot be resolved by implementing such proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U29	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U30	Minister, thank you very much. I ask you about the amounts of culture that are allocated to local governments. As you know, in the past, there were rankings of objects and these objects were monitored. The Ministry's corresponding budget line had quite a lot of money, but unfortunately no longer. Are you of the opinion that such allocation of money in the interest of culture should be brought to an end at all or should they be restored if the state's financial position improves?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U31	Yes, in times of glory based on the internal consumption of our economy, such a list was indeed held in the Ministry of Culture. Each year's budget was adopted by allocating a certain amount to support investments in regional cultural sites. The Ministry of Culture is paying old debts to this day. I don't think such a thing makes any sense. Even if times are to get much better, which is not very likely in the next ten years, given the state budget receipts, it is not wise to support municipalities with an old currency of one million or two million kroons in the construction of cultural objects. In particular, if no precise cost-benefit analysis has been carried out to support these items. But we have European Union funds for which there is a debate on regional action to be held. In my opinion, the state could fund cultural objects that clearly have a cross-Estonian impact, not so much a community influence. Communities should still manage with their own resources for cultural facilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U32	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U33	Dear Minister, Since the question is about the objectives of cultural policy, I ask you, perhaps the minister, who is carrying out a reform party's understanding of cultural policy, such a question. Do you think that the prying out of Meelis Pai's office served a cultural policy purpose and has the Estonian theatre art won or lost with the departure of Meelis Pai?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U34	I propose to stay within the framework of questions of understanding!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U35	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U36	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We know that the development plan for cultural policy is currently being drawn up until 2020. If you look at this group, it includes the people of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Finance and the State Chancellery. When will there be a time when we can discuss these directions on a bit wider ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U37	If the assembly of this scheme were to depend on officials from different ministries and other authorities, it would have been a long time ago for this paper to be debated in the Riigikogu. We just chose the opposite method. We have sent the plan to a single circle in the cultural fields first and then received a huge number of proposals and more general ideas. On this basis, one document was drawn up, which we have now sent to the second round, and this circle has resulted in much more concrete proposals. They are currently being processed in order to obtain a document that will move to an inter-ministerial coordination circle. It is known to be a development plan for the government's cultural policy, not that of the Ministry of Culture. It is thanks to the involvement of people in different areas that we have received a huge number of conflicting proposals, including a great deal of educational and other proposals. It shows that people care about their culture. This is very positive, but it has significantly prolonged the whole process compared to what was originally planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U38	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Culture. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U39	We will go to the next question that has been submitted by members of the Riigikogu Lauri Laas, Viktor Vassilyev, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Kadri Simson, Peeter Võsa, Kalev Kallo and Marika Tuus-Laul on 20 February this year. The question is about the price of network services (No 294). I would like to ask my colleague, Lauri Laas, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U40	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The inquiry that I am about to make has been handed over on 20 February and has been carried out by eight members of the Riigikogu out of deep concern about the increase in electricity prices and network charges. The reason is simple: people simply cannot pay their bills and are in trouble. The content of the inquiry is as follows: In September last year, the Competition Authority coordinated the modification of Elering's network charges, according to which the average network fee increased from 1 January this year by 0,15 cents per kilowatt hour. The new average network fee is 1.28 euro cents higher than last year, or 13.3% higher. Since domestic consumers were also forced to switch to an open electricity market at the beginning of the year, people's electricity bills increased in a colossal manner. By the end of last year, the basic tariff for network services for domestic customers, excluding VAT, was 5.19 cents per kilowatt-hour, from 1 January it is 5.56 cents per kilowatt-hour. Thus, network charges alone have increased by 7.1% on the electricity bill of the household consumer. The public has not been enlightened about the reasons for this price increase. Consequently, we have four questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U41	Thank you very much, Mr Laas. I would like to ask the speaker of the honourable Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U42	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will answer your four questions. The first question: 'How ethical was it to raise the basic network tariff for people from 1 January, when it was already known that the transition to an open market would result in a wild rise in human electricity bills anyway? ' I will use this issue to clarify the legal framework for the formation of the network service tariff. We know that the provision of network services has a natural monopoly both in the transmission system and in the distribution system, and that the price of that service is not linked to the electricity market. The network operator's activities are governed by the Electricity Market Act and the Network Code. The network charges for the provision of network services are exclusively coordinated with the Competition Authority, based on Estonian law and partly on the quite detailed methodology and rules of the European Union's energy market. According to § 93 of the Electricity Market Act, the Competition Authority is independent in its activities and must only be governed by legislation in the performance of its tasks. This explains the first question about how network tariffs will be set in the Republic of Estonia. The second question: 'The increase in network charges for the last time is constantly justified by the need for additional investments. There is a strong feeling that, at some point in time, no investment in networks has been made, that the situation in this area is so catastrophic. If that has been the case, where has the money been taken from consumers' pockets been worn? ' First of all, it is important to understand that all the money that Elering, as a transmission system operator, receives from consumers, goes back to the electricity grid as investments. As of today, we can say that much more will be spent on this. For example, in 2013, Elering will invest EUR 209 million, while the total revenue from consumers will be EUR 55 million. Elering invests heavily using loan capital and to the extent that current income allows it. Why it's like that, a little bit later. Elering's investments can be divided into two. First, so-called traditional investments, which, given the size of the Estonian core network, amount to EUR 30 million per year at a reasonable level. This would cover the depreciation of the existing system. The second type is extraordinary investments, large investments, the obligation of which is based on the long-term development plan of the energy economy approved by the Riigikogu, which places Elering with the task of developing the core network of the system. In the case of Estonia, we are talking about three major investments in recent years. These are the energy connection to Finland, Estlink 1, the energy connection to Finland, Estlink 2 and the emergency reserve power station. All three activities have a major strategic importance in developing the Estonian electricity system, ensuring security of supply and energy security, and they have been approved by the Riigikogu. Estlink 2 is the most expensive of the three, with a total cost of €324 million and a second, up to 650 MW, energy connection will be created in addition to the existing energy connection to the Nordic electricity markets. It has to be completed in the second half of this year; the market should have it at its disposal from 1 January 2014. We are building Estlink 2 in cooperation with the Finnish core network. The financing of this project is divided into three. First of all, the Estonian side, or Estonian consumers, because the financing of the core network from the state budget or other such sources is prohibited by European rules and also by Estonian law. The other half is made up of Finnish consumers, and we have also been able to receive EUR 100 million in EU investment support to implement the project. Since, after the electricity market was created, the transmission system operator must also have strategic network connections, Estlink 1 had to buy out the core network, together with the opening of the market, from existing owners. To date, several companies from Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Finland owned it, and Elering, together with the Finnish core network company Fingrid, had to acquire it 100%. The estimated purchase amount is EUR 40 million. According to socio-economic studies, these associations are expected to benefit from around €50 million per year in the future. Therefore, network tariffs and electricity prices need to be looked at together. The increase in network charges for each household as a result of the construction of connections will enable it to protect itself against sudden price fluctuations and major electricity bills in the future. We know that an isolated electricity system based on some individual power plants is not something we could wish for both security of supply and the development of the electricity market. I do not recommend that the consumer protest against the investments that Elering is doing now. This is not only from the point of view of security of supply, but also from the point of view of the consumer's future costs. The well-connected North-Baltic electricity market should ensure the best price for electricity in the long term for consumers. The third investment is the construction of an emergency reserve power plant with a total cost of EUR 136 million. According to the Electricity Market Act, the core network is responsible for the security of electricity supply to consumers. One part of the task of ensuring security of supply is to maintain an adequate emergency reserve to ensure a balance between production and consumption in emergency situations. This situation will change from the middle of this year. The Estonian core network company had reserves so far, purchased from the Latvian core network company, but there has been a shortage of capacity due to the closure of the Ignalina nuclear power plant. The situation in the Baltic and Northwest Russian electricity system has changed; neighbouring systems are not able to guarantee sufficient reserves to the Estonian core network company since 2013. That was the case years ago, and as I said, the development plan for the energy economy provided for such an investment, with a time limit. In the event of insufficient capacity, the emergency reserve can only be guaranteed by the construction of additional capacity and the cheapest for society is the construction of a special power plant with relatively low investment costs. This is exactly what the emergency power plant for Kiisa is. Now a few comments on the so-called regular investments. They aim to ensure that substations and core network lines are in order. The need for reconstruction is primarily due to the fact that our substations and routes are very old, which in turn is due to two factors. Firstly, a large part of the existing network was built in 1950-1970 and it is high time to renew it. During the 1985/2000 period, almost no investments were made to reconstruct the existing network and equipment. They were made, but to a dangerously marginal extent. Currently, one third of Elering's substations are older than 30 years and about one fifth of the routes are older than 45 years. In the coming years, the main investments will relate in particular to the reconstruction of lines. If this were not the case, more than half of the power lines would be older than 45 years in 2020, if measured in kilometres. Of course, this can result in extensive and long - term power cuts. And, of course, there's no more expensive electricity than the lack of electricity. Next question: 'Elering has highlighted the construction of an emergency reserve station as one of his important investments. Why is the construction of the emergency reserve station the task of a network company rather than the task of Eesti Energia? ' I already answered that question, but I repeat. According to § 38 of the Electricity Market Act, it is the responsibility of the system operator to ensure the security of supply and balance of the system at all times. The system operator is the transmission system operator, or Elering, in the case of Estonia, under the same paragraph. In order to fulfil the obligation, the system operator must have at its disposal production reserves that can be used at any time. A more precise description of the reserves is set out in § 31 of the network code established by the Government Regulation. As the emergency reserve power plant is used only for a few hours per year, it is not economically justified from the point of view of the electricity producer to build a power plant which is standing most of the time and which must not be used by producers for any purpose other than the provision of reserves. It is therefore not possible for market participants to build suitable reserve capacities, given that they pay off under the conditions of the electricity market. The costs of ensuring the existence of emergency reserves as part of the cost of operating the entire electricity system are probably borne by system operators, both in the European Union and in the rest of the world. The fourth question is whether I consider online services to be a home cost to people or not. Electricity networks are infrastructures where both price and reliability are important for consumers. Since most of the network assets are quite long-lived, there may be a temptation not to invest in networks. It doesn't look like anything's gonna happen. For a while, the net's gonna work. In addition to other circumstances, the occupation ended, and the Estonian state was restored for precisely that reason in the 1990s there was no investment. Of course it's hiding your head in the sand. We may ask what happens if there is insufficient investment in infrastructure maintenance. I don't want to bully you here at all, but the result is to see on the streets of Tallinn. Would it be wise to let electricity grids fall apart? I don't think so. We must guarantee a reasonable pace of investment in order to keep the existing network, the entire infrastructure, at an acceptable and medium-quality level. Of course, it must be explained to consumers that network charges are essential. The competition authority accepts only reasonable expenses and this money does not go anywhere left or for any other purpose. Very little investment was made in electricity networks in the 1990s. This is why the capacity to upgrade network assets is inevitably greater now than would have been if it had been invested stablely years ago. Finally, I repeat: the large investments that have fallen to the present time, i.e. the construction and purchase of Estlink cables and the construction of the emergency reserve station, are essential for the security of supply to Estonian electricity consumers. This is why the Riigikogu has considered it necessary to confirm the development plan for the energy economy. The money we pay as consumers for online services will not be lost, it will be invested in improving the service we receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U43	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U44	Good Minister, the online service fee has really grown quite strongly in recent years. One problem is the amount of this fee, the other is transparency. In today's Postimees, my colleague, Kaja Kallas, recommends that the distribution network of OÜ be separated from Eesti Energia in order to increase transparency. At the same time, Eesti Energia has reacted very aggressively and accuses our colleague of making false statements. What do you think? Has the separation of the distribution network from Eesti Energia been mentioned? Indeed, there is a point in these mutual claims.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U45	Unfortunately, I have not read the entire post of a member of the Riigikogu Kaja Kallas; I am only familiar with this referendum on-line in the media. That's why I may be insufficiently informed. On the background, I can say so much that this issue was well above the level in the late 1990s, when the separation of retail networks in the organisation of the market was not considered legally necessary. This is a practice in many European countries. But in the 1990s, it was on our agenda. Some experiments were carried out in Läänemaa and Ida-Virumaa and this position was re-evaluated due to various circumstances. But I would like to remind you of an experience with very thorough economic calculations. In the early 2000s Lithuania was in a somewhat similar situation and it was also thought that cutting up the retail network would give the owner, or the state, or consumers, some kind of victory to the customers. In reality, this may not be the case. I am officially in the rights of the general meeting of Eesti Energia and know that this issue has never been raised in the company. At the same time, it is quite clear that there are two main interests related to Eesti Energia. First, so that consumers, customers of Eesti Energia, can get as cheap electricity as possible. Splitting Eesti Energia would undoubtedly result in the company's poor financial position. Or, in fact, 'worse' is not the right word, I will correct and argue that this would lead to a weaker financial position for the company, which of course also means its various transfers to the services offered. This is the case both for the network itself and for the group as a whole. If there is any wish, it can be discussed in future discussions, but the first step that I believe would lead to would be an increase in consumer prices. The second and very important question is whether, from the point of view of the State or of the owner, such a step will not reduce the value of the owner's assets as well as the owner's income. I think the answer is yes. However, I believe that this issue should be addressed, while analysing the practical impact on the company's customers and owners. I didn't have time to read this Postman, and I don't know if there's any alternative calculations behind Kaja Kallas's claims. But I think that the inevitable consequences of possible separation would be precisely that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U46	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U47	Mr. Minister! Obviously, however, very little has been explained to the consumer about how network charges will develop. It's more like saying it's a business secret. But, of course, the public wonders how electricity is still costing considerably more than electricity itself. If we add more national taxes, this charge will be two thirds of the final price, one third of the electricity itself. At the same time, it is known that Elering had a pretty high profit year last year. How much does it take to secure the power supply at home? Today, the electrical engineer in the Väino Rajang newspaper raised the question of whether there should be an upper limit on network charges. And why are these huge investments still being launched just the year that the electricity market opened up?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U48	I'll start at the end. I've already tried to answer that in my answers. Those enormous investments, which are calculated on a very long-term basis and which exceed the investments to cover depreciation in order to keep existing fixed assets in operation, are urgently needed, because the situation in the electricity system to which we belong has changed. I told you about the need for emergency reserve capabilities. Above all, it is indirectly linked to the Ignalina station, but also to the fact that we have so far purchased or leased emergency capacities. As far as electricity connections are concerned, they are directly related to the market. Of course, it would have been very good if we could have built Estlink 1 and Estlink 2 simultaneously - both of them completed five or seven years ago. However, the reality is that opening up the market and creating new connections, which should also benefit our consumers, is inevitably a little tied up like eggs and chicken. Our option for Estlink 2 was to build it in 2008 or 2009, when more or less it had been agreed. Then, however, we should have given up the European Union's investment subsidies. It was an exceptional measure offered by the European Union to overcome the economic crisis in order to encourage investments in energy which also affect Europe's long-term competitiveness. We managed to get that support, and we got Estlink 2 to start the construction. Otherwise, Estlink 2 would have had to be said no at the time. And no one questioned the project, claiming that this investment was bad for Estonia. Unfortunately, it ended up in the same time as opening up the market, which is a real shame. But I will return to the share of electricity consumption in our consumer basket, also bearing in mind the costs incurred by companies and the impact of electricity prices on the consumer price index. We've talked about this a lot here. If we were to approach the consumer in the long term, in my opinion, the price of electricity would have become much more expensive after a while if we had delayed this step.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U49	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U50	Well, just because you have a moral question, you might want to stay in this chair, but I'm just trying to get over it. As far as I know, Elering's head's salary was lower in the year ending than last year. But I wouldn't link the remuneration and motivation of the company's managers to the whole economic activity of the company. If you were concerned about the importance of this company's work, including investments to be made and many other things, you would know that Elering's functions have become much wider, the tasks have increased considerably. It is a very strong and very knowledge-intensive company. I am not talking about drivers; I am talking about the entire Elering Collective, whose task is to ensure the entire circulation of the Estonian electricity system. To criticize the monthly fees that have increased by some percentage points here, I think the question is a completely different opera.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U51	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U52	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We know how much the teacher and the doctor have, we can also talk about the wages of rescuers and policemen. Elering's chief's salary is also known. What about the average salary of Elering's employees? How much is it different from the average wage in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U53	Good question! If I'd known, I'd have looked it up. Right now, I owe you an answer. I'm asking you to be notified on duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U54	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. I'll call Marika Tuus-Laul. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U55	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Compared to March a year ago, the consumer price index increased by 3.5%. This was mostly due to housing costs, which accounted for almost half of the total price increase, of which two thirds were due to the increase in electricity prices. Electricity increased by almost 30%. So electricity has been running an uncompetitive price increase for some time. For the wealthiest, this is not a problem; these families pay about 3% of their family's budget for electricity. But the poorest are forced to give up about 10% of their income. Electricity, however, is not a luxury item that should be highly taxed. It's still a commodity we can't get through without. Or does our government want us to start heating more stoves and stoves and ruining the air again? Do we really have to go back in time? The most difficult thing to accept is the high network charges that are constantly increasing. Once again, how can the network charge still be higher than the electricity charge? And so much bigger! How can you charge more for electricity delivery than for electricity generation? Why can't we know exactly how these fees are to be charged? The minister described something here today, but we don't know anything exactly because it's made business confidential by law. However, in our neighbouring countries, this data is completely public. Why is the Electricity Market Act an exception to the electricity sector and we do not receive public information about it? Perhaps it is that the mysterious network charges go, as was written somewhere, to build a mine in Jordan? The fact that gas research is being carried out for this money has long been known to us. Elering made a record profit last year. According to the company manager Taavi Veskimäe, the results were the best over the years. The main question is what is the cost of this profit to the household consumer and how much of this profit goes to increase Estonia's security of supply. We don't really know that. Why, though, are these huge investments made this year, when the opening of the electricity market has already hit the wallet hard enough? The second question relates to the losses of the powerline, which are included in the network charges in Estonia. It would be logical for these costs to be reflected in the electricity exchange price. We have never had an answer to that question. Why is there no cap on the network fee, as Väino Rajang suggested today? In his view, these charges could be capped at a certain percentage of the electricity exchange price. But this is not wanted because the Estonian state directly pushes the increase in the price of electricity in order to patch up the budget holes with the tax money due to higher consumption costs. After all, network charges, electricity excise duties, VAT and renewable energy charges account for two thirds of the price of electricity, electricity itself only a quarter. However, how can we justify all this? Why are we paying the excise duty, or one tax, to the end of another tax, or VAT? It seems particularly cynical to pay more tax on the tax. This price of electricity is the political decision of the current government parties. At the same time, we know that the Bulgarians have expressed a serious protest against the fierce rise in the price of electricity and have overthrown their government. What other choice do we have? I invite all the people to Tammsaare Park on Monday, April 22nd at 8:00 p.m., and the Minister, too. We'll say the price of electricity in our attitude. After all, we do not have to agree with everything and worship ministers who favour constant electricity prices, raise taxes on home expenses and support a constant increase in home costs, even though before the elections, the price of electricity, heating and water was allowed to be reduced by up to half. IRL, is this the fulfillment of the promises made to voters? And, honourable government, how long will the withdrawal of huge dividends from public enterprises last? The total amount for 2013 is EUR 130.8 million. 73.48 million are withdrawn from Eesti Energia, confirmed by newspapers. Why do people have to pay the electricity tax when it comes back to them the other way around? At the same time, if we look at how much the state intends to give to Eesti Energia to expand its equity capital, whether as many millions or more, we will not find an exact answer. But it was fun to hear the minister get back from the power grids to the holes in the streets of Tallinn. The story is, however, that huge sums of Estonian state and European money will be put on the electricity grids, and the state has only allocated money to improve the holes in the streets of Tallinn so much that it will last three kilometres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U56	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like to perform? No, I don't. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U57	Minister, thank you very much. We once had a discussion about one question, because you suggested talking about it when it comes to network charges and network services. So today is the time to ask again. Speaking of Elering, you stressed that it was under the control of the Competition Authority. The press reported that Elering made a third of the profit last year. This gives the impression that the Competition Authority has not strictly controlled the company. In the case of the remuneration imposed, the investment needs have been taken into account, but in addition to this the profit of one third of the turnover is still very good! I mean, if I could get any business company half of it, she'd be swimming in gold. What is more, though, than this huge profit?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U58	If you noticed how much Elering invests, she invests over and over again than her annual cash flow. The Competition Authority must assess the company using a European methodology. It must assess the minimum return on fixed assets and the extent to which new investments are taken into account in the productivity of fixed assets. In other words, it is not surprising that some number is large or small. Given this set of assets that this company must manage in a sustainable manner, both financially and technically for a very long time, we should actually compare the cost of all this asset and the promised return of the company. In this context, Elering's economic performance has nothing to admire. And one more moment. As the Competition Authority will impose a tariff in anticipation, it will also have to predict Elering's liquidity and other economic indicators, including the volume of electricity transferred across borders and the volume of electricity transported via the network as a whole. Electricity losses and other costs must also be taken into account. These are annual forecasts that can be corrected, albeit not very much. The projections are based on historical multi-annual averages and other factors. If, in one year, these figures are higher, economic and electricity consumption and electricity trading has been more lively than forecast, then in the years to come, re-settlement will be made in favour of the consumer. For example, if the 2012 financial results are better due to the crossing of the border and more electricity passed through the networks, the consumer will win this next year if the return on fixed assets is higher than is allowed for such companies in Europe. In 2012, this rate of return was slightly higher than the average allowed, i.e. 7 7,5%. Our 2012 rate of return was around 8%. Consequently, in subsequent periods, the consumer will benefit from this refund. I would point out that it can always be the other way around: the amount of electricity on which Elering charges its fee may be lower than forecasted. In this case, the results are also worse. It will then be adjusted accordingly, as the cycle envisages.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U59	Please, colleague Tiit Tammsaar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U60	Mr. Minister! Today we have been talking about core networks all the time, but there is also the other half of the distribution network and electricity distribution. Of course, large investments and powerful transmission lines, but the tiny wire that comes to the consumer is very vulnerable. In my opinion, the proportion between investments in transmission and distribution networks is not right. I remember another blizzard two winters ago. On the second day after the electricity went out, the workers were finally lured in. Those were the two fine Narva men who did not know about the night or the hat line or the roads. We hauled them in our tractor, gave them a ladder, they sawed them off the line of the fallen tree, and we got the power back. It was 72 hours since the moment the power went out. Such a concrete example. But do you think we could have some kind of subscription fee? Why does the network charge depend on the electricity consumed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U61	Dear colleague, there is one minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U62	A very brief comment, as the questioner is a new member of Parliament. In general, we have also discussed the volume of investments in the distribution network in this Chamber. Your colleagues have criticised the considerable lack of investment in the distribution network in the 1990s. We can see the consequences of this storm now. That's one question. But your question concerned the basis on which to determine the net tariff. In my understanding, the law gives the distribution company a choice, but the Competition Authority must approve this choice. In other words, it is possible to choose whether the tariff for network costs is based on the electricity consumed or whether there should also be a subscription fee. I know that such thoughts also move in the heads of business leaders. However, I am not very sure that if they come out with this, we would all like that. In my opinion, there is a certain logic in this. The share of scattered settlements in Estonia is high, and many lines have been transported to summer homes and other buildings that are not used all year round. The electricity consumption of these houses is extremely low, but the line must be in order. This must be maintained in the same way as the solidarity principle for those lines where electricity consumption is much higher. In order to achieve greater fairness in covering jointly and several costs, subscription fees may not be a bad idea. The owners of summer homes who do not consume electricity in the countryside all year round will certainly protest against this. They would probably have to pay more if they did. As far as I am aware, there are no legal obstacles to this and companies may come up with a request to change the tariff. I would point out that retail operators are not one in Estonia, there are 30 and a little more. They're, of course, different sizes, the electricity supply is the biggest.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U63	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U64	Minister, thank you very much. It doesn't fit within the logic that with a turnover of 109 million, the company's profit is 34 million euros, as Elering had last year. At the same time, Elering has expressed its wish to acquire Estonian gas routes. Can you tell me what money Elering has planned to buy these routes? Isn't that the same money that's being cashed in from electricity consumers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U65	The short answer is no. However, this question concerns a completely different subject, namely the possible point of contact between the status of the gas transmission system and the status of the electricity transmission system. Elering has so far carried out only studies and analyses on this subject, the costs of which are not significant. In case Elering decides to make any such investment, this naturally requires the owner's acceptance, including a solution to how to finance the purchase. Since such a question has not come up on the agenda, there has been no reason to bother the Riigikogu. Should such a scenario ever occur, this requires the approval of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U66	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U67	Dear Minister, What moral assessment would you make of the situation where, on the one hand, we hear that Elering lacks money for investment, but, on the other hand, we read in the news that last year the board of Elering raised both its own and its board's salary by 14%? In which sector is such an increase possible? What is your assessment of this behaviour of Elering's leaders?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U68	The next question is the members of the Riigikogu Rannar Vasiliyev, Jaan Õunapuu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Kajar Lemberi, Sven Mikeri, Helmen Küti, Jaak Allik, Eiki Nestori, Kalvi Tul, Neeme Suur, Rein Randver, Kalev Kotkase, Mart Meri, Marianne Mikko, Karel Rüütli, Heljo Pikhofi, Indrek Saare, Lembit Kaljuvee, Rainer Vakra and Deniss Borodichi on 28 February. a request for information on the protection of consumers' interests in the open electricity market (No 304). There is already a colleague, Mrs Vasilyev, on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U69	Ladies and gentlemen, Twenty members of the Riigikogu who are members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Democratic Association have submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications concerning the protection of consumers' interests in the open electricity market. We will focus our enquiries on two issues, the price of the general service and the protection of consumers. As regards the first or general service price, the Electricity Market Act states that the general service is provided to us by a network operator or by a licensed seller appointed by the system operator. For the general service, the price of the calendar month of electricity shall be calculated on the basis of the hourly volume of electricity sold under the general service in that month and the weighted average price of hourly prices published on the power exchange. The price shall be supplemented by reasonable costs and a reasonable return on business associated with the provision of the service. As regards consumer protection, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council states that Member States are taking measures to protect final consumers and to ensure a high level of consumer protection, and in particular ensure adequate protection for vulnerable consumers. The Directive obliges the regulatory authority to ensure that consumers benefit from the efficient functioning of its national electricity market while at the same time promoting effective competition. As a result, 20 parliamentarians have mentioned two questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. The first question is this: "Does the fact that the choice of the general service provider is made without a less bid on the reasonable costs involved in the provision of the general service and a reasonable return on business comply with the principles of the Directive? 'The second question concerns the obligation for regulatory authorities, in accordance with Article 37 (1) (n) of the Directive, to help, together with the other authorities concerned, ensure that consumer protection measures are effective and enforced. We ask the Minister to present the measures that the State has taken so far to protect electricity consumers. In summary, we want to know whether the fact that we do not have competition in the provision of the general service is in line with the principles mentioned in the directive and, on the other hand, what are the measures that protect consumers that Estonian consumers can rely on and which the country has put into effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U70	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. I ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U71	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In response to this question, I would remind the Social Democrats that, as far as I am concerned, there was an inquiry into the Centre Party two weeks ago concerning the same subject, i.e. the control of the general service margin. I would recommend that everyone read this verbatim report, because we touched on a few important aspects there, which also apply to consumer protection. Now you two questions. The first question: 'Does the fact that the choice of a general service provider is made without any less bid on the reasonable costs of providing the general service and on reasonable commercial returns comply with the principles of the Directive? 'The Ministry of Economic Affairs considers that the general service principles laid down in the Electricity Market Act are in accordance with Article 3 (3) of the Directive, which requires Member States to ensure that all domestic consumers and small businesses, i.e. companies with up to 50 employees with an annual turnover or balance sheet total not exceeding EUR 10 million, are provided with universal service. This means that they are entitled to a fixed amount of electricity supply in their territory at a reasonable, easily and clearly comparable, transparent and non-discriminatory price. The control that is currently being carried out by the Competition Authority and which we discussed here two weeks ago with the Central Party Group is very much concerned about whether this general service sales margin is discriminatory or not. I believe that the control of the Competition Authority is certainly a precedent-creating and, in this sense, very interesting. To date, the supervision of the Competition Authority has not yet been completed. According to our Electricity Market Act, the so-called last responsible for providing universal service is the designated system operator whose network is connected to the electricity installation of the general service user. The price of the general service, together with the costs and profit margins associated with the provision of the service, depends on the number of users of the general service in the service area of each individual system operator and the price of the general service is subject to ex post control by the Competition Authority. I cannot answer whether or not the proposal for a less bid on your question is in line with the European directive. As far as I am concerned, at least during the debate on electricity market law, this issue was not raised. The entirely separate question is that if such a less-offering idea were to be developed further, if it were legally compatible with the directive, it would result in a result corresponding to the principles and in what way it would be different from what is known as the normal operation of the electricity market. This could be further explored in the future. The current response of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is based on the law in force. Question two. You are asking to present the measures taken to protect electricity consumers. The answer here is very long and thorough. Given the limited time, I'm not going to count everything. There are 11 different aspects of consumer protection measures in total when we are talking about the functioning of the electricity market. I'll mark those 11 areas. Firstly, supervisory issues. It has been said that according to the Electricity Market Act, compliance with the law, the functioning of the electricity market and the activities of market participants are supervised by the Competition Authority. The Consumer Protection Board monitors within the limits of the Consumer Protection Act. The Competition Authority checks whether the seller has provided the consumer with the required information on the environmental impact of energy sources, together with the bill, as well as information on consumer rights and options for dispute resolution. The Competition Authority will monitor the price of electricity sold under the general service, monitor the level of competition for opening up the market, including the prices charged to domestic customers, at least once a year, issue recommendations on the pricing of electricity sold to domestic customers. The Competition Authority will publish on its website information on consumer rights, relevant legislation and dispute resolution options. Another element concerning consumer protection is the right to choose and exchange the seller free of charge. Any market participant that has a network contract for its point of consumption can enter into an electricity contract, i.e. a suitable electricity seller. No fee shall be charged for the change of seller, either for an indefinite period or for termination of a fixed-term contract. Thirdly, the mandatory terms and conditions and information contained in the contract for the sale of both the network and electricity are related to the rights of the consumer, both as regards the supplier and the seller of the goods, and as regards the so-called contractual conduct. In total, ten mandatory conditions are foreseen. Naturally, as has been said earlier, both the Consumer Protection Board and the Competition Authority have an obligation to ensure that standard contracts take into account the consumer protection conditions laid down by law. The fourth round of consumer protection concerns the amendment of contracts. The fifth concerns the possible interruption of network connections. There are separate consumer protection clauses in a situation where the consumer is unable to pay for the service. Options are envisaged to protect consumers even if they have default or debt to the electricity seller and the system operator. These provisions also have a consumer protection aspect. Sixth, entry conditions. The network operator must publish the connection terms on its website. The seventh aspect of consumer protection is the obligation for both the system operator and the electricity seller to provide and publish information and regulation. The consumer must be informed and, where appropriate, the public must be able to verify. The eighth is the provisions relating to the technical organisation of the electricity market, which are also in the interest of consumers. The system operator shall be obliged to set up and manage the data exchange platform in such a way that the market participant, who is legally obliged and entitled to do so, can provide the data in a timely manner and receive it on an equal basis in a timely manner, and the consumer must be able to use the data relating to him and assess his consumption profile. Consequently, the most advantageous contract for the consumer can be developed. The ninth component in consumer protection concerns the general service. We talked about this, that the general service is available at any given time in the Republic of Estonia, according to certain principles, if the consumer does not enter into a contract. The tenth aspect concerns the out-of-court settlement of complaints. A little longer than that. The Competition Authority shall resolve disputes between market participants arising from breaches of obligations under the Electricity Market Act and the legislation established on the basis thereof, decide to initiate expropriation proceedings, verify that market participants comply with the requirements laid down in the Electricity Market Act and the legislation established on the basis thereof and comply with the relevant obligations and, where appropriate, make mandatory arrangements for market participants. The Consumer Protection Board settles disputes within the limits of the competences laid down in the Consumer Protection Act. In the event of a dispute arising from a merger contract, network contract or electricity contract, the consumer shall have the right to lodge a complaint with the consumer dispute committee. The eleventh is the aspect of livelihood. Income support is paid on the basis of Chapter 4 of the Social Welfare Act. In Estonia, as in most other Member States, special tariffs are not provided for underprivileged consumers by special law, but their support has been resolved through the Social Welfare Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U72	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's continue with the questions. Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U73	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Minister, I will specify our first question. Indeed, the precise procedure for supplying electricity to the general service is not in the directive, but there is a requirement to ensure that all electricity undertakings have access to the national consumer society. It could be said that electricity distribution is currently restricting this access, and the restriction is contrary to the current Directive. It follows that a call for tenders should be organised for the provision of the general service, in which all tenderers can participate equally. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U74	You had a number of statements, but I would stick to the focus of the question, i.e. whether a procurement is required to ensure the general service, or if the text of the law in force in Estonia is applied, which says in the expression verb that according to the Electricity Market Act, the last responsible supplier is the network operator whose network is connected to the electricity installation of the general service user. In other words, your idea, which I am trying to understand more precisely right now, would mean that someone would have to create a separate channel for electricity sellers in different parts of Estonia, so that, under the terms of the law, the supply of electricity to consumers who do not enter into a contract would be guaranteed. I'm asking, what's the point? When I look at the regulation of the law, the most economical should be, in my opinion, the offer of the same network operator. If someone else is able to offer it at a cheaper price throughout Estonia, it would be an interesting case. Whether the current margin notified by the largest retail operator meets the requirements of the law, we do not yet know. I hope that the Competition Authority will give a thorough approach to these principles, which the Estonian law provides for.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U75	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U76	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Once, when we discussed the issue of income support and electricity bills issued by Eesti Energia, it was information that nearly 500 people had not yet received their electricity bill. Weeks ago, on television, some 100 people were running through the information that they had not received their electricity bill. On that occasion, you replied that if the potential formatter of income support has not received the bill, then let Eesti Energia ask for it from there. All of this may be right, but you, as a general meeting, should still be interested in why these people have not received the bill. Have you asked me that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U77	Yes, we have asked the Ministry of Social Affairs to see whether it is necessary and possible, as a result of this transition, to provide any recommendations and guidance to the social assistance services. I assume they've solved this issue. At the time, when we spoke to you outside the hall, this request was made. Similarly, I made a comment to Eesti Energia, which, by the way, I am no longer at the general meeting, and I would really like to hope that, in the case of these hundred or thousands, these technical problems will be behind us today. Opening up the electricity market is a very difficult process; it affects a large number of people and is difficult even from the point of view of this company. Now, let's imagine, the company has a sales contract of 400000 and it deals in public with the fact that a hundred consumers, at first a little more than a hundred, have not come home with the bill. This is an embarrassing case, but there may also be some electronic inaccuracies in e-mails, a number of other cases where the figures have simply not moved to the right place and the result is this. Once again, there is the impression of disregard for consumers, but I certainly do not suspect this in this company; they are trying to take a very careful look at the criticism of consumers. And listen, a company that doesn't want to bill a consumer is the last thing one doesn't want to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U78	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U79	Thank you. You mentioned that the responsibility of the system operator to provide a general service in its area is in any way incompatible with the organisation of procurement or competition. I wouldn't agree with that. In principle, this would mean that those undertakings that currently provide network services would be tendered out in one form or another for the provision of general electricity services in their region and awarded a contract to the winner. This would not in itself be a huge bureaucratic process in Estonia, but competition would probably ensure a more favourable price for a large number of people who, for one reason or another, have remained a consumer of the general service.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U80	Thank you. In that case, the law should still provide for such a thing. It still makes a lot of sense to me right now. I would point out that you have this procurement issue or you have come up with it because of the high margin. As I recall the discussion of the Riigikogu at the time, either in the Committee on Economic Affairs or in the large hall, the principle that a consumer who does not enter into a contract with any seller should not be discriminated against, but, by law, he has a contractual relationship with a network company. In my view, the fact that the sales margin of one company in particular currently exceeds the market sales margin is of a discriminatory nature. But I am not shaping the legal practice in this area, which is why I am interested in monitoring the supervision of the Competition Authority and I look forward to what position it takes and what position the market participants will take. I believe that it also has a greater meaning for the'margin' issue of competition between sales companies. Although the margin in itself is a rather small part of the final balance, each cent is still important, which is why the sales margin applied for by the general service company will certainly create a ceiling, let's say, which will then be targeted by competitors later on in the sales market. In other words, I want, before we really start rethinking the general service regulation, which cannot be ruled out, maybe it has some kind of idea, to get the Competition Authority's approach to these principles, which are very clearly enshrined in the law. Yeah, I admit these principles aren't very undisclosed. But let me ask you again, what does it mean, in this case, 'at a non-discriminatory price'? In other words, there must still be legal practice, and this legal practice will ultimately be subject to the supervision of the Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U81	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is likely that the number of universal service recipients in the open electricity market has been steadily reduced by around 30%, now around 20%. Somewhere I even read that there are 17% customers who consume general services. The general service price is known to be based on the stock exchange price of the previous month and a reasonable return on business. My question: how long will it be for the Competition Authority, whose Director-General said at the beginning of February, that it should undertake this investigation and decision-making? And the other half of the question: why was this reasonable business profit not regulated as soon as we went into the open market?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U83	I don't know how long it's gonna take the Competition Authority to answer that question. I know they're working on that. I have no right to interfere and set deadlines for him. I assume that, for the Competition Authority, too, this is an unconventional supervision, which is also the first time for them. Therefore, the time delay here is, if we can call it that, perhaps acceptable. But as for your claim that regulation may be a mistake, I am not so sure about that. Once again, the principles that the consumer's approach must meet in the case of the general service are, in my opinion, sufficiently clear. If you ask if anyone had any ideas on how to rewrite these principles in more detail in the draft law, it wasn't very. I think that these principles must be enshrined in practice, including this non-discrimination, in comparison with consumers who buy electricity on the basis of normal contracts. If you have any proposal to improve the law, I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U84	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U85	The next question is the members of the Riigikogu Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Lauri Laas, Peeter Võsa, Tarmo Tamme, Priit Toobali, Yana Toomi and Aivar Riisalu on 25 February. a request for information on the disclosure of state secrets and the embezzlement of funds by the prefecture (No 298). Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U86	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Yes, it's an inquiry into the disclosure of state secrets and the embezzlement of the prefecture's money. One specific case has been taken as the basis. In fact, at the beginning of this year, the media reported that an ex-husband of the South Prefecture's drug crime service was accused of misappropriating the prefecture's assets, publicising state secrets and forgery of documents and using falsified documents in 2006-2011. On this matter, the State Attorney Laura Vaik stated that the more accurate information on the charge is protected by state secrets and that the trial that started on 17 January 2013 at the Tartu County Court has also been declared closed. As a result, we have a number of questions for the Minister. How can it be explained that more and more members of the management of the PBGB will be brought to justice? Is there a flaw in the weaknesses of the promotion system or in the lack of internal control? Second set of questions. Why are the PMA staff involved in criminal matters hidden from the public? What state secret may lie in the misappropriation of the property of the prefecture, the disclosure of state secrets and the counterfeiting of documents and the use of falsified documents? The third question: who bears political responsibility for the increasing number of corruptions detected in the PBA each year? I must add that there is already a certain experience for me and my colleagues, who are making these enquiries with me. We've been practicing our speech skills here on Mondays for several weeks, holding a fabulous debate with Mr. Minister of the Interior. According to our calculations, in the case of some enquiries, he will answer all questions, if there is anything nice to report, in the case of some inquiries, he will not answer any questions at all. This situation is about fifty-fifty, half of the questions he answers and the parties do not answer. We now have an additional interest in every question that we have in getting answers to several questions. I think that all the listeners will be able to check whether the Minister will answer the questions or not. Another thing that we are particularly interested in in this question. How is it possible that in some cases, when there is doubt, one or another will be charged with a large watch and the person will be baptized as a criminal as it is now in Narva, for example, day by day, week by week, month by month, but when it comes to a job or service, everything is much more modest? The amount is 15,000, suspected of tampering with documents and the use of falsified documents, but everything is a state secret. In this way, you can very nicely avoid any scandal, any discussion of the subject and simply push it under the carpet somewhere. The less people know about it, the better for the big bosses. We cannot agree to this. We hope that the Minister will provide substantive answers to these questions, and we hope that this will also benefit the Estonian state in terms of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U87	Thank you very much. Please respond to the speech of the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for your questioning. You've asked three questions, but I'm afraid I can't please you. In many ways, what is being answered also depends on what you are asking for. If you are asking about matters that, as in this case, are the case in a particular criminal case and the trial has been declared closed, that is precisely the fact that the hearing is closed. It's not because it's closed to the public, but you can still access information in this remote control, which is also public. There's a reason for everything, and I'm happy to explain it. First of all, you ask why the leading employees of the PBGB are increasingly being brought to justice. This is a completely arbitrary estimate of the position. Is 'one more' positive in your wording, or is it negative? For some reason, I tend to think that this last option is true for you, but I would definitely try to turn it into a positive. The fact that such cases are discovered is, in fact, an increasing level of police internal control, which shows that the state is capable of self-cleaning. This also concerns the law enforcement system. I believe that this is an extremely important development that has taken place in Estonia in the last five-seven years, and which has resulted in, in essence, in such abuses, offences that have taken place in our legal system, for example, in the judicial system. I can say so much that police officers' crimes, especially those related to corruption, are generally, as you know, hidden by nature, hidden by nature, which are generally not subject to complaints and declarations to the police. Their discovery is clearly proportional to the resource, attention, and hours of human work being put in it. Such crimes can only be detected through very effective and systematic internal control procedures, as well as through surveillance and criminal proceedings carried out by the PPA's Internal Control Office. So my assessment is clear: the fact that such cases can be brought to light, discovered and dealt with shows the strength of our law enforcement system, not the other way round. Secondly, you are asking why the public is hiding from the PMA staff in criminal matters. You're bringing an example of a case where the trial has been declared closed. The police officer mentioned in the inquiry was directly involved in the organisation of surveillance activities because of his duties, and the crimes in which he is suspected are largely related to surveillance activities. Surveillance, however, is a state secret by law. Consequently, the court proceedings referred to in the inquiry have also been declared closed and, as a result, the information on the crime has been limited. Question 3: 'Who do you think is politically responsible for finding more and more corrupt crimes in the PBA every year? ' As I said, I believe that this shows that the country has also become more capable of hiding crimes of an extremely difficult nature, such as serious corruption crimes, when they are discovered. This is only a positive trend. In 2010, the PPA's Internal Audit Office charged the prosecutor's office with five members of the PBGB for crimes related to corruption, with three in 2011 and seven in 2012. Given the size of the staff of the PBGB, it is, of course, the question of everyone's assessment of whether this is a large number of persons. As I said, I think it is a good thing that the police organization brings up its own problems and is able to clean up internally. It is also a strong internal control system that ensures that such cases are not overlooked. Police officers clearly perceive that their activities are under strong supervision, as transparent as possible, and that they are being treated with full seriousness. In order to raise awareness of the risks of corruption, the Central Criminal Police and the Defence Police Officers certainly have a role to play. Of course, the aim is to prevent such cases from spawning, but unfortunately it has not entirely succeeded even in the world's largest and most powerful democracies, not to mention other countries, not to mention the comparison, for example, with the countries of Eastern and Central Europe, with which we can most directly compare ourselves. Finally, we can ask here, rhetorically, who is responsible, according to your question, for the prosecution of three judges in the Republic of Estonia in 2010, for example, in the course of one year, that they were likely to have committed corruption offences. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U89	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. Let's continue with the questions. Colleagues Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U90	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! That answer was clear. Since the gentleman was involved in surveillance, the trial is closed, it's a state secret. Although, of course, it's questionable who he was stalking when he was a corrupt. Maybe he was doing some kind of reverse activity. Could this lead to any new research on the people he was chasing? Why, though, is there a secret to the possession of the property of the prefecture? As I understand it, there is no state secret about what he had there for EUR 15,000. So what's the secret now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U91	Thank you for your question. These are probably different crimes that have been committed in different episodes. As you rightly point out in your inquiry, this court proceedings only started on 17 January 2013. This is an ongoing procedure which has come to court. As a result, it would be very difficult, unfortunately impossible to deal with these different nuances, it would certainly be interesting for many people, including me, concerning both the ownership of property, the disclosure of state secrets and the counterfeiting of documents. We can probably assume that these acts are interrelated. As a result, the whole trial has been declared closed. It is precisely the court which, when considering the facts, decides whether there is sufficient public interest and, in addition to the public interest, whether there are legitimate grounds for a hearing being public, or whether there are clear considerations as to why a hearing should be held in camera.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U92	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U93	Madam President! Colleagues! I took three minutes of extra time. I don't know if you need it, but I'd like to talk to you about so much and maybe consult. Maybe it'll take a long time, maybe really short. I would like to talk about human dignity, about how much it costs in Estonian society today. I'm not going to hide, this unfortunate deputy mayor of Narva, who is currently being tried in Narva, is an old friend of mine, an old friend of mine, I know him very well. I know his family, I know his achievements, and I know he's an absolutely honest person. I know how this whole thing has happened. Just in case, I'm talking about it because maybe people who aren't familiar are listening to us right now. The man repaired his apartment, it was at Christmas, went to buy building materials, and like everyone else, he got a Christmas discount, a discount. This concession was his fault, it's like some kind of power trade. It is about EUR 500. It was, of course, a purely political game. He was arrested, arrested, sat for 11 days, and the family didn't know where he was. After all, it was offered to sign the statement that you're leaving the deputy mayor's seat, then you'll be out next day. At a certain point, he signed that paper and, indeed, in 11 days, that detention ended. He knew that since he was Russian, middle party and narcissistic, he would definitely be kept there for six months in the same chamber without any need for justification. I see what's going on, I see how people are accused, including honest, active people who just need to be shot down from the top of power. They are too good employees for their city, they cannot be harmed, they cannot be harmed by the same government that keeps talking about what is in their eyes Ida-Virumaa. Yes, he is disloyal, all the time, for the last 20 years, in Narva for at least 15 years, in Kohtla-Järve this history is longer, supported by the Centre Party, because we are the ones who have pulled their region out of both economic and social August. What August I'm talking about! It was a ravine, where we were in the 1990s. There is now a war against us, and everything is being used in this war: the hood, the prosecutor's office, the police, the court. We are now talking about the price that a person's dignity really costs. How much is it that a person has worked honestly for 30 years, that he has never been presented with any complaints? Right now, his good name is desecrated. It's full. I believe that this court will end with Mr Filipov's victory, I just can't imagine how this could be any different. It would seem funny to you if I told you here that every one of you who has a discount card in the Savings Market or somewhere else is just like he can be arrested and told that you are involved in something when you get that discount. It's happening in our country. But then, when it comes to a PMA employee, the subject is terminated momentarily and very quickly, no one is interested in having a long time attached to the clock. That's what happened to that last case of kapo. We'll talk about this in the next question, I'll leave it a little bit later, but that's also true in many other cases. The Minister is talking here about the fact that it is very positive when these crimes are discovered. Yeah, of course it's positive. But explain it to me, Mr. Minister! The figures you mentioned apply to executives, I think you said three, five and seven. This is about 15 cases in three years, and there are 200-300 people in this circle, against whom these crimes of corruption have been prosecuted. Over 200 people have worked in Narva City Government for the last six years. A total of one and a half cases have been brought before the courts in connection with the incorrect performance of their duties or the infringement of the law. On one occasion, it was purely a person I would never protect. The second case was, remember, I told you how one of our former deputy mayors, who worked too well and who needed to be put on hold, gave birth prematurely to a sick child as a result of being simply tortured before that year and a half. When the child was reanimated and sat next to his child, his staff came to question him. It's happening now and it's being seen. It can serve no matter how it is to fight corruption. This is not about fighting corruption. Most of it is simply a political settlement. Once again, the protection of state secrets making all these processes closed is another feature of the police state. One thing is clear: use the appropriate structure to fight and suppress other political parties, their competitors. The second is not to release any negative information about these structures. Well, I'm glad, we'll analyze it with you a little later, with a number of questions that actually sounded like an answer, and we'll take a good look at this verbatim. But I do not think we have a debate on really important issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U94	No further questions. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U95	The last question is the inquiry submitted by Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu on 26 February concerning the lack of internal control in the kapos (No 300). Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U96	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. The inquiry is about a lack of internal control. We're talking about the fact that lately, the corruption-related accusations of several employees of the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry's sub-office have been getting into the news. For example, on 19 December 2011, Indrek Põder, an internal security officer of the Defence Police Department, was detained on suspicion of bribery. Some time later, Harju County Court confirmed the penalty agreement, and the person was sent to prison for repeated bribery for four years. According to the media, hundreds of thousands of euros worth of residential land worth approximately 13000 square metres and 9.68 hectares of land-retrieving land have been registered in the name of an employee of the Defence Police Department in the municipality of Mõniste in Võrumaa. The person himself lived in Saku, in old money several million kroons worth of even houses. Officially, this house belongs to his wife, who left the police department as the chief commissioner of internal control when the scandal broke out. This family used the expensive R-class Mercedes family car next to the trade cars, with sales prices starting at EUR 60000 for a brand new car. In December 2011, the Director General Raivo Aeg said to Kuku's radio morning programme that it was about hundreds of thousands of euros in bribery. According to the information available, it is not clear how the repeated breach of law and the consequent increase in property wealth did not stand out in the administration, even the head of the Ministry of the Interior. As a result, we have the following questions for you, Mr Minister. The first question: 'The rapid enrichment of a staggered Kapo employee took place in front of his colleagues. They say to prevent a major crime, it must be discovered early. Didn't colleagues/you mean that this kind of enrichment is a little strange for a member of the Defence Police Department? ' The second question: 'Please explain how it has been arranged for the police to be recruited. Are the people who go to work there going through some kind of psychological expertise? The third question: " Have corrupt officials usually dealt with their illegal activities alone without involving any of their colleagues? On what basis is your conviction based? ' I'm sure the answer is yes, he dealt with it alone. Question 4: 'How many kapo employees have been fired from the Defence Police Office since 20.12.2011? ' In this regard, you could talk about a strange situation in which a person works in the same line of work as his or her spouse. Let me get this straight, if the Minister wishes, isn't he going to talk about it too? Is it really the case that one of them checked the other according to his office? If this is the case, then it is really interesting whether it is the current system that close relatives, specifically spouses, are working in the same position. How is that even possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U97	Thank you. Please respond to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for your questioning. You have asked four questions. First of all, you are asking about the rapid enrichment of a corrupt employee, whether such enrichment was not a bit strange for the kapo employee. All I can mention is that, as you know, the Department of Defense has revealed the illegal activities of Indrek Põder in the course of its internal control. This procedure took its time. I certainly agree with you that, of course, it would always be the ideal thing for such individuals to work in one organisation, no criminal or security authority at all, and no such violations would be committed. I totally agree with that. It is certainly strange when someone does something like this, but unfortunately, countries with a much longer rule of law tradition than us are not protected from such cases. It has also happened in the security authorities of these countries that, unfortunately, such individuals have found their place and acted there for a certain time. In some cases, that time has been quite long. I am talking about cases of advanced Western Europe or the United States of America in the 20th century. Unfortunately, Estonia, as a small country, is not protected from such cases either. Last year, as we know, the Defence Police Department itself was able to bring to light two such cases, which, in my opinion, show the very serious job and internal capacity of this authority to detect violations. It has not been easy for them, and it certainly was not easy for Estonian society or for the administration of the Ministry of the Interior, but I think that this situation has come out quite well. The experience is learned, the right conclusions are drawn, and then you can only go on stronger. The second question: 'Please explain in more detail how recruitment to the Defence Police has been organised. 'In accordance with the principles of recruitment and internal control of the Defence Police Department, all persons applying for employment in the Defence Police Department shall undergo security checks necessary for access to state secrets and classified external information. This will include an in-depth review of the candidate's previous background and suitability, including specific information procurement methods and various psychological tests. The staff of the Defence Police Department already in service shall be subject to regular follow-up and other necessary internal control measures. Question 3: "Have corrupt officials usually dealt with their illegal activities alone without involving any of their colleagues? On what basis is your conviction based? ' My answer is that in criminal proceedings against Indrek Põder, his activities were examined in a comprehensive and thorough manner, and it did not reveal that he had accomplices in his illegal activities in the Defence Police Department. The last question is how many employees have been fired from the Defence Police Office since 20 December 2011. The Defence Police Department has not completed any employment relationship on the initiative of the employer since 20 December 2011 until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U99	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, a question from my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U100	Thank you, Madam President. I'm very happy to say with you that everyone else is honest, only Moose is a crook. The rest of them have been to his farm land several times, and the press wrote a lot about it. It was written about how houses rose up there, how people went hunting there or making shish-bread, how they couldn't say it, and how he got rich. Is it a normal moral climate when Raivo Time speaks of hundreds of thousands of euros of bribery, it is seen, it is obvious, and it is not paid any attention until the end? In such a case, is there real reason to be so happy?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U101	Thank you for your question. I dare say that my answer did not sound like joy, but was a statement that, unfortunately, a small country like Estonia is not protected from such incidents in a security institution. In 2012, we witnessed the emergence of two such cases, which were brought to light, discovered and dealt with by the defence police themselves. There is nothing to be delighted about, but it is very important to stress that the Estonian state has reached the point that our law enforcement system is capable of internal cleansing itself, and I think this is a sign of strength. No one can ever give a final guarantee of 100%. I think that this will also be done to you by no other developed Europe or by any other country in the world, which we consider to be our role model, but by very thorough checks and monitoring of people's activities at different levels everywhere. Let us not forget that our security authorities are the most direct object of both an indirect and a direct attack on the respective structural units of countries that are not friendly to us. The unambiguous existential goal of these institutions and organisations in other countries is to weaken our security authorities as much as possible, try with various means and methods to try to network the staff of our security authorities and, of course, to harm the entire Estonian state. We must take into account that this is not just a situation where one or the other official is falling off the path of justice, but there are very specific forces that work every day to influence the staff of our security authorities and our entire security system. So these threats and risks are everyday. It can only be countered with very clear measures and steps. I think it is only here that our defence police and, in my opinion, the staff of other criminal authorities who have contributed, for example, to the detection and processing of this case. As we know, there was cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board. So these people should be encouraged, further encouraged, which I am sure I will do today while on the remote, and I have done before. Through such cases, we become stronger as a country, not weaker. Of course, there is no reason to rejoice that such incidents occur at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U102	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U103	Thank you. Minister, could you expand our knowledge: who controls the declarations of economic interests in the Defence Police and does this check work or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U104	Thank you for your question. It's still working. Also in the case you are referring to here, in this very Indrek Põder case, many facts have been examined concerning his financial situation. Some of the property has been acquired by that person by unlawful acts, some of the property at his disposal has, as far as I am aware, been acquired by another means which do not concern his unlawful conduct. So putting all things together may not be quite right. The ongoing monitoring of economic interests is carried out on behalf of the Defence Police Department staff as well as other senior officials at all times. I think it is important that we can move forward in order to prevent such cases from happening again.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U105	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U106	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll tell you how we really do things. One and a half years ago, it turned out that the two characters of the Narva Alexander Church were a member of the board and the other was, I might be wrong about his profession, but also related to the affairs of the Alexander Church, were suspected of spending large sums of money, both in the city and in the state. Mr Tarmo Tammiste, Mayor of Narva, was the first to learn about this. Upon learning of this, he wrote a statement, accompanied by receipts with forged signatures, and forwarded it to the Defence Police Department. The police came back with a statement that this case did not give rise to the theft, etc. Then the mayor of Narva turned to the regular police of Mr. Tammiste, the economic police. Guess which one he got exactly the same answer. The Foundation was then audited and the Supervisory Board asked the members of the new Board to pay particular attention to these falsified documents. We have a detailed overview of who and what has been forged. After that, the foundation, of which the Estonian state is a member, approached the police and only on the third occasion the open criminal case was registered for about 1 million kroons. That's how we do it! If, in fact, something really happens and a person makes a statement about it, there is nothing going on, just some pressure when the state's authority comes to the aid, even though it has been proven that the signatures were forged. Why didn't the C.P.D. want to deal with it? At the same time, we also have funny cases. Remember how, on the day before last, it was on 18 February, when Mr Vaher and I discussed an inquiry, Mr Mart Nutt asked if there were any signs that the neighbouring countries were in the process of organizing elections there somewhere in Ida-Virumaa and providing support, etc. I suggest you take a look at the verbatim. The minister then replied that yes, there have been cases like this, and you will see what will happen this year. There haven't been any cases, we just got lied here. But what was he talking about this year? Listen, colleagues, this is a very interesting story. When I'm in Narva, I stop by town hall or council almost every day. I was just in the office of the Chairman of the Council when he was called from the Russian Consulate of Narva. I was just sitting next to him and didn't listen specifically, but I realized from the story that he wanted to talk about the election and invited the chairman of our council to visit him. The Chairman of the Council promised to stop by the next day in the morning. We here are already such end-stage politicians, but in the local government, the people cannot imagine the intrigue and all the horrible things that are being used against us. When he got off the phone, I said, "Can you imagine someone listening to you right now? 'Yeah, I know, this Consul General is the kind of person who doesn't even know how many members of the Narva Council are. In the meantime, he asked how much was in the coalition, whether the 36 others were in the coalition. We only have 31 members. I asked the Chairman of the Council: 'Do you have any idea that this verbatim is somewhere, your speech has been recorded, tomorrow a picture will be taken of you marching into the consulate after the first cry. Can you imagine with which speech the Minister of the Interior will come to the Chamber of the Riigikogu in early October to tell us about this and start bringing these cases to light? You may have had a good conversation with the same consul, but you're going to be a side-state agent. ' The chairman of the council didn't go to the meeting. A few days later, an ad hoc employee stopped by and asked, "Why didn't you go to the consul, weren't they? ' That was the first bang. The second was the Mart Nut question and the minister's answer. This is how these provocations are prepared. It takes strength, it takes time. Relevant agencies, bodies involved in the political struggle. Mrs. Ergma sighs behind me, it's hard for her to hear. But you have to admit it, it's actually the way you order and you order dirty work, very disgusting work. I think that's what this is about. They just don't have time, they have other tasks, they have other goals to achieve. That is why a person, receiving a salary and everyone in this profession knowing for sure what his salary is, will submit a declaration, as is currently the answer to Mr Korb's question, and you can see from there, it cannot be seen how many properties his family has, how much it all costs. Everyone can appreciate it, and no one asks where the money has been taken with which it has all been acquired. There's no time to carry out other political orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U107	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U108	If anyone wants to sign up for an appearance in a free microphone, do it after the hammer hit. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U109	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, my colleague Korb and I went home, and suddenly there was such an interest that we began to see how many houses, cottages, and all sorts of other old objects were falling apart by the highway. Only 150 kilometres from Tallinn to Jõhvi have dozens. There are dozens of them, and they have been standing there for decades, and they are everywhere. Last week I took a bus and got on a bus that was going from Tallinn to Narva through Kunda and Aseri. There was a man sitting next door who came from Sweden, he works there, and he came home for a few days to rest. We talked to him about one thing and another. I wonder how it goes together, that if you look at some official portal or news, everything is so great, everything is booming, everything is so great, we're at the forefront and we're the best, but there's really no job, the wages are low, and if we didn't go somewhere to fucking know where to work, there'd be nothing to live. Then we drove through Aser. Whoever hasn't been there in a long time, take the trouble, go and see what it looks like. You drive and see that one house, the other house, the third house, the fourth house, all without residents. It's like there's been a war over the ruins. I've seen such a thing elsewhere, not just in Ida-Virumaa. My group and I still date quite a lot in different parts of Estonia. When I first got to Lihula a few years ago, I got into Lihula and looked around there, the eye is already used to looking for these places, a deserted industry caught my eye, then probably some warehouse that's falling apart, a birch growing on the roof of a former store, which was ten years old, the windows and doors of houses are smashed shut. A picture like this is currently seen all over Estonia. This is the point of the question: how long can it last? How long does it take to pay attention to what people see all over Estonia every day? I have this feeling last week about Thursday, as once may have been in Radishchev, who wrote a book about his trip from St. Petersburg to Moscow. You can write something similar now, you can drive from Tallinn in any direction, either you go towards Pärnu or you go to Võru or your target is Narva. I think it is high time we really paid attention to this, because people just don't understand how this is possible anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-08_U110	Thank you. There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.35 p.m.
