ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good afternoon, ministers. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 30 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 71 missing. In today's Question Time, the following members of the government will participate: Minister for Defence Urmas Reinsalu, Prime Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Foreign Minister Urmas Paet.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U2	Let's start with today's questions. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have six questions registered, so I can allow two additional questions on the spot for each of them. Let us start with my colleague, Mr Leng, who has a question of the Prime Minister's role as Minister of Defence, Urmas Reinsalu. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U3	Minister of Defence in his duties as Prime Minister. I came into this hall from a senior meeting right here on the slope of Toompea. In defiance of the great dry rain, the crowd chanted the same slogan 'Let the government resign! Let the government stand down! '. I understand these people because one third of the Estonian population, 300000 people have a monthly allowance of 300 euros, which in European terms means total poverty. I have a question for you. Please tell me why this has happened in Estonia! Do you have a prescription for how to improve this situation? How can an Estonian state accept that one third of people cannot live a decent life? You're Prime Minister today, do you have anything to say to pensioners?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U4	Mr. Lenk! Government policy is that people's incomes must increase, pensions must also increase. I am pleased that on 1 April, the average old-age pension rose by 5% and that the budgetary strategy of the country envisages an increase in pensions in the coming years. However, the prerequisite for pension growth is that the state has income to share with people. Income is derived from the increase in value in society, because the people of Estonia have jobs, they earn a living and pay taxes. The more people have jobs, the more revenue the state has to redistribute, the more pension will increase. When comparing the monthly recorded unemployment rate a year ago, I am pleased to see that the unemployment rate is several thousand people lower. The government's policy with regard to the programme for the use of European Union funds for the next seven years is precisely to improve the competitiveness of the Estonian economy by the fact that more people are employed and paid more for their work. If we can complete this program, people's pensions will grow. Economic growth and people's incomes are one-to-one, and the current government's policy is to make every effort to make the economy grow. That, Mr. Lenk, you can bravely reassure the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U5	Please, Mr Lenk, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U6	Mr. Secretary of Defense! It is embarrassing to say such a thing to pensioners, and I am not going to say it, so please tell them directly. Pension increases have been minimal, price increases have far exceeded this. In fact, pensioners remained poorer in April than they were in March, as prices rose strongly. And as far as employment is concerned, we lost it last month. Why has your government not been able to create Estonia so that it can manage itself and ensure a decent life for all its inhabitants?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U7	Government policy is clear and unambiguous. It is a policy that aims at creating value in society, so that people have more work, so that Estonian companies have the opportunity to produce goods and offer services for which a higher price could be paid, so that the income of Estonian people would increase and the pension of older people would also increase. In government policy, the livelihood of the elderly is considered to be very important. I am pleased that the Ministry of Social Affairs has also prepared an active ageing strategy this year, which, in addition to coping issues, concerns the employment and health of older people, includes care care and nursing care. Looking at this year's forecasts for growth in our region and in the European Union as a whole, it can be said that the government's chosen policies for economic recovery and growth are sensible and appropriate, and this is the only solution that could lead to an increase in people's incomes. By sharing misleading bills and by instilling disappointment and fear, we certainly do not increase prosperity in Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U8	Please, Mr Lenk, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U9	Minister of Defence in his duties as Prime Minister. When would this policy, now explained, begin to bear fruit? Currently, the average pension is 300 euros in Estonia and 3000 euros in Luxembourg. In how many years will we reach the European average with our pensions? Can you tell me how long it's gonna take? Twenty years we've been fighting.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U10	I am pleased that you are making a comparison of the welfare indicators of the European Union. For some reason, I remembered today your active campaign that Estonia should not join the European Union. But in the European Union, there is no doubt that Member States' incomes are quite rapidly becoming more uniform. At the same time, I think that if we compare both the incomes of the employed and the pensions of the elderly, it would be right to compare the figures of the countries that joined us at the same time, particularly Latvia and Lithuania. You know very well that old-age pensions in Latvia and Lithuania are lower than in Estonia. However, it is true that we certainly must not accept current salaries and pensions, people's livelihoods. Growth is the only key to the solution. It can come from having more jobs if we can sell our goods and services outside Estonia and get a better price for everything. This is also an answer to the question of how people's incomes are growing. At the same time, the impatience on your question has undoubtedly taken up the Estonian society in general. It's a legitimate impatience, but it has to be directed to the right place. And this right place is precisely that we must jointly propose solutions and contribute to making society more prosperous through work, not through borrowing and misleading slogans.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U11	Now two questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U12	Dear Minister of Defence, in the role of Prime Minister of Urmas Reinsalu! I'm coming from out there too, and really, the mood is really exciting. People are calling for the government to resign, for price increases to be contained, for high taxes to be involved, such as VAT. However, the main issue relates to real pensions, which have fallen for several years in a row. As food prices rise, we have been at the forefront of Europe for several years in a row, home expenses have been constantly increasing and rising as snowballs, and all other prices of services and goods are rising. When will we start to have a real pension, and when will the pensioners living alone, who are in the most difficult situation, be paid an additional pension, as is the case in other European countries? When and how are old people guaranteed a decent pension?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U13	As far as the real pension is concerned, it depends on the time perspective to analyse it. It is true that the real pension decreased because there was no real pension increase in 2010 and 2011, the pension remained the same. At the same time, it is also right that real pension growth has been above 10% in 2006-2013. With regard to the latest 5% increase in old-age pension, the statistics of the Ministry of Finance do not forecast an increase of more than 5% in consumer prices this year. So the current increase in pensions should mean that the increase is slower than the increase in pensions. Now the central question is how people's incomes can grow As I told your brother, the key to this is that we have more jobs for people. Today, many people are away from the labour market. Opportunities must be created so that we can better integrate them into the labour market and charge higher prices for the values created there, especially thanks to exports. It is true that the livelihood problems of individual pensioners are the most serious. This is definitely a topic that should be analysed in Estonia. For example, the idea of introducing a widow's pension as an additional pension supplement in Estonia has been suggested. I think that this should also be seriously discussed in the interests of community unity.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U14	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U15	Minister of Defence in his duties as Prime Minister. Let's talk about Estonia. The Estonian tax-free pension, from which no income tax goes, is 336 euros. Many people really had a 5% increase in pension on 1 April and praise to you that you did not say that the government raised the pension in fact raises the pension law regardless of who is in the government. What is your personal position, when could the income tax-free minimum rise, so that those people who have had a 5% increase in their pension according to the letters would actually get a share of it? Until now, for those who have a slightly higher pension, this part disappeared and some people's pension actually only increased a few euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U16	I think it is reasonable to introduce a higher rate of income tax-free minimum for pensioners, especially in the interests of subsistence. At the same time, the share of old people with a share of income above the tax-free minimum has increased due to the increase in nominal pensions. According to the Social Insurance Board, the number of these people is over 100,000. The government has discussed raising the tax-free minimum rate in the preparation of the state budget strategy. We took the view that we will return to the issue of the income tax-free minimum when there is a summer economic forecast and we will start to draw up the state budget for next year. My personal view is that, when it comes to tax policy measures to encourage people's livelihoods, raising the tax-free minimum is the most sensible idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U17	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of Defense. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U18	The next question is from my colleague, Indrek Saare, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Urmas Paet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U19	Good minister! The subject of double citizenship has been up for at least a year. On 26 July 2012, the Cabinet discussed this issue and instructed the Ministry of the Interior to provide the government with an analysis by autumn. However, the results of this analysis have not been obtained from public sources, nor have they been communicated to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. By the end of the year, the Ministry of the Interior came up with a bill proposing double citizenship for everyone to be formally banned, but also not obliged to choose citizenship at the time of birth, which is essentially to hide the head in the sand. We must agree with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which failed to coordinate this bill in December 2012. The next time the Riigikogu discussed this issue in Question Time this year on 16 January, when Foreign Minister Paet expressed his hope that the government would reach a position in the coming weeks. The problem is still up, but it has not been heard what the government's position is or what will happen next. Minister's comment, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U20	Good afternoon. The main reason why this has not moved forward is that at least the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs disagree on this issue. There may be differences of opinion among other members of the government, but this has not been retested by the government. The Ministry of the Interior has sent the Ministry of Foreign Affairs an analysis on this subject, but as I said, our views are still different. The position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including my own, is that double citizenship could be allowed for people of Estonian citizenship at birth. The analysis sent to us by the Ministry of the Interior concludes that this should not be allowed. So we'll see if there's any way to bring these attitudes closer together and finally make a decision. It is clear that, according to the government division of labour, the amendment of the Citizenship Act belongs to the field of work of the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs can express its attitudes and views, but a specific draft, making these changes is the subject of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U21	Please, Mr Indrek Saar, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U22	Thank you for your answer. Good Minister, I understand you will not be allowed to interfere in the area of Homeland Administration. Consequently, I have a question about the work of the consuls. In a foreign country, we probably have hundreds of young people with double citizenship who received an Estonian passport 18 years ago and now need to update this document. Consequently, they must be informed that they are offenders and must decide within three years which nationality they choose. I'm sure you've discussed this with the consuls. What are the guidelines given to them? How are they supposed to behave?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U23	Given the principle of the Constitution that Estonian citizenship at birth cannot be taken away from anyone, it is not justified to traumatise people with any other mixed messages. So our message to the consuls is that if a citizen of the Republic of Estonia comes to renew the passport of the Republic of Estonia, he will do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U24	Please, Mr Indrek Saar, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U25	Thank you for that answer. But these citizens are still lawbreakers, because double citizenship cannot be in accordance with Estonian law. Shouldn't these people still be informed? But be that as it may, we close our eyes, hide our heads in the sand, and practice double morals, we declare one thing, but we promise another. In practice, however, we can give many examples of problems. Last year 520 Estonian citizens received Finnish citizenship. Many of them have therefore had to give up Estonian citizenship. The second question is: do you think it is in Estonia's interest that we force many of our people to give up Estonian citizenship, that we do not allow double citizenship in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U26	There's a lot of things now. The laws of other countries must also be taken into account. In some countries there is such a law that if you want to become a citizen of this country, you must give up your previous citizenship. It does not therefore matter whether the Estonian state wants to take something away from someone or not. The Estonian state cannot do much if the x law of the country requires that people who want to become citizens of that country must give up their previous citizenship. As far as the general contradiction you have referred to is concerned, that is why I am of the opinion that the citizens of birth must be allowed double citizenship. This is the contradiction between the principle of the Constitution and the provision of the Citizenship Act. On the one hand, no one can be deprived of Estonian citizenship at birth, but there must be no double citizenship. This is a contradiction, and that is why I think it is reasonable to allow it, all the more so because in other parts of the world, including Europe, there is a very clear direction that double citizenship is allowed, especially for the citizens of birth. Finland, which pursues a relatively conservative citizenship policy, took this step already in 2003, or ten years ago. Double citizenship is allowed for Finnish citizens born after birth. Now much more than half of the countries of the European Union are allowing double citizenship, and almost all countries are allowing double citizenship for their citizens after birth.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U27	I would like to ask a question registered on the ground, Mr Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U28	Good minister! The problem we are talking about right now is real. I have so-called family experience in this area. My teenage grandchildren have a double citizenship, they have a lot of friends, and they often discuss the subject. I am pleased that the Reform Party understands and supports double citizenship. Do you think that if you were to draw up a draft such that these young people would not have to break the law or give up Estonian citizenship today or in the future, would the Reform Party support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U29	You referred, yes, to a very topical problem. The people who face the dilemma of choosing citizenship are constantly growing. Estonian citizens are not only married to Estonian citizens but also foreign citizens and children are born to them. In my opinion, it is quite unethical to put these children or their parents in a position to choose whether the child should take the mother's or father's nationality. Also, from a purely human point of view, I think it is reasonable to allow the citizens of birth to have double citizenship. As regards how to respond to a specific draft, this reform party has not discussed it. However, our first preference is to achieve an agreement in the coalition, or government, in such an important step as amending the Citizenship Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U30	I would like to ask you now for the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Allik.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U31	Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs! Your views seem perfectly reasonable and logical. But this briefing is also being followed by the public, and right now there is really a question of what the Ministry of the Interior is objecting to your logical views. Would you mind explaining in a few words?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U32	The analysis that the Ministry of the Interior sent us is available on 42 pages, along with the source references and an overview of the literature on which it has been based. When you look at the counter arguments on just one page, it causes social tension, injustice and opposition to the state, for example, when people who are not born are not allowed to do so. This could lead to an increase in the subject of escalating discrimination. There is also a fear that there may be a great many Russian citizens who are at the same time Estonian citizens after birth. There are also mention of possible direct security threats to the regularisation of multiple citizenship, in particular in the areas of counter-intelligence, constitutional order and the protection of state secrets, and, in the long term, the threat of terrorism also acquires greater topicality. And so on, 42 pages in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U33	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U34	The next question is for my colleague, Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, the Minister of Agriculture, to Mrs Tuksole. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U35	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Agriculture! I would like to talk to you today about money that has been unfairly taken away from the Estonian state and Estonian entrepreneurs. Last year it was decided to return part of this money. In particular, we are talking about surplus stocks of agricultural products. In January, you announced that 6,6 billion euros had been returned to Estonia. My question to you is whether interest and costs have been recovered. What's the status on that return?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U36	Thank you for your question. This is really an important question for Estonia; the amount is considerable. Yes, the excess stock fine, which was then imposed on Estonia and which Estonia has paid off, has been paid back to Estonia by the European Commission. The sums that have not been repaid for trial and interest have not yet been charged to the European Commission. The Cabinet has been discussing the matter and negotiations with the European Commission are currently continuing, because we have not reached agreement with the Commission on the so-called'sugar fine'. We have also requested that the sugar fine be repaid to the Republic of Estonia, so far we have not received a formal reply from the European Commission. But, as I said, negotiations are under way and, depending on their results, I, as Minister of Agriculture, have a duty to bring this issue back to the Cabinet and, according to the decision of the Cabinet, we will act. What I mean is that if we are paid back the sugar fine, we will also ask the European Commission to reimburse the costs relating to interest and legal expenses in Estonia. Perhaps the European Commission will decide not to pay back the sugar fine at all, so we will have the opportunity to go back to the courts. We've been going there for years anyway. I can't answer those questions today. It all depends on the European Commission's official response to us, which unfortunately is not yet there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U37	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first supplementary question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U38	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Somehow it's been dragging. Why have you not gone to the government office with this question to speed up this process a little bit? Time runs, and there's a lot of costs involved. Companies have suffered enough damage as it is. Can you propose a timetable for you to go to the government office and when you will again be communicating with the European Commission, for example, on the recovery of the sugar fine?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U39	This topic started in 2003, before joining the European Union. So it's an old subject. Now we're in 2013, so the saga has been going on for ten years. In the cabinet, as I said, we've been through this. At the moment, the Estonian state will not be able to take action until we have received the official position of the European Commission. As early as last year, as a result of the debate at the Cabinet, we applied to the European Commission for a refund of the sugar fine. We have not received a formal answer to this, but we have been holding very intensive oral negotiations over the past six months, and I have also spoken to the Commissioner for Agriculture on this issue. The Chancellor will have a meeting with the head of the Agriculture Commissioner's office to discuss the subject. I hope this will take place before the summer holidays, but it will depend on the speed of the European Commission's proceedings. I understand that it is not easy for the European Commission to make this decision because it concerns similar cases in other Member States. In other parts of the world, the amount of sugar fine is smaller than in Estonia. However, this would be a precedent in a sense, and I understand that the European Commission is facing a very difficult decision on how to deal with Estonia. At the same time, there is an analogous decision of the European Union, which suggests that the Commission should pay back the fine to the Member State. As far as the other stocks are concerned, the Commission decided so. So we have nothing to discuss in the cabinet until we have received the European Commission's official response. After that, we can shape our position and, if necessary, go back to court. We don't have a reason to go to court until then. So it is not the national debates that are behind this, but the European Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U40	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, another supplementary question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U41	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You have said that Estonia will recover from the European Commission all the surplus stocks paid to the budget of the European Union and will, on the basis of individual decision-making, cancel the surplus stock charge for traders, both for sugar and for other agricultural products. How has the individual decision-making process so far gone? And how have you behaved with businesses when it comes to agricultural products, and have you already decided something in advance on sugar?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U42	As far as other stocks are concerned, most of the requests made by the operators have been accepted. This means that the money has been repaid to everyone who has applied for it. But since you asked, I assure you that we will examine all cases individually so that there is no mistake. However, these amounts have been recovered. As far as the sugar fine is concerned, we have not started this process because we do not know what the decision of the European Commission is. We certainly cannot begin, on our own initiative, to pay back the sugar fine that they have been charged to businesses. After all, very many people have not paid for this, and there is a court dispute in Estonia with a lot of people. Some have paid, some have not paid. For those who have paid the fine, there is no way we can return that money right now. If the Commission decides not to pay back the money, but it has already been done in Estonia, they will most likely treat it as prohibited state aid and, in addition to the sugar fine, the Estonian state will be subject to further fines, which we must definitely avoid. So we cannot repay any sugar fines to companies until there is a clear decision by the Commission that we can challenge through the courts and we can also not challenge. As I said, when the answer is received, I will take it to the cabinet for a statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U43	I would like to ask you a question on the ground, Mr Neeme Suur.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U44	Minister, thank you very much. I would like to ask this question: do you think the Russian market is an important market for the Estonian food industry and what are recent trends in this regard? Is the Russian market more important or is it shrinking? What should the Estonian state do to make the Russian market available to our food industry?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U45	You must be thinking above all of the food industry and the transport of our food products to the Russian market. It has historically been important to us, and it still has. There have been worse and better days. It can now be said that the Finnish and Russian markets are competing for us as export markets, the procedure is one-on-one, the second. Russia and Finland account for 18%-19%. In the previous quarter, Estonia's food was exported to Finland the most, currently Russia is the most important. But yes, their share is 18 to 19% and these are important markets for us. At the same time, we must realise that the Russian market really is an unlimited opportunity for us, given the abundance and volume of consumers that could be exported there. However, we must also bear in mind that this is a very risky and unpredictable market, where politics plays a role. We know of the decision to ban the transport of live pigs to Russia. This is not at all an argumentable decision, and for a year now, both the representatives of the Republic of Estonia and the European Commission are negotiating at their highest level, at the Commissioner's level, with Russia, so that this unfair restriction will be lifted, but it has not been done, although Russia has in the meantime joined the WTO. So this market is very tempting, very necessary, but very risky. Businesses must also take into account these risks, and we should certainly not overly depend on and orient ourselves to the Russian market.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U46	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U47	Good minister! I'd take the word for it. You, in the same way, praised the Russian market and, on the other hand, pointed out the risks involved. At the same time, in political terms, you are opposed to concluding a border agreement. Do you think if we had a border agreement, would there be a lower or higher risk of placing our agricultural products on the Russian market?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U48	I want to fix you first. I'm not against a border deal. I have said it out loud that I support a border agreement that is bilaterally in line with the interests of both countries. A solution should be found that is in line with the interests of both countries. Such an agreement is reasonable in every way, but not at any cost. However, the fact that we do not have a border agreement does not, in my opinion, have had a particular impact on trade and economic relations with Russia at all. It cannot be said that, for example, the economic relations between Latvia and Lithuania and Russia have undergone significant changes since the conclusion of the border agreement, that exports have increased or that the conditions of these companies in Russia have improved in any way, or that the Russian authorities have started to treat these countries much better. I don't see a very clear connection here. There is currently a check line between us and Russia with its rules on border crossings. These difficulties that we encounter from time to time are not linked to the border, but to other issues. In the food sector, where we have had problems, there is an obstacle to referring to food safety requirements, as well as to exports of live pigs and other restrictions. From the time I was in office, I do not recall that there were significant obstacles to the food industry and agriculture in terms of the absence of a border agreement or crossing the border. So I can't see a connection and danger like that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U49	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U50	Let's go to the next question. This is a question by my colleague, Mrs Luigas, for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Urmas Paet. Colleagues Inara Luigas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. As the Minister of Agriculture has already said, it does not matter whether we have a new border agreement or not. In fact, the major objective is to achieve good trade and economic relations with Russia at all. But I'm going to ask you a question that a gentleman sent me yesterday. He writes: 'The Republic of Estonia, even without a new border treaty, is now taken into the European Union and NATO, we are a member of the euro zone. The border of the state, which was created by the birth of the Republic of Estonia and determined by the Tartu Peace Treaty, is still, the control line, the administrative border has been working satisfactorily for decades. Why do Estonian politicians need a new Estonian state border, although there is no serious justification for any logical understanding? Why is the state border of the Republic of Estonia determined by the Tartu Peace Treaty not left alone? ' Then I ask again why this speed and what is motivated by the desire for a new border of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U52	That is, of course, a good question. For almost 22 years, the border issue has been addressed in the context of relations between Estonia and Russia. If you come closer, in October last year, all the political groups of the Riigikogu, as well as the League of Democrats of the Riigikogu, sent a letter to the government, including me. The representative of your envoy Rainer Vakra had also signed it. It expressed its wish for the government to resume consultations with the Russian side in order to find a way, after all, to create a legal border between Estonia and Russia recognised by both sides. Why do you need it? Maybe we could live without it? For me, the main argument is that the less we have big, important open questions with Russia, the better. I also see the legal fixation of a state border as a security issue, and that is exactly how I deal with it. To date, all European countries that are neighbours of Russia and are not members of the CIS have concluded a border agreement with Russia. Estonia is the only country that has not yet done so. And now that we have reached the level of consultations and foreign ministries, this has also been approved by the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs, where all the political parties in the Riigikogu are represented, I think it is reasonable to move forward with this process in order to take it off the agenda at the end of the day and legally fix the state border between Estonia and Russia, thereby also mitigating potential security risks. In dealing with this issue, we are dealing with the future of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U53	Please, Mr Luigas, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U54	Minister, thank you very much. It is true that we must have a good relationship with the Russian state, and the aim is to revive trade and all economic relations. You have recently said in the media that the text of the agreement is essentially complete, and if it is approved at the level of the ministries and at the level of the Russian state, it will also reach this Riigikogu, and the Riigikogu will hopefully ratify this border agreement. Would you explain how this new border treaty interacts with the Tartu Peace Treaty? Does the new border agreement cancel the part concerning the Tartu Peace Treaty border?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U55	As one point of the Tartu Peace Treaty is about where the land border line between Estonia and Russia runs, yes, if the new border agreement enters into force, it will change the point of the Tartu Peace Treaty, which states how the border line will run. It has nothing to do with any of the other clauses of this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U56	Please, Mr Luigas, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U57	Dear Minister, I believe that we should talk more about this important issue in this Riigikogu and talk more about it. We have dealt with a number of very important issues in this Chamber. We have generously distributed taxpayers' money to poor countries of the European Union, we have even partly pledged the Estonian state budget and it is very strange that we have not dealt with as important a matter as the Estonian-Russian border agreement in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu. Do you not think that, before this agreement is ratified in this Chamber, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should make a statement and this issue would be treated as a crucial national issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U58	I argue that the Riigikogu has discussed this issue, indeed. In 2005, the Riigikogu reached the decision to ratify the very border agreements, which came about after the topic had been discussed. When we are talking about the border line, in the current draft agreement, this line is exactly where the Riigikogu approved these agreements in 2005. There are no changes to the question of the border line compared to the decision made by the Riigikogu in 2005. And the discussions were long and wide. I do not see that the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has in any way prohibited further discussion of this issue, whether in the large Chamber of Parliament or in the committees. I understand that this was a more rhetorical question or a question to the Board of the Riigikogu, because it concerns what you want to put on the agenda of your sittings here. Any committee that has ever wanted to discuss this matter has been able to discuss it with all kinds of people in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including me. For example, in the last seven months, when consultations have been held, I have come every month to talk to the Committee on Foreign Affairs about this. And as far as I know the internal life of the Riigikogu, MEPs from other committees may also attend meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. To say that there has been no debate at all, to say the least, that is not the case. If the Riigikogu wants to discuss this subject any other way, it is in its own hands and has always been.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U59	Mr. Secretary of State, the Bureau has not been able to discuss this request. But let's start by asking questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U60	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We have quite a number of politicians, including members of the government, who write about the Estonian-Russian border agreement, but unfortunately there is hardly any information on the border treaty on Russia's Internet portals. My question has to do with this. Do you have an overview of what Russian top politicians are writing about the Estonian-Russian border agreement and what they are even thinking, whether or not it can be signed in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U61	I have some insight. It is clear that this topic is much more under discussion in Estonia than in Russia. They have a lot of other things to discuss there. But, to a certain extent, this issue has been under discussion there in recent years and also in recent months, and if anyone thinks that there is a strong consensus on this between different politicians and political forces in Russia, that is not the case. There are very many politicians in Russia who are of the opinion that such a demeaning border agreement should not be concluded with Estonia. In a sense, similar rhetoric, which we sometimes hear about this draft agreement here in Estonia, is also heard in Russia. People in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there, too, have thought that if these agreements were ever to come to Parliament for ratification, then perhaps there will be very different views. So maybe we are mystifying it in Estonia from time to time, as if this agreement is more needed by someone than by the parties. It's not like that! This agreement is needed on both sides. It should not be assumed that there is a strong consensus in Russia that this must be done now. It's not like that! Exactly the same discussion that has erupted in Estonia is seen in a different key, of course, and perhaps with a different ambition in Russia as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U62	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U63	Good minister! I am personally sympathetic to the views on the border treaty, and the League of Democrats of the Riigikogu generally supports them. Really, how long? 22 years is a very long time, and one should do it. So most of us think we're on the right track, and this border agreement needs to be concluded. What do you think about other parties and political groups? Does the majority support this proposal? Each member of the Riigikogu has its own principles and the opinions that came from the political groups reflect the position of the majority of the political groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U64	Last October, all the political groups of the Riigikogu, as well as your association of ambassadors, signed the government's proposal to resume consultations with Russia in order to find a way to enforce the border agreements. That is what I take for the most part. Consequently, all these groups believed that this had to be done. To conclude this process, the Riigikogu in the Committee on Foreign Affairs was convened where these consultations reached, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs supported with one voice the decision to move forward with internal procedures aimed at enforcing these agreements in the form that the consultations resulted from. Once again, all the parties represented in the Riigikogu were also represented at this meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and, as I said, the decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs was unanimous. This has been seen by the Estonian public, I have seen it, you have all seen it. It's really hard for me to talk about something else here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U65	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U66	I would now ask my colleague Kajar Lember for a question to Minister for Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U67	Good minister! As we know, the biggest challenge for rural areas in planning the use of EU funds is to create and maintain jobs so that people do not simply leave the country. This certainly also concerns agriculture, where our competitiveness should improve slightly compared to the so-called old Europe in a large picture. But how much increase is there, if any, of the amounts allocated to the development of the non-agricultural sector compared to the previous period and perhaps to other European countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U68	Indeed, the rural development plan is a very important document and I would like to emphasise here that it is not just a money-sharing document. In recent times, a great deal of attention has been paid to shaping the proportions of the distribution of money in the rural development plan, but it is also a substantive document that sets out the objectives, the measures to be implemented in the various areas, as well as who is eligible for aid for the various measures. But speaking of money, the total volume of the rural development plan for the next period is 936 million euros, 721 million of which comes from the European Union budget and the rest is compulsory co-financing by the Estonian state. The financing of non-agricultural entrepreneurship in the form of non-refundable aid should, according to the current vision, be lower in the next period than in this period. How much exactly, it is difficult to say, because we have created a new financial instrument that is not available during this period, and it can also be used by other rural entrepreneurship developers. If you start using it vigorously, you can't tell and there's no point of comparison with the current period. So the amount of non-refundable aid will decrease, but the number of forms of aid to be recovered will increase. What's going to be a balance sheet is hard to say. It is very difficult to compare our situation with other countries because other countries have not yet established their rural development plan. They are still at work and we have nothing to compare with. Once other countries have also adopted and approved the rural development plan, we can compare what the picture will be. I can't say that today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U69	Please, Mr Lember, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U70	As in the previous period, a non-agricultural operator operating in a new period is likely to be able to receive support under the Leader programme and the rural diversification measure. So far, the rural diversification measure also provided an opportunity to implement larger projects and to invest more heavily. As far as I know, there is a plan to put an end to this great measure. Are you sure this is a wise step?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U71	Leader is a local self-initiative programme which finances non-economic activities, i.e. both social and technical infrastructure, but can also support entrepreneurship. The volume of this measure over this period has been 10% of the total RDP volume, and it is likely to be 10% in the following period. This is currently the state of development of the rural development plan. In this period, apart from Leader, a village development measure has also been implemented, which we do not intend to launch in the new period. In fact, this measure was not intended to be implemented in the current period, but it developed differently. It took several years to launch the Leader programme, since the Leader regions had to be set up voluntarily first, strategies, evaluation criteria and everything else needed had to be developed and then the programme could be implemented. Thus, a rural development plan was rapidly developed for the development of village life, which did not require such long preparation. This could be started quickly, and in the first years of the period a measure for the development of village life was implemented. When the Leader programme was launched, the village development measure was terminated. The Leader system is currently working, and we want to continue with it, and we will no longer implement another similar programme. As far as the volume of funding for projects is concerned, this is a subject for discussion; it is not definitively decided. The Steering Committee will meet, the other ministries have not expressed their views, and the government will certainly be discussing MAK. So no final decisions have been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U72	Please, Mr Lember, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U73	It can be concluded from your reply that entrepreneurship grants will also decrease because, during this period, a total of more funds were allocated to the Leader programme and the village development measure than is likely to be allocated to the Leader programme in the new period. And since, in implementing Leader, the pressure to finance community activities is likely to increase, I have the feeling that the role of entrepreneurship will be even smaller than it is now. What is your assessment of this claim?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U74	It is true that if we add up the village development measure and the Leader programme for this period, we will be able to raise more money than is allocated to Leader in the next period. The funding of the Leader programme for the next period is somewhat higher than the current period, but in total it is indeed less. It is up to the region to decide how much Leader money goes to entrepreneurship. It has to be said that there were not many projects supporting entrepreneurship in Leader during this period. Most of the money has gone to support non-business. So I can't predict. Everything depends on local development plans, local priorities in Leader regions, what the locals think is important. If they consider it necessary to finance much more entrepreneurship, then the Leader programme for the next period will also make it possible to do so. I repeat, it's hard to predict. It depends on the local initiative, the local people. But I would like to stress once again that during this period, the share of money devoted to entrepreneurship under the Leader programme was relatively modest.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U75	Now the questions registered on the spot. Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U76	Dear Minister, Business has also been supported through EAS, KredEx and the Development Fund during this budgetary period of the European Union. A venture capital fund has also been set up in the latter. You also talked about setting up some kind of fund in the new financial period of the European Union. It is, of course, possible for the company itself to decide whether to take out a loan, obtain guarantees for its operations or apply for non-refundable aid. Does the rural development plan do something like this in the new financial period specifically for the benefit of rural enterprises and, if so, how much could this amount be?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U77	Yes, we are indeed planning a new measure that was not implemented during this period. It is a financial instrument with a volume of EUR 65 million in the next period and which, in our view, should be implemented by the Rural Promotion Foundation. We are talking about loans, loan interest rates and guarantees. The company has a choice: either it applies for non-repayable aid under different measures, if it is eligible, or it prefers a financial instrument. In the case of certain measures, which also concern agricultural investment and rural diversification, i.e. support for other business, we would see that, as a rule, non-refundable aid is not granted for the acquisition of mobile machinery, i.e. cars, tractors and other mobile machinery. In particular, the non-repayable aid would go to the construction of buildings and structures and to the implementation of new technologies. In order to obtain mobile equipment, it would be primarily a financial instrument to cover leases and purchases of mobile equipment. Such are the plans we have, but the measures have not yet been finalised. This can still happen once the European Commission has approved the Rural Development Plan in Brussels. Then we can work out the measures once and for all. But these are the initial plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U78	Now another brief question and a brief answer. Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U79	Minister, thank you very much. In the case of these financial instruments, the grant is treated differently in principle. It is not a non-refundable aid, it is a grant in the form of guarantees or loans. Do you not think that this is how public aid actually reaches stronger and wealthier farms, while small businesses start up with small sums of money? In any case, the use of loans or of any aid to be recovered will have greater and stronger capacities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U80	Yes, to a certain extent, this risk exists and, to that end, we have provided for differences for smaller producers in the rural development plan for measures concerning non-repayable aid. They will be able to make more favourable use of the non-repayable aid. But I want to make another brief comment on the financial instrument: this important advantage for the state is that this money will be recovered, it is re-used. And when this period is over and the money has been recovered, the Member State will have free money to support business. It is very important that we generate free money that we can use to support our business already in terms of national rules and priorities, so that the European Commission does not write it to us. This is the added value of the implementation of the financial instrument.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U81	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, our Question Time is over. Many thanks to the members of the Riigikogu for asking questions and many thanks for replying to the members of the government!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U82	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 15th working week session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U83	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Together with several colleagues from the Central Party Group, I would like to report an inquiry to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. This concerns the activities of the Tax and Customs Board and outstanding taxes. This year, as well as last year, the private limited company Autorollo and related transactions have been the subject of constant media attention. It is noteworthy that the private company is linked to the family of the Minister of Environment. The Estonian Tax and Customs Board could also have a logical interest in the circulation of money between Autorollo, Autovaala and the Estonian Package Circle. However, there is no information on the state's activities so far. The Estonian Tax and Customs Board is a member of the Ministry of Finance. As cash has allegedly been withdrawn from ATMs for more than 17 million kroons and if its involvement in the company's economic activities cannot be demonstrated by the Tax and Customs Board, the corresponding use of funds is subject to taxation as a non-business-related cost. Income tax, social tax and interest on late payments must be included in the amount for the whole period. If the company is bankrupt and insolvent, the responsible persons shall be charged with all the damage caused by them by a civil action or, in the case of a intentional criminal offence, by criminal proceedings. With regard to this issue, we are putting a total of four questions to the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U84	Thank you. Please, colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U85	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! It is my great honour to hand over the draft Act amending § 5 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Central Party of the Riigikogu. The aim of the draft is to improve the capacity of local authorities to perform local government tasks and provide services. To this end, we wish to establish from 2014 that the local government receives 12.3% of the income tax on a resident natural person. This would raise the income tax to the pre-crisis level of the local government budget and, in addition, compensate for the loss of income to the municipalities due to the land tax exemption. The proposal is supported by the Cooperation Council of the Municipalities, which has proposed the same content to the Government Commission in the 2014 state budget negotiations. The legislative amendment reduces income tax receipts in the state budget and increases the budgets of local governments. If the draft was adopted as a law at the moment, it would be possible to include a smaller amount of income tax in the state budget for the next year, i.e. 2014 in the planning of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U86	Thank you. Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U87	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over a number of members of the Central Party Group to the inquiry into the Environment Minister, Keit Pentus-Rosimud. The issue of the appointment of persons to boards of state-owned companies has arisen in connection with the recent bankruptcy procedure of Autorollo, which has given rise to much discussion in the media. On the proposal of the Minister for the Environment, a third of the board members of the KIC have been appointed and other companies established by the State are also under the control of the Minister. It is claimed that the manning of the management and control bodies of the implementation units EAS and KIC of the Euro Support Sharing Units to the Reform Party and to the persons eligible for the IRL has created a situation in which the eligible persons will receive the euro Support for the ruling coalition. In this respect, we want to know from the Minister what principles will form the governing and control bodies and boards of companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U88	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted one bill and two inquiries. If the draft law complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the Management Board will decide on this procedure within three working days. If inquiries comply with this law, I shall forward them immediately to the addressees. Now I'll give you the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Public Health Act and the State Fees Act, initiated on 20 May, the Committee on Social Affairs; second, the Government of the Republic. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peacebuilding Mission in Mali' initiated on 20 May, Lead Commission of the National Defence Commission. I have forwarded enquiries from members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimitud, and to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Please, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U89	Let's get to today's agenda. The first point is the third reading of the draft law amending the Media Services Act and related laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption of this law requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, we are once again doing a verification of our presence. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Media Services Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related laws 336. Please vote! 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U90	We will begin the third reading of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 414. Please vote! 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U91	The third reading of Bill 392 of the Law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, we can go again to the final vote on the law. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote on the final amendment of the Act on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the draft Act on the amendment of other laws 392. Please vote! 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one was against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U92	The third reading of the draft law amending the Law on organic farming and state fees initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on organic farming and the Law on state fees, as initiated by the Government of the Republic, 405. Please vote! 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one was against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U93	The next item is the second reading of the draft law 354 on the amendment of the law on the grant of international protection to aliens initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. For a presentation, I would like to ask my colleague Mart Nuti, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U94	Madam Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This draft law is one of those that can certainly be said to have been discussed very thoroughly with all the parties involved, and their views have been taken into account as far as possible. The draft has been discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs four times after the first reading, and I will give a brief overview of these discussions. So much to remind you that the draft law was at first reading on 13 February this year. The first reading was completed, and the Riigikogu Bureau set the deadline for submitting amendments on the proposal of the Constitutional Committee on 28 February. No proposals were received from any member of the Riigikogu or political groups by that date, but the Constitutional Committee has drawn up three amendments based on the discussions, which are in the table as our proposals. After the first reading in the Riigikogu, the Constitutional Committee discussed the draft law 354 at its regular sitting on 19 February, 12 March, 6 May and 13 May. On 19 February, senior regional officials of the North Baltic Regional Office of the United Nations Refugee Agency Karolina Lindholm-Billing and Andrei Arjupin took part as guests, who had sent us their comments and suggestions on the draft. Officials of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also attended the discussion. At that meeting on 19 February, Mrs Lindholm-Billing presented the views of the United Nations Refugee Agency. In his opinion, he stressed that asylum seekers could only be subject to detention on the grounds laid down by law and only if other measures could not be used. Therefore, detention is justified in the interests of public order, human health and national security. As regards the length of detention of the asylum seeker, Mrs Lindholm-Billing explained that there is no clear guide as to how long the asylum seeker could or should be detained. In order to assess this, a proportionality test must be carried out to assess the necessity, proportionality and moderation of the measure. He stressed that asylum seekers should not be treated as potential criminals. He or she must be considered to be a person legally present in the country, since the lodging of an application for asylum regularises the person's stay even when he or she arrived without a visa or other legal basis. The representatives of the Ministry of the Interior explained at the hearing that the principle of proportionality in detention is the result of § 3 (2) of the Administrative Procedure Act and therefore it is not necessary to specifically mention it in the draft 354. At the same time, the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior did not object to these principles being included in this draft for better understanding. The representative of the Ministry of Interior also spoke at the meeting of the Commission that on 18 February they met representatives of the Estonian Human Rights Centre, who had several proposals for the draft. They are also available in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Estonian Human Rights Centre were invited to the meeting of the Constitutional Commission on 12 March. The aim was to hear once again the views of the representatives of the Human Rights Centre. The representatives of the Ministry of the Interior submitted a letter to the Commission proposing to supplement § 361 by stating that the asylum seeker would be detained only if other surveillance measures were not effective. The principle of proportionality must be taken into account. In addition, representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in agreement with representatives of the Human Rights Centre, proposed to supplement the draft with a provision providing for special treatment of vulnerable persons. At the same meeting, the Commission considered that the views of Judge Villem Lapland on the draft should also be heard and that the debate within the committee should then continue. Next, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 6 May. As guests, representatives of the Estonian Human Rights Centre and the Ministry of the Interior were invited again. Representatives of the Ministry of the Interior attended the meeting on 13 May. The final text was also finalised at this meeting. The representatives of the Human Rights Centre stressed that the status of the asylum seeker is related to human rights in the asylum procedure. Not only is the effectiveness of the procedure important, but a strong emphasis is placed on the protection of the human rights of the asylum seeker. The representatives of the Estonian Human Rights Centre were not quite satisfied with the grounds for detention laid down in subsections 361 (3), (4), (5) and (6) of the Estonian Human Rights Centre. The representatives of the Ministry of the Interior found that these provisions contain a clear reference to the grounds for detention of asylum seekers. It may only be applied if it is unavoidable if the supervisory measures would not be effective. The strict principles of proportionality must be taken into account. Since it is already written, it is no longer necessary to refer to these principles in each base. At the meeting of the Commission, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior also stressed that the suspicions that were raised in the media, that asylum seekers would be detained in the detention centre together with people suspected of a crime or administrative offence or who had committed an administrative offence, were unfounded. The grounds for detention at this centre come from the law. If a person suspected or accused in criminal proceedings or an offence proceedings is involved, he or she shall not be sent to the detention centre. The general principle of European Union law is that these people must be separated from each other, and Estonia has always done so. In Estonia, it is not possible to put prisoners and expulsions together. These are the two different institutions and regimes that have been followed up so far and will continue to be followed up in accordance with this draft. In the context of the draft we are discussing today, a detention centre will be established in Harku, the name of the expulsion centre will be changed to a detention centre. At the same time, the Government of the Republic is working to establish a single detention centre on the territory of the Tallinn prison. I would point out "territory," not with the prison. The construction should start between 2015 and 2017. So it is not yet a final and topical issue. The Ministry of the Interior considers that these authorities must be fully separated, there are no objections to the territory, but the requirements for the expulsion centre will also apply to the detention centre. They must be fulfilled. In particular, this means that all activities must be allocated from the activity of prisoners to catering, entrances and visits. If this is possible, the creation of a detention centre near the prison in Tallinn is probably real. If the design concludes that the costs are unthinkable, there is still a Harku Deportation Centre, a detention centre with a new name. The Commission also raised the question of the rights of the defence police enshrined in § 362. The Defence Police are known to be one of the police authorities, as are other police units, and therefore the Defence Police have these rights under other laws. There is, in principle, a question of debate and decision as to whether or not there should be a specific reference to the defence police in this law. It is in the law that has been in force so far, but since this question was raised only in the fourth, or last, debate and whether or not that provision is in there will, in essence, change nothing, the Commission has decided not to deal with this issue now and to resolve the issues of the defence police with regard to national security laws. As has been said, three amendments to the draft have been tabled, all from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The proposals received unanimous support from all Members of the Commission. In terms of time savings, I'm not going to read them. You should all have them. Finally, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs made procedural decisions: the second reading could take place today, it could be terminated and appointed rapporteur for my modest person, the draft will be directed after the end of today's second reading, when the Riigikogu plenary so decides, again to the committee, to discuss the issues of the third reading. No one opposed the bill, some of the ambassadors were neutral. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading. If there are any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U95	Thank you very much, Mr Mart Nutt. Let's continue with the questions. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U96	I take advantage of the fact that the human rights specialist is on the verge of speaking, and I deliberately ask a slightly provocative question based on a play of words. Please, argue with me, or explain to me what the difference is! I am saying that the detention centre where criminals are held is a prison, and a prison where foreigners are held is a detention centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U97	Has your question been asked by name or function? When we talk about prison and by that we mean an institution where criminals are detained, we understand the meaning of the prison in the same way. In prison, Estonian law cannot, and I also think that, under European Union law, prisoners cannot be held on grounds other than judgment alone. In a place which is a detention centre within the meaning of this bill, no prisoners are held, no persons convicted by the court are held there. It is two separate bodies. In the meantime, there was a question in the media that if, by the way, the detention centre is now an expulsion centre and a primary reception centre, these institutions are connected and the name 'detention centre' is not yet in use at all, the prison is located in one territory, whether they are two separate institutions or like one institution. When this bill becomes a law, there are two separate institutions that are simply located in one of the areas of Tallinn Prison. I bring about a comparison that very many different people, both honest people and criminals, both positive and negative people, live on the planet Earth, but that does not mean that they are necessarily living together.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U98	Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U99	Good waitress! Would you still explain one thing? You tried to feed the ball, saying that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided not to discuss the question of whether the kapo should deal with asylum seekers or not. But it's in the bill that they should deal with it. This means that the kapo should develop relevant competences, which are very high according to international standards. Otherwise, they will not be able to deal with asylum seekers. We're just writing them into the bill now, not knowing if it makes any sense, whether it's absolutely necessary to mention kapo there. Can you explain to me why the hood's still in there? Why do we put it there if we're not sure? Where are we going with this bill? Why couldn't we just take a few more weeks to make sure it makes sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U100	The Kapo function is still inside, there will be no change in that sense. The question has been whether we're gonna take the kapo out of there. Mr Saar did not make such a proposal. This issue was raised in the fourth round of discussions during the Commission's debate. But indeed, whether or not the kapo should be there was then and is probably still the subject of discussion. However, if we now take two weeks to address the matter again, nothing will probably change in the'regulatory sense'. Indeed, the kapolt cannot take away this function. However, the answer to whether or not it needs to be there may require a thorough review of the functions of the security authorities at all. There is always a very high risk, which I have repeatedly observed in the Commission itself in earlier times, that if a 'ahahaha' is to be changed to some legislative provision, then we may later discover that we have ignored a number of factors. It doesn't make much sense to risk it. The date of entry into force of this law is scheduled for 1 October. And why? This is probably linked to the directive to be adopted in June, and if we want to implement it, the text of the directive will no longer change, but it has not yet been adopted, there is no point in risking that our own law will not enter into force by then. That is why the Commission was of the opinion that we have no reason to open an additional debate at the moment. And when we look at the results of the vote, we see that no one, even any opposition ambassadors, opposed us finishing second reading today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U101	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U102	Good Commission waitress! Certainly, neither you nor, I hope, most members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are unaware of the obligations of Estonia arising from international law. This draft is for people who must receive, if they so request, all the help, including when they met against the Estonian state, also at the appeal level or up to the Supreme Court. They should have objective protection here. In a very number of countries, such steps have been taken, especially in Europe as a result of changes in the last decade, and this has been condemned if both asylum seekers and people who are being expelled are being held in prison territory. Do you think this solution is justified in terms of human rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U103	We discussed this quite thoroughly and the representatives of the government also gave examples that the Estonian solution is not unique at all. It is so arranged in several countries. The question is, above all, optimal spending, whether it makes sense to spend resources on the supervision of several institutions. At the same time, a substantive objective is also important. Understandably, most asylum seekers have no reason to detain, but for those who have reason to be detained, it is important that they are not with prisoners. If they are not with the prisoners, their human rights are fully respected. And for them to be with the prisoners, no one in Estonia has planned, according to my information.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U104	Please, Mr Indrek Saar, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U105	Surely you agree that the way one thing or another looks and the signal it sends to society is as important as ensuring basic human rights. We know that Estonia is one of the most intolerant countries in Europe or even the most intolerant. Send a signal that asylum seekers or refugees are almost criminal, perhaps not the smartest. You say with conviction that this is not a question and that it is just a semantic problem. Would you name a European country where the detention centre is located on the territory of an active prison? How much do you know about such European countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U106	In these documents we have not mentioned these countries. If there's any interest, we'll definitely find them. We didn't have that list on the table in the committee, you were in the committee session yourself. I can rely on the argument that this is the case. As far as semantics are concerned, I absolutely agree. The signal that we are mistreating asylum seekers, although we do not really mistreat them, is certainly a very bad signal and we should not give it. But the signal that we are treating asylum seekers as criminals, in my opinion, neither the drafters nor the practitioners have given it in any way. When you followed my presentation closely, you heard that I stressed the principle set out by the UNHCR representative who participated in our first meeting that asylum seekers should not be considered as criminals even if they have crossed the border illegally if they do not have a visa. This is because the asylum application alone legalises his or her stay in the country. And I repeat that this is, in my opinion, a common understanding among all the Members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U107	Please, Mr Mailis Reps, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U108	Good waitress! Having, I believe, visited most of the major centres of refugee camps in the European Union, I dare to confirm that there really are detention centres on the prison territory. They are mostly detention or pre-trial prisons. But the transfer of asylum seekers to such a place is condemned. And when this is done, usually in those countries where there are unforeseen flows of refugees that cannot otherwise be controlled. Families, minors, and pregnant women with children are certainly not allowed to be placed in such a detention centre. Did you discuss such a clause in your proceedings in the Commission, in which cases you should not send asylum seekers to a detention facility from so-called weaker groups of society?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U109	It is now very important to stress that no one plans to transfer the reception centre of asylum seekers, which is currently in Illuka, to the territory of the prison in Tallinn. It is still a matter of the detention centre, in the current expulsion centre, these are two different things. This second issue, the issue of minors, was also raised in the Commission. Reference was made to Article 11 (2) of the Directive, setting out the circumstances in which a minor should be kept together with the parent. It says that, as far as minors are concerned, they will only be detained together with the parent or the attendant if their separation would put the minor at a disadvantage, it would be harmful for him or her.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U110	Please, my colleague, Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U111	Honourable waitress! Having been active in the construction of a new prison in Tallinn for a long time, I have the following question. In the Commission, did you also address the Government of the Republic, the Ministry of Justice or the RKAS to ask about their more precise plans? I don't remember any of the government's plans, as the opposition ambassadors here are presenting, that someone will be kept in prison mode on the territory of the prison. The government is also very well aware of the requirements of international law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U112	There were no representatives of the Ministry of Justice in the debate. In addition to the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had given its position and its representatives participated in the debate. They didn't see the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U113	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U114	As you pointed out as a wise man, there are both convicts and foreigners on earth together. If they have a different chamber, but the guard is one, are they together or aren't they?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U115	I also read that they have separate catering, separate rooms and separate entrances. I think the guards are different too. But I can't describe this situation more precisely because the planet Earth is exactly the same as there are various guards, but not all people need to be guarded.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U116	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Mart Nutt. I'm opening negotiations. Indrek Saare, colleague of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have discussed here, it is certainly a draft law that contains nuances that are unlikely to get into as we run. In order to understand what one or the other decision we are making here today means, it is probably necessary to take some time to get into them. I myself am a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but, looking at this bill, it seems that we have not been able to dispel a number of questionable issues, as well as certain fears that remain in society when it comes to dealing with this issue. We must first admit that Estonia has not been a very exemplary country. There have been problems in Estonia with the laws and the proper provision of internationally designated services for asylum seekers. For example, none of the people housed in Illuka have received the housing provided by the law, language courses and adaptation training provided by the local government. The Ministry of the Interior generally does not want non-profit organisations dealing with refugees to help people communicate with the state in asylum procedures. For example, we know of a case in which a doctor did not check out the woman who gave birth at the reception center after giving birth. In other words, rather than dealing with the problems of refugees in essence, so that we are a dignified European country that offers protection to the people who need it and ensures that their society is consolidated and well managed in Estonia, we often deal with how to better keep refugees away from the border, send them out faster and keep them locked up more effectively. At least it looks like our government is working on it in the Homeland Department. Ruth Annus, an official representing the Ministry of the Interior, has said in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that the higher number of foreigners in Estonia is automatically strained by the police budget and that these are public order and threats to the security of the state. This shows relatively clearly the country's attitude towards immigrants in general and refugees, including. In other words, rather than increasing tolerance in society, our government has amplified the phobias that Estonian society already has, according to international studies. We have to realise that when we talk about refugees, they are not immigrants, for whom the state itself decides whether or not to allow them to enter the country. These are people whose lives are in danger in their home country or who are being persecuted, so we have an international obligation to protect them. We can only decide whether or not they need real protection, and there is, of course, an extremely wide margin of discretion in practice. Studies in several countries have shown that, unlike migrants who, for economic reasons, move from, for example, North Africa to Europe, who are generally poor and with or without a lower level of education, refugees are generally quite different people. These are people who are fleeing from political, sexual, ethnic or religious discrimination. Often these are highly educated people who do not accept the political situation of their country. As they take a long and difficult journey to find a new homeland, of course, they are more active than average. In Australia, for example, reception of refugees has been found to be beneficial for their economies, as well-educated people, who are smoothly integrated into society, have produced significant added value. Let us look again at this bill, which, as the Commission's rapporteur said, we are not in a terrible hurry at all. Here there are a number of issues that both concern the defence police and the fact that, according to the OECD, we are already the most intolerant country in Europe, by legitimising the draft, we are further amplifying the attitude towards refugees, that they are troublesome people who should be removed or, at least, placed in a properly guarded detention facility. In fact, as we have been told, it is precisely the savings on the cost of guarding that are one of the reasons for this. So the guard is one, although the chambers are different, and that is what makes this solution more effective. It is generally the practice in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that people acknowledge that they will become smarter over time. I can take the example of my colleague, Mrs Linde, who has repeatedly publicly admitted that the process will become smarter. In view of all this, the Social Democrats propose that the second reading of the draft law be interrupted so that we can think about it and that we, or some others, have the opportunity to table amendments again. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U118	Thank you! No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Let us now go to the examination of the amendments. There are three amendments to the draft law, as has already been said. The first is presented and taken fully into account by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The second and third are also presented and taken fully into account by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We have examined the amendments. But right now, the Social Democratic Party Group had to cancel the second reading of draft 354 and we have to vote on it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group 354 to interrupt the second reading. Please vote! 17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 48 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 354 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U119	We will begin the first reading of the draft law 434 on the protection of ambient air initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I beg the Secretary of the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U120	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a draft aimed primarily at ensuring the functioning of the European Union's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system in Estonia and thereby also at reducing the impact of our air pollution on the environment. Very briefly, when we summarise this draft, it can be said that we want to bring Estonia's legal space into line with the relevant directives of the European Union. We are transposing into the law the right number of provisions governing the technical process that have so far been regulated at the level of the Government of the Republic regulation. From now on, it will be established at the level of the law. There are no major fundamental changes in the trading system in question to the draft before you. The draft sets out the objectives of using the proceeds of the sale of allowances as well as the general principles. Auction revenues will be made available to the state budget and, as we know, at least half of them will have to be used to achieve climate-related objectives, such as the transition to less polluting transport, to increase energy efficiency, as well as to support renewable energy. Half of the revenue coming to the state budget this year, or 50%, is directed to KredEx by the state budget law to carry out an energy saving programme for apartment buildings. The draft provides that in the future auction revenue will be allocated on the basis of the ambient air protection law, bearing in mind the far-reaching objectives defined in the national budget strategy and the national budget approved each year by Parliament. The State Budget Strategy until 2017 foresees that quota sales revenues will be used to achieve energy savings in apartment buildings and public buildings, as well as for the deployment of biogas in transport and support for the introduction of small renewable energy solutions. How much are the exact amounts going to be and what targets will be set each year in concrete terms, it will be up to you in this Parliament to adopt the state budget. In order to maximise the number of participants in the auctioning of allowances and to ensure that trading is as active as possible, the draft will allow participation by all investment firms, credit institutions and persons trading securities on their behalf or providing investment services to clients. The Lube needed to participate in the auction will be issued by the Financial Supervision Authority. On the current situation, so much more so that the European Commission is currently preparing for the latest free transfer of emission allowances allocated to companies in 2013. As much has changed this time too in connection with the new period, this draft amends our legislation in accordance with the new system. In the future, the free quota will be transferred to the accounts of the allowance register directly from the European Union account and Estonia and the other Member States will only have a control function, no intermediate function anymore. Honourable Riigikogu, this is a necessary and sensible draft, I ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U121	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. Let's start asking questions. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U122	Minister, you said that at least half of the proceeds will go on. Was it discussed in the government that maybe it should be increased by 50%?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U123	This is not the way the issue was raised in the government. The remaining half of the revenue from the auction will be received into the state budget without any indication of the type of expenditure. This money can be used to cover other necessary costs. If we are talking about sums, because the period is quite long, the new auctioning period for allowances will run until 2020, it is, of course, quite difficult to predict exactly what this revenue will be. There are two different scenarios on the table today. According to one, temporary removal of 900 million units from the quota auction is decided, in particular in the interests of higher prices and higher revenue. According to this scenario, Estonia's income would be slightly over 161 million euros during this period. If the Commission's proposal to temporarily remove 900 million units is not found, Estonia's income will also be much lower. The total amount that we will be able to use will then be estimated to be around 30 million less. This is also the reason why Estonia has very much supported this initiative of the Commission. The revenue of our country would then be EUR 30 million higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U124	No further questions. Thank you once again, Madam Minister. I would like to invite a colleague from the Committee on the Environment, Kaja Kreisman. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U125	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed draft 434 at its meeting on 16 May. Deputy Secretary General Meelis Münt of the Ministry of the Environment and Specialist Jörgen Talkop of the Climate and Radiation Department had been invited to the meeting of the Commission. The Deputy Secretary-General explained the main objectives, content and necessity of the draft law. The aim of the draft is to fully transpose the EU ETS directives introduced in 2009 into Estonian law. In addition, the law makes corrections based on better legal interests, i.e. specifying the obligations of companies to apply for, revoke and suspend emission permits. For example, six days earlier the deadline for the reporting of operators is introduced and a national fee is introduced for the activities of the emissions allowance trading register. Both the opening and subsequent holding of an account shall be taxed. The Act adds two paragraphs which determine the reporting of stocks of prohibited substances and withdrawals from 2015 onwards. The remaining changes concern the application, allocation and use of emission credits. From this year onwards, the state will no longer grant free quota to companies, but will be determined by the European Commission. Some of the quotas are granted free of charge to companies and some are put up for sale by the state. The revenue will be collected in the state budget. On this basis, the law sets general objectives the implementation of which can be financed by revenues from the auctioning of emission allowances. For example, at least 50% of the revenues generated by auctioning allowances from stationary installations and 100% of aircraft operators must go towards climate and cleaner energy targets. We therefore support less polluting transport, renewable energy, energy efficiency, etc. There was no very long debate in the Commission on the draft. Some questions were raised concerning the forecast of unit emission prices in the draft explanatory memorandum and the phantom companies operating in the current quota trading system. Both questions were answered exhaustively. The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu decided to appoint a rapporteur for the commission here, to send draft law amending the law on ambient air protection and related amendments to other laws to the first reading on 22 May, to propose that the first reading be completed and to set ten working days for the deadline for the submission of amendments. All decisions were taken by consensus by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U126	Thank you very much, Mr Kreisman. There are no questions for you. Minister of Agriculture, you are sitting in a place where you are not allowed to sit! This is the seat of a member of the Riigikogu. If you wish to return to the Riigikogu, we are always ready to take you. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft 434 amendments. 5 June at 5.15 p.m. First reading of bill 434 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U127	We begin the first reading of the draft law amending and implementing the law on law enforcement initiated by the Government of the Republic. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Justice of the Speaker's Office, for presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U128	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! It is a great honour for me to stand before you here with one extremely important draft, which has been long awaited for the development of the Estonian legal order. And, of course, if it is so long awaited, it must also be a very good draft. To begin with, I recall what has happened in recent history. The law on law enforcement itself has been dealt with in the Republic of Estonia for a very long time. The Law Enforcement Act was adopted by the Riigikogu in 2011 and there is no time for entry into force in the main text. I'm very conscious of that. The adoption and enforcement of such a large law requires a separate implementation law, and that law is now on the table before you. For the first time, law enforcement law defines concepts such as public order, public supervision, law enforcement body, person responsible for public order, threat to public order, etc. For example, so far there is no single and clear concept of public order and it has been difficult to identify what law enforcement should guarantee. Now, however, about the purpose of the draft law amending and implementing the law on law enforcement. The draft will complete the reform of the Law Enforcement Act already started in the late 1990s in Estonia. The monitoring procedure, carried out by the police as a general police body and by the agencies and inspections as special security bodies, will take place on the basis of uniform principles. If we try to make these principles clear in any way in this Chamber, they could be proportionality, expediency, protection of rights and respect for human dignity. For those subject to national supervision, both regulation and supervisory procedures will become clearer, systematic and better guaranteeing fundamental rights. I believe that this is in the interests of all of us and that, of course, for ordinary citizens, life will also become clearer, particularly in terms of supervision. In my opinion, the greatest value of the draft we are discussing today is better regulation of the fundamental rights of individuals and the fact that these fundamental rights are all enshrined in a single law. If we now take our law enforcement agencies, whether the Tax and Customs Board, which carries out certain law enforcement tasks, or the Environmental Inspectorate or the Technical Supervisory Authority or the Agency, there are more than 160 special laws in Estonia that regulate, for example, how you can enter the premises, how you can take statements from persons, etc. Now these special rules have been incorporated into a single law, and it is easier for a person to find information about the general boundaries of defending order. The main purpose of the draft law amending and implementing the Law Enforcement Act is to make the necessary changes to the Estonian legal order, which would allow the Law Enforcement Act to be applied to the exercise of national supervision by any agencies or inspections. In this context, the draft aims to harmonise and amend the existing specific law on law enforcement governing national supervision. I would like to stress that a considerable debate has already been held on the comprehensive and systematic design of law enforcement law, which was the result of the adoption of the basic text of the Law on Law Enforcement. Today's draft focuses primarily on amendments to the specific laws necessary for the implementation of the Law Enforcement Act. According to the Law Enforcement Act, the police act as a general law enforcement body. It is recalled that the Police and Border Guard Act took over as a temporary solution a number of specific measures and some principles laid down in the previously adopted Law Enforcement Act, but it does not replace the Comprehensive Law Enforcement Act. In addition to the police, there are dozens of special security bodies, such as the Environmental Inspectorate, the Tax and Customs Board, the Medicines Agency, etc., under special laws. The specific measures jointly used by several law enforcement bodies are spread out in law, mostly on an unreasonably different basis and with different content. Although the law on law enforcement adopted creates a comprehensive system of law enforcement law, it is too police-centred and does not sufficiently take into account the specific needs of special security bodies. It has therefore proved that it is essential to make changes to the law itself in order to achieve an optimal balance between the various constitutional values in order to implement the law as without problems as far as possible. This is the case, for example, with regard to the conditions for the application of the special measure in the case of a check on entry and possession. One of the outputs of implementing the Law Enforcement Act is the separation of national supervision from administrative supervision. However, there is a significant difference between who is subject to supervision. Following the entry into force of the Law on Law Enforcement, the Law of the Government of the Republic laying down measures for the exercise of administrative supervision becomes the legal basis for the exercise of administrative supervision. Specific national supervision measures provided for in the Law on Orders have been taken as a model for measures specific to administrative supervision. The special laws also specify where possible and necessary where national supervision is to be carried out and where administrative supervision is to be carried out. This ensures legal clarity and a clearer perception of the law for the addressee of the rule. According to one of the amendments resulting from the implementation of the Law Enforcement Act, the Law Enforcement Act does not extend to the construction, environmental or other permit procedure or to the financial or non-financial support procedure. This is because the authorisation or support is given on the person's own initiative and in order to facilitate his/her activities, but national supervision is primarily aimed at preventing and controlling risks. The implementation of the Law Enforcement Act also harmonises the regulation of the reimbursement of costs of national supervision. In the future, the costs incurred by the national supervisory authority shall, as a rule, be reimbursed by the national supervisory authority, which shall provide for the corresponding amounts in its budget. In addition, the draft clarifies ways of restricting the rights of a number of people in order to better ensure the protection of fundamental rights. The Law Enforcement Act states exactly the circumstances in which a measure restricting the fundamental rights and freedoms of a person may be used by whom and by whom in the exercise of public supervision. At this point, I would like to conclude a brief overview of this draft law, but I am absolutely convinced that, since it is a matter of implementing both an important law and law enforcement law, the debate in the large hall as well as in the committees will be lengthy and thorough. I believe that the Committee on Legal Affairs also considers it necessary to involve the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the procedure of the draft, which could, in particular, analyse the law on the implementation of the law on law enforcement, particularly in terms of the protection of fundamental rights of individuals. But it is indisputably necessary to have a more in-depth discussion and process of the draft within the Commission between the first and second readings, and all interested parties must be directed to it by their entire initiative. We certainly support the Committee on Legal Affairs' proposal to conclude the first reading and to refer the draft to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U129	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask Kalle Laaneti, Vice-Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U130	Thank you, Minister. You have at least one question. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U131	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I looked, but I couldn't find the part about the assistant cop's job. I have a practical question: if an assistant police officer works with a police patrol and measures speed, is he entitled to do so or is he not? I've had one of those moments in my life, and it would be interesting to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U132	The law of an auxiliary police officer should be adopted to respond. There's going to be a co-rapporteur who's just been through an assistant policeman's class. I believe that he will give you a long and comprehensive answer, in which case the assistant police officer may act independently and in which case he may only do so with a police officer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Minister said in his introduction, the law on law enforcement and its implementation has been dealt with for quite a long time. The draft came to the Committee on Legal Affairs on Monday 13 May. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, Adviser Kätlin Ots, Head of the Public Law Service of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, Illimar Pärnamägi and Adviser to the same department Mirjam Rannula, who was only at the second item discussion, Indrek Niklus, Head of the Private Law Service of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, and Kätlin Joala, Adviser to the Estonian Centre Party. As the Minister presented this draft today in this panel, it was also in the Commission. As this is a major bill, the Minister proposed to organise a separate seminar on this issue in order to discuss in more detail the content of the draft. I think I am the only person in the Commission who was present at the discussions on the law of law in the previous composition, and in order to familiarise the other members of the committee with the nuances, such an introductional seminar could really be conducted in the summer. Our members of the Commission agreed to this. As regards the content of the draft law, the Minister has already spoken. However, various questions also arose. The substantive issues directly concerned the implementation of the Law Enforcement Act. Mr Kabrits asked how much the mupo's activities would change, and the minister replied that the mupo was primarily based on the tasks entrusted to the local government and the KOKS. Mr Randpere raised the question of who or what other than the dog could be a service animal, upon which a long debate broke out. That was the way the Commission worked, discussing all the questions in substance. The debate was constructive. What was decided? It was decided to put the draft law on the agenda of the plenary session of 22 May, for which there were 8 members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, against 0, with zero abstentions, to propose that the first reading be completed by 8 votes to 0, with 0 abstentions, and to set the deadline for amendments to be fixed at 4 p.m. on 20 September 2013. The decision was consensual. Why is the deadline for amendments so long? Therefore, in order to give Members of the Commission, as well as other Members of Parliament, the opportunity to have a thorough examination of the draft and, if there is desire and will, to propose amendments. Mr Kalle Laane was appointed rapporteur for the Commission, which was a consensual decision. Recalling Mr Korb's question, I will answer from this remote that an assistant police officer has the right to measure speed with a police officer. To be precise, an assistant police officer can only participate in law enforcement activities with a police officer or under police orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U134	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 424 amendments. 20 September 2010 at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the seventh item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U135	We will move on to the eighth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Financial Supervision Authority Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of the Law on Investment Funds and related amendments to other laws of 430. It is a great honour to ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi for a speech chair in the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U136	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will present to you a draft government that amends a number of laws in the financial sector. Three issues of financial supervision have been incorporated into the draft. Firstly, the requirements for the supervision of financial conglomerates will be amended. The recent financial crisis revealed a shortage of powers for supervisors to intervene in the activities of conglomerates. The European Commission has therefore initiated amendments to the Directive, which will be transposed into Estonian law by this draft. The draft grants greater powers for the supervision of the entire financial group. The problem with the supervision of financial conglomerates was the designation of the target group, so far the supervision of conglomerates has been too burdensome when a financial group of large size is central to a single country. The condition of supervision is that the financial group is international and the assets of the group's smallest bank or insurance business exceed EUR 6 billion. The supervision of financial conglomerates is primarily the responsibility of the countries in which the head offices or ownership companies of the groups are located. There is no such thing in Estonia. It is the responsibility of the Financial Supervision Authority to participate in the exchange of information with the financial supervisory authorities of other countries. The second amendment concerns the operation of alternative funds in the Member States of the European Union in Estonia. The draft provides for documents to be submitted to the Estonian Financial Supervision Authority if the funds wish to start operating in Estonia. The amendments are based on the EU Directive. With the third amendment, the Financial Supervision Authority will be obliged to promote the financial knowledge of residents. So far, the Financial Supervision Authority has been educating residents voluntarily and creating an online environment with an address at www.minuraha.ee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U137	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Minister, thank you. Urve Tiidus, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U138	Good afternoon. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Draft 430, which was just presented by Minister Ligi, was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 13 May, amending the Financial Supervision Authority Act and the Investment Funds Act and related amendments to other laws. At the Commission, Thomas Honourable, Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the objectives and main changes to the law. The debate has clarified a number of issues, which I will also give you a brief overview of. As one of the objectives of the draft law is to strengthen financial supervision of financial conglomerates, or large financial groups, it was wanted to know what impact this bill would have on the workload of our Financial Supervision Authority. It turned out that, as there are no local financial conglomerates on the Estonian financial market, as mentioned above, our Financial Supervision Authority is not the coordinator and functions of any conglomerate, but the inspection itself cooperates with the supervisory authorities of other Member States, which are coordinators of large financial conglomerates. So the Financial Supervision Authority has a role to play in communicating information. More specifically, they wanted to hear about alternative funds. The sector of these funds is known to be of considerable size in the European Union, with assets amounting to EUR 2 trillion. The operation of these funds and their relationship with the amendments to these laws were clarified. As the volume of alternative funds in Estonia falls below the threshold of 500 million euros, the new requirements do not apply to their managers. The question was also about the terminology of the Estonian language, such as the same financial conglomerate and mixed financial management company. The answer was that the translation of the European Directive was based, the terms were professional and, mostly, already used in the law that we have in force. The institutions and people involved are used to terms and there are no better terms in Estonian at the moment. They asked why it is necessary to regulate these financial conglomerates more strongly separately, that this matter has already been regulated. It has already been mentioned here that this is a complex area, financial conglomerates span over several countries, they have many daughters active in different fields. So far, there has been a situation of more financial supervision of banking and insurance in one area or another, but there is a lack of general risk supervision in situations where financial resources are used multiple times in the provision of financial services and products in different sectors. There was also a question of whether there were examples in Europe where existing regulations had been seriously violated, which would confirm the need for this draft. Mr Honourable said that there have been no such cases in our immediate region, but there are very large groups in Europe that operate in several countries with financial assets of around EUR 25 trillion, and there have been situations where supervision has not been sufficiently agreed. It was also stressed that the need for supervision actually appeared before the financial crisis and the financial crisis only confirmed this need. The Commission stated that, given the deadlines for transposition of the directives and the date of entry into force of the draft directive, which is 22 June, it would be possible to deal with this draft before the end of the summer. The members of the Commission were in full agreement on this draft; they agreed that the first reading of the draft would be closed and that the deadline for amendments would be set at 17 May. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U139	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Good waitress, thank you! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 430. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 430 amendments. 5.15 p.m. on 30 May 2008. First reading is complete. I would like to make it clear whether it's 5 p.m. or 5 p.m. 15 p.m.! Two times have been received from the Commission. A microphone for the Urve Wing, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U140	5:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U141	Thank you. I will set the deadline of 30 May at 5 p.m. for the submission of draft 430 amendments. The first reading is closed and the eighth item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U142	We will move on to the ninth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Motor Insurance Act 423 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu! I am pleased that the speech chair of the Riigikogu has arrived with respect from Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U143	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! It is my great pleasure to introduce you to the draft law on motor insurance. Compulsory motor insurance was introduced in Estonia since 1993 to mitigate the consequences of road accidents both for victims and for those who caused these accidents. In the European Union, motor insurance is regulated by a directive which ensures international cooperation in the cross-border movement of vehicles and the protection of victims of accidents. In 2012, Estonian vehicles caused more than 30000 traffic accidents, with a total loss of approximately 40 million euros, including 2300 accidents abroad with a loss of 6.7 million euros. The draft submitted to you for discussion is the full text of the Motor Insurance Act, which preserves the well-functioning principles of the current system, but removes the bottlenecks that have arisen over the years, a number of which are technical. The draft does not lead to a reform of the motor insurance system; rather, the aim has been to develop and modernise the matter. The bill maintains motor insurance as compulsory liability insurance. Every vehicle registered in a traffic register must be covered by motor insurance cover. There are still exceptions to this general rule, but it is important to ensure that the law is supported both by the police and by the Estonian Motor Insurance Fund in order to reduce the number of uninsured vehicles in traffic. That's the bill. Victims of a traffic accident must receive rapid and fair compensation regardless of whether or not they were covered at the time of the accident. This is an international requirement which will also be maintained in this draft. The right of victims of an accident to turn to their insurer for compensation in the event of an accident is important for changes to the bill. The insurer shall compensate for the damage and subsequently recover it from the insurer who caused the accident. It is also important for those affected to see an increase in the compensation limits. In the case of damage to property, it will rise from EUR 1 million to EUR 1.2 million and from EUR 5 million to EUR 5.6 million in the case of personal damage. There is also a significant increase in the amount of non-financial loss insurance from the current amount of EUR 640 to EUR 3200. For the policyholder, the arrangements for concluding the insurance contract will become somewhat simpler. The motor insurance contract will be similar to all other insurance contracts, will be fixed-term (up to one year) and will be confirmed by the policy. Although the primary objective of insurance is to deal with the consequences of an accident, the motor insurance system has always contributed to prevention. For example, in certain cases, the insurer has the right to claim from the perpetrator the damage caused by him, in situations where the perpetrator has behaved particularly risky, it should be said that he is risky. Above all, the cause of an accident is, for example, deliberately or drunkenly. The bill adds three new warranties directly linked to the faulty behaviour of the driver or his employer. It is also new that most of these collateral requirements are subject to a ceiling of up to EUR 3000, which increases the protection of policyholders. Finally. In the insurance sector as a whole, including motor insurance, the ADR system works very well. The draft is also intended to transform the resolution of motor insurance disputes into a conciliation procedure organised by the Motor Insurance Fund. The draft is intended to enter into force on 1 March of the following year; some provisions will be given a slightly longer implementation period to ensure a smoother transition. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U144	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U145	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! There is some kind of contingent in Estonia for people who are collecting cars. These are generally older cars than average, if not called "newer cars." As a result of the lobby of motor insurance companies, we are once again amending the Motor Insurance Act and making the lives of these collectors such as the manager of the motor vehicle. Until now, the existence of tax-free contracts allowed these cars to be kept in the register, and now they must be removed from the register each year or insured for one day. Is there no way that the country can agree that historic vehicles of certain value will be sidelined by this everyday triangulation, because it is not rational and the country must have a uniform view of all citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U146	Thank you. I don't think that's a new problem. But it's two years to cancel the register, not one year. I do not have a very strong conviction in this area about how it is right. We would be happy to consider this issue further in the Commission's debate. In practice, I have no contact with these collectors besides you and certainly not with these cars.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U147	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U148	Thank you, Minister. This bill you're defending here will drag it out of the register for one year. I ask about § 66, which says how the message is sent to the owner of the car, who is subject to compulsory insurance. It says here that the notification of the insurance premium for automatic motor insurance is delivered to the person in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Administrative Procedure Act. The Administrative Procedure Act states that the notification or other document is to be delivered either by post by the administrative body issuing the document or by electronic means. How, then, is this communication really going against the signature by post or is it going to send messages electronically? I don't understand the text of the bill how this message gets through.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U149	Thank you. This shall be done in accordance with the rules of administrative procedure. This is an area where there is always debate, but obviously the three methods must be chosen to be durable. I cannot say that one of these three is necessarily and the other is not. It is necessary to find the method by which the message is best received and the requirements of the law, of course, are also met. We are well aware that we have some difficulty in locating people, because we have not introduced very rigid formal registration rules. Various methods must therefore be provided.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U150	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question concerns automatic motor insurance. Paragraph 60 states: 'The insurance relationship between a motor vehicle insurance company and a person with an insurance obligation arises if, in the case of a vehicle registered in a motor register, the insurance obligation is not fulfilled. " A later paragraph tells us that the rates under which people are to pay for automatic motor insurance are set by the Minister by a decree. On what basis do the Minister establish these rates? What does this calculation mechanism look like and what is the ratio between these rates and those offered by insurance companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U152	Thank you. By law. What will be the exact rate, the poor minister still has to consider. The law should give the authority to deal with it here, but it is probably a mathematically good task to consider risks and losses in such a way that all areas are treated fairly. The minister himself, of course, will not come up with this methodology, but will rely on experts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U153	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U154	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum states that the new whole text of this law has seven purposes. The third is to reduce the participation of uninsured vehicles in traffic. Here is § 78: If there is no insurance, the fine is up to 100 fine units. But even now, the police are controlling the existence of motor insurance, and if you don't, you'll be fined. What, then, is this radically complementary thing that will reduce the participation of uninsured vehicles in traffic? In my opinion, control has been sufficient so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U155	Thank you. I never claimed that this law would change anything radically. On the contrary, I stressed that this was not a reform of the current system, but a development. There are other details that should lead to a decrease in the number of uninsured vehicles, for example, in the case of automatic insurance cover there is a regulation. These details should then be ranked. I certainly can't count everyone right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U156	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U157	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! We hear about the rise in the cost of motor insurance all the time, while traffic statistics show us a very positive change, in particular a reduction in road deaths and an improvement in the overall traffic culture. Has the Ministry of Finance also analysed, in the context of the drafting of this draft, a type of private enterprise maybe a little too strong pressure on the situation that affects the citizens of the Republic of Estonia? What is suddenly the case is that the reduction in road accidents and the improvement in the traffic situation deprives insurance companies of cash flow, and then they try in various ways to exert pressure on the government and, in fact, on the legislator to adopt laws that are beneficial to them. I believe that this price increase is unbridled and that this lobby is felt. I have personally dealt with this issue because I have been one of the opponents of such a motor insurance system.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U158	Thank you. I really feel sorry for you, you probably have a lot of cars, and in that sense your social situation is extremely difficult. As far as the system as a whole is concerned, my surveillance or surveillance nerve has been very sensitive here, and I fully know the risk that there is an economic interest on the one hand and there is a very small number of officials who are familiar with this area in detail on the other. But before I came to this remote control, I calmed down a lot, all I could do was regret your fate. Indeed, the changes that are being made to this law are more consumer-friendly rather than commercial interests. It should also be recalled that the Motor Insurance Fund itself is interested in the least losses and costs possible. He's been our main partner. However, in general, there is a very strong competition in the field, there is still more than one hand of the fingers here, and according to me, the motor insurance sector was loss-making last year, not profit-making. However, damaging action is not sustainable; we all understand it. So in this sense, a more business-friendly behaviour would make sense, but in my opinion, we have rather been out for the interests of the consumer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U159	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U160	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. There are enough cars in Estonia that are not used all year round. The bill now states that if the car is in the register but has not been in traffic for 12 months, i.e. that it does not have insurance, it will be automatically covered on the first day of this year. If last year's car has been insured for at least one day, will the new year begin to count from that one day? Is a one-day motor insurance contract sufficient during the calendar year not to receive such a more expensive fund insurance?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U161	Thank you. I'm supposed to check the minimum insurance period we've had. I don't think it's gonna be changed by this law. However, this is once again one such measure of control of the situation and, ultimately, of reducing insurance costs, so that all cars have contact with control and supervision. However, cars lost somewhere are likely to be involved in traffic, and I assume that such intermediate insurance will have an effective supervisory or control effect. But, of course, you can always cut off a car, and it's an activity of its own.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U162	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U163	Thank you. We recently read in the news that the president's car was driving for two months without insurance. Would it be impossible under the new law, or how would this law regulate such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U164	Thank you. There are sanctions for uninsured driving. I haven't read the news, I don't know how to comment on it. And how can I comment on the president?!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U165	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U166	Thank you! Mr. Minister! Does this law change the role of the motor insurance fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U167	Thank you. There are some minor changes here. I will immediately remember this conciliation procedure, and the Motor Insurance Fund will manage this normal process of general insurance. I don't know what to call anything very basic.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U168	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You will also drive around Estonia from time to time and have seen cars in quite a number of places that have been driving on the streets during the best of their lives, but have been forgotten for a long time now. I'm sure there are cars on the register, but the owner of which may not even remember that he has them or has ever driven them. In your opinion, or in the opinion of the specialists who worked out this law and who understand this thing through and through, as you said, there is also some sort of mitigating mechanism for people who, by chance, are about to receive invoices for exceeding the term of the insurance premium at their own address? Will there be a warning before they are informed that they really have such cars in the register?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U170	Yes, this warning system is described in the law. The possibility of taking off free of charge, as well as the possibility of returning free of charge, is obviously necessary for such people. It is difficult, of course, to distinguish which car is not actually driven, because there is always a percentage of 'illegal' cars, which is why many things have to be written into the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U171	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U172	Mr President! Good minister! Do I understand that this law is being done because a few Estonian citizens do not comply with the law, and everyone else who complies with the law will now be punished for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U173	Thank you. I don't know if you understand. The answer to the question is, I don't know if you understand. But the reasons for the law itself, why the motor insurance fund is set up, are different. They protect both those responsible for the accident and those affected from the risks. This will ensure that the person causing the accident does not suffer an economic disaster if he has to bear the damage, and the other party, the sufferer, will receive the money if he is harmed. It's a system like this, but it's not a law, it's a 1993 one.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U174	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U175	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question concerns one recommendation that you gave to people who have not used a car for a year, the car is uninsured and automatic insurance is not recommended. There's one way to cut off the car. Indeed, according to this law, it is one option and later the car can be reregistered. So far, man has known to pay for the billing. How about in the future, does this law change anything here? If a person goes back on account of his car, will he have to pay for it according to the usual tax, or will it be free of charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U176	It should be free. I myself asked this question, but I am not ready to find it in the text right now. The point is, these operations are free.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U177	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask Kristen Michal, member of the Economic Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U178	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, Before I begin my report, I will say on the last question that yes, this operation is free of charge and that was discussed in the Commission. Last Thursday, 16 May, the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the same draft law on motor insurance. In addition to members and staff of the Economic Commission, a representative of the Government of the Republic, i.e. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, Head of the Insurance Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance Siiri Tõniste and the lawyer of the same department, Linda Tolumees, participated in the discussion. The debate was thorough and there were many questions. I will now try to give a brief overview of what was said and achieved in the Commission. As the Minister introduced the draft in detail, I will dwell a little bit more briefly on its key objectives. Then why do we need this new law? According to its preparers, this is necessary because the old law has become quite difficult to read over time, has become interpretationable in various ways and does not make sense in structure. As the Minister said here, this is a law that has long been made, and such a variety of interpretation and complexity is certainly not in the interest of the future development of either the policyholder or the insurance market. So there is no doubt that there is a need for a new text of the law. What are the main changes the draft preparers want to make, what should the draft entail and why is this draft really needed? Maybe more important then. It is becoming more convenient for people to turn to their motor insurance insurer with a claim for compensation in case of an accident. It's on a case like this when there's damage to property. In the case of personal injury, it is still necessary to turn to the culprit fund, precisely because personal injury often involves very long-term claims, which may extend up to the payment of a pension. So that's why there's a limit. But I dare say that, especially in smaller places where there are no representatives of several insurance companies, it will certainly make people's lives more comfortable. Secondly, the motor insurance contract will become similar to other liability insurance contracts, comparable to other insurances, such as insurance in the form of insurance in the form of insurance in the form of insurance in the form of insurance in the form of insurance in the form of insurance in the form of insurance in the form of insurance in the form of insurance in the form of insurance in the form of insurance in the form of Thirdly, a seasonally used vehicle receives such a seasonal exception that the vehicle may not be insured for a period of up to 12 months, provided that it does not participate in traffic. As has already been noted here, this time is 24 months under the current law. The vehicle can also be temporarily removed from the register. You can delete for up to 24 months, the operation is free of charge, as stated, and this can be done online or in offices on site. The entry then recovers automatically in the register, the person does not have to do anything more and it is just as free. The draft has been redesigned in relation to uninsured vehicles. The Estonian Motor Insurance Fund provides automatic insurance cover for uninsured vehicles, which is actually a new concept. This also means that the owner of such a vehicle must pay the fund an automatic insurance premium for the time not normally covered. In the event of an accident caused by an over-the-counter vehicle, the injured party receives compensation from the fund, which is still the case and the perpetrator must bear only the amount of the liability and not the total loss. This is a novel solution throughout the construction and the aim is still to protect as many parties as possible. Fifthly, it is important that, in the event of damage to vehicles, priority is given to financial compensation for vehicle repair. The aim is to achieve a situation that is as close as possible to the pre-accident situation and, on the other hand, to prevent vehicles that are poorly recovered from returning to traffic for some reason and to reduce fraud in the sale of vehicles with hidden defects. This is certainly not an absolute precept; it is possible to agree otherwise. If agreed, the compensation may also be financial, that is stated in the law. It is important for everyone that the treatment of damages becomes faster. The insurer must start compensation within 30 days of receiving the claim for compensation. In the current law, it is only for it to decide, within that same period, whether or not to pay compensation. So everything gets faster for people. As the Minister pointed out, there are three new grounds for recovery which are directly linked to the faulty violation of the driver or employer. The driver responsible for the insurance case of recovery shall be presented, firstly, if he has exceeded the speed limit of 41 kilometres per hour and, secondly, if he has caused an accident by ignoring the police stop signal. Recovery shall be made against the employer if the driver has infringed the requirements of working and rest periods and has therefore caused an accident. Most recoveries are subject to a ceiling of up to EUR 3000. The planned date of entry into force of the Act is 1 March 2014 and some provisions will be put into effect on 1 October 2014. I am now talking about the questions that were raised in the Commission during the debate on this draft, in the order that they were presented and discussed. There was an interest in the possibility for the vehicle owner to turn to his insurance company to deal with traffic damage. As I said, this is possible in the event of material damage. If personal damage occurs, then the guilty insurance company must still be contacted. But since most traffic damage cases are only material damage, people's lives will hopefully be more comfortable. Interested in the exact functioning of the automatic insurance system. It was discussed in greater detail. The overall conclusion is that both the victim and the perpetrator will receive protection with the automatic insurance system. The Motor Insurance Fund compensates the injured party for the damage and does not fully claim the defendant for what could be done under the current law. Of course, automatic insurance cover is not free of charge. The Motor Insurance Fund will regularly compare the Road Administration and the motor insurance register and send a reminder to vehicle owners to enter into an insurance contract or to change vehicle registration data. They asked why the deadline for the entry into force of the new law was in March 2014. Since this is a pretty large bill concerning a number of persons, it is quite natural. In addition, IT systems need to be modified and improved and a transitional period is granted. One important question was whether the new law could lead to a change in the insurance tariff. On this point, the drafters said that the direction and size of its impact were unclear. On the one hand, there is an increase in insurance cover that can actually raise this price. At the same time, as the Minister mentioned here and the Commission was also talking about, the field of motor insurance is extremely competitive. Last year, however, losses were recorded in the field of motor insurance. This shows that competition is very intense in this market, which keeps the price below. So it's hard to judge. In general, it was thought that the cost of motor insurance might even be most affected by the road conditions of this year, the length and severity of winter and the behaviour of people on the road at that time. A longer debate was on the subject of trailers. The question was asked why both the current Motor Insurance Act and the draft in question impose an obligation on trailers that are unable to move themselves. There was a long discussion about when the trailer could start moving on its own. In general, it was agreed in the Commission that there would be further discussion between the first and second readings in the working groups and that there would also be contacts with professional organisations on the way the trailers are moving and whether the vehicle insurance covers trailers or must be secured separately. It was asked to clarify how it should work in order to obtain a 12-month exception for the insurance of its vehicle. This exception, which is also included in the new law, is the same exception to the seasonality. In this case, just 12 months after the last contract has ended, the vehicle must not be in traffic and it is possible not to pay. When 12 months are full, a reminder comes from the motor insurance fund. There was also a question of automatically extending insurance contracts. In the future, the law prohibits insurers from offering contracts that are automatically extended, so that the customer can make his own choice. However, if the customer has not announced the term of the new contract before the contract expires, it is actually possible to switch to a new contract with the same company or with the same insurance company and to find out about the terms and conditions of the new contract. They asked why institutions such as the Defence Forces, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Defence Police Department etc. have been exempted from insurance obligations, but for example the ambulance and the Rescue Board have not been released. The answer is that it is a matter of national law, a matter of national law. Many of these vehicles are actually insured and the ambulance does not qualify for this exemption because the ambulance is not necessarily State-owned and therefore the State cannot bear this obligation in the future. They then asked why the duration of the contract was one year and how the new insurer could be convinced that the vehicle was not yet covered by the old contract. The law also states that if the old treaty is in force, no new contract can be concluded after that time. It can be checked from the motor insurance fund's website, so it is not very complicated. It was asked that, according to the new law, compensation for insurance losses should start no later than 30 days after the application was submitted, but whether the owner of the vehicle has the right to request a quicker procedure (reimbursement costs for the rental car, etc.). Under the new law, as I mentioned earlier, the first compensation payment must have been made within 30 days, the following payments will naturally depend on the amount of the compensation, the severity, etc., and may last for years. It was also mentioned that the acceleration of disbursements is quite a serious challenge for insurance companies. But I think, in general, it is in the interests of the consumer, so let it be a challenge. There was also a question of how the law regulates the areas of validity of motor insurance. They're actually quite well pointed out. Longer discussions were held on the ferry. In the new law, their protection will be wider. While domestic regular services are currently covered, barges from Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, loading and unloading are also covered, the bill also covers international regular shipping vessels that have docked in the port of Estonia. The accident that happens in the port of Helsinki, for example, is resolved according to Finnish law. There were other questions about the attitude of the various parties. It was argued that the coordination process has been long, this subject has been dealt with. The last more substantive question came from one of my fellow Members who asked whether the road safety contributions were strictly gender-neutral. It was concluded that the Insurance Act prohibits taking different forms of remuneration depending on gender. The Economic Commission decided by consensus to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5 June at 5 p.m. Since this is a very broad bill concerning the circle, we look forward to dealing with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U179	Thank you. Dear waitress, there is at least one question for you. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U180	Thank you, Mr President. A good rapporteur from the Commission, thank you for a very thorough review. I'm sure a number of questions have already been answered here. I'll come back to that message. Some time ago, we were here dealing with waste management and waste management, and then we were reassured that everything was organized, reports were coming in. In the end, when you were in your government, you must also have encountered people's tempestful resentment that they only received the message when their bills were overdue and were often in the process of communicating with other authorities. How are you now trying to create a situation where those people who, after 12 months, will automatically start paying for cars in the courtyard, which they no longer remember, will get the message before they get the bills to the bailiffs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U181	Thank you. We have indeed, as you say, talked about the rules of delivery in different areas before. That is one quite important question in Estonia, is how the state, state institutions and other institutions interact with people. We have taken various steps up to the social networks, which we have discussed at the trial. It's been dealt with. I will look at your question rather than at heart, and in the course of the procedure we will examine this matter. This is certainly an important question. That's one. Secondly, I cannot imagine a person in Estonia who would forget in 12 months that he had a car. Rather, we need to look at the same thing here so that the message arrives and the right person gets it. So we're dealing with this in the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U182	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U183	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Did the Commission also discuss how much useful working time will be wasted while people are forced to take their property into the register, take it down, take it back into the register, set it down and reaccount?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U184	Thank you. In this order, this was not discussed in the Commission. However, as I described earlier, it is possible to withdraw from the register both online and in offices. It is made as simple and comfortable as possible and free of charge.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U185	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U186	Thank you. Good colleague! Listening to the answers to our questions, to the Minister and to your answers, it gives the feeling, frankly, that all the changes to this bill are more linked to the insurance market than to improving traffic on our roads. Am I wrong about my feelings?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U187	Thank you. Feelings aren't facts. I'm talking about my experience. I think a lot of people have a lot of experience with motor insurance. I remember a long time ago arguing with the insurance company about which company was repairing a car that had been through an accident. At least at the time, it was, of course, a long time ago, about when animals were talking about the insurance company still preferred a much cheaper company than the one I would have liked to take the car to. I don't remember how it worked out, but I remember I had to work. By this, the law we are discussing is against people who can choose their own workshop. Similarly, the insurance company will certainly again be willing to offer that you may want to repair it, in this company or in this company, that they may be covered by a certain guarantee. Secondly, the fact that it is no longer the case that, within 30 days, a simple decision is made, and now there is immediate compensation. I think it's in your interest, in my interest and in the interests of all motor insurance consumers at all. As far as insurance companies are concerned, I will say once again: as the Minister, I always take my guard when something may be in the interests of an organisation. If I remember correctly, as Minister of Justice, I may have sent back the same law on motor insurance twice. I believe that this law has improved, and if there are some things here that do not respond to the interests of the consumer, but to the interests of someone else, it will come out in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U188	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U189	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have been asked this question, and I am now asking you: can you tell me whether a tape tractor from the previous regime must have motor insurance?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U190	I'm sorry, I left the law on that table, but according to memory, there are certain differences concerning closed road sections and agricultural tools that drive. In some cases, this must be insurance. I'll check the law later, and then I'll tell you exactly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U191	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Riisalu, representative of the Central Party of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U192	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The subject is topical and serious enough not to let this thing just go. I was a member of the economic committee in the previous Riigikogu, and the discussions on the current Motor Insurance Act were very passionate at the time. In fact, a quite good solution was found and, in my opinion, a viable solution in today's circumstances. Since the Commission's waitress loved to talk about personal experience, I dare to do the same. There is a well-established insurance broker system in Estonia, they offer you the best solutions and in fact people are more or less satisfied with the current situation. The old law also allows for a so-called non-payment-free insurance contract, and insurance brokers will be happy to formalise them. This does not mean that you have to go to a car registration centre, which is a problem in itself, because the e-car register does not work and operating in a live order is, to say the least, very exhausting for an active member of society. The current system has gotten pretty well in place. When it comes to trailers, I argue that the laws must be reasonable, and, for example, the part of the motor insurance law that exists is reasonable. As a practitioner, I dare say I'll secure my ten trailers for a year, it's not expensive, and I know I don't have a problem with that. The situation becomes much more complicated when people's passions, hobbies and history start to come into play. Right now, motor insurance provides that a car should be such an eternal thing. This option doesn't fit that someone may be stopping an emotionally important car. He would no longer undergo a technical inspection, but people do not want to delete him from the register; he has some historical or even cultural value for them, i.e. he does not want to lose this car. For some reason, however, the state has started to fight through the insurance system to get people to take their cars to scrap metal, to erase them at the expense, to get rid of this burden. For some reason, the state has forgotten that there is also a technical inspection obligation, which is monitored much better by the police in normal traffic. And if anyone wants to smoke, they'll still find some old car on the edge of the fence that they needed to blow in to make a mess of traffic. It's not like you can eradicate stupidity from society to the end. Again, when it comes to personal experience, motor insurance companies and insurance brokers are more or less able to do their job. When a motor insurance fund comes into play, it gets out of hand, because it's like a federal coercion. And I remember again from my experience how I paid about a dozen tickets for not having signed even that car insurance contract without payment because I couldn't get that information. The question of how this information came to me was not answered by the Minister today and was not quite well answered by the Commission's rapporteur. But I'm saying I don't believe in my country anymore when he's punishing me for what I didn't know I had done anything wrong. It is not necessary for ordinary citizens to be able to understand that in the meantime Parliament and the government have adopted some kind of legislative amendment. It doesn't relieve him of his responsibility, but look, we're creating a national coercion to hog our citizens. And that's not fair. It is not fair in the sense that once again, it is figuratively happening that we are, as if, in ourselves and the rest of the people should see for themselves how. The laws must be reasonable. I find it quite difficult to understand how this so-called rest period is now shortening again from two years to one year. I'll take extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U193	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U194	This is clearly a lobby made by the direct managers of the motor insurance fund; they have also personally addressed me as a member of the Riigikogu on this issue. The question is that the cash flow ran out, and now it's really nice for them to start writing out new bills again. Let's go around the law for a while and start sending people out penalty money, and the fools will pay. Those who have not noticed that there is one thing that has not been done in one way or another are certainly quite a lot. By the way, now dead people are also going to get insurance claims. Very many heirs have not even been able to delete a dead person's car from the register, because if the legacy has not opened, it will not be possible to perform operations with it. This list could continue indefinitely. But the biggest tragedy is that no one takes into account one very narrow but specific interest. Every citizen has the right to have his or her own interests in his or her own country. I am talking about collectors who have really worked hard to ensure that Kuusakoski does not process cars from the occupying countries, by the way, even cars arriving in the United States of America have a great deal to do in Estonia, so that these cars do not go to Kuusakosk. The car has some value at the moment it's on the register. And now my country is suspecting me and my co-thinkers, literally all the time, with a tendency to crime, that I'm going to crash some 1938 American car in traffic. This car doesn't even drive me because it hasn't passed a technical inspection, and technical inspection isn't even the cheapest fun, by the way. He's just standing somewhere, he's there, and he has some value, but it's a country that absolutely doesn't count. That's not fair! I say once again that we are quite sure to be under the influence of the narrow lobby group by this law, and we are going to go this way again, that we will give the motor insurance fund the opportunity to write out dozens and dozens of bills to people just because they live in the Republic of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U195	Thank you very much. Any more requests for negotiation? There's no more calls. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 423. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft 423 amendments. 5 June at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U196	We are going to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Feedingstuffs, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U197	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Law on Feedingstuffs aims to bring the provisions on the handling and use of feed containing animal protein and the recognition of establishments into line with European Union law. The main need to amend the law is that the ban on the feeding of processed animal proteins from non-ruminants has been relaxed at European Union level. Currently aquaculture animals are authorised to feed fish meal and feed containing blood meal from non-ruminants. From 1 June 2013, the possibility of feeding aquaculture animals with other feed containing animal proteins from non-ruminants shall be added. Thus, the market for feed used in aquaculture is expanding and Estonian fish and cancer farmers have the opportunity to feed fish and crustaceans with protein of more diverse origin. Since protein derived from non-ruminants and feed containing such protein are only allowed to be produced and fed under specific conditions, the provisions of the current law have been amended accordingly. In addition to the above, this draft law clarifies the issue of the recognition of feed businesses. Since the highest health risks in the food and feed safety field in the European Union have started in recent years, it has been decided at European Union level that, in order to improve feed hygiene and reduce the risk of contaminated products entering the food chain, establishments producing feed materials (e.g. fatty acids and mixtures of fats) from the oil industry should be recognised in accordance with the hygiene regulation. Prior to the amendment of the Union hygiene Regulation, the feed business operator was obliged to recognise the establishment if it produced or marketed certain additives or premixtures or compound feed containing certain additives. As a result of the changes made to the European Union's hygiene regulation, the text of the feed law will be clarified. The final objective of the amendments to the feed law is to ensure a high level of traceability and consumer protection throughout the feed and food chain, to improve feed hygiene and to reduce the risk of contaminated products entering the food chain. The amendment of the Act does not entail any additional activities or costs for the State or local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U198	Thank you very much. Any questions? Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U199	Good manager! Good minister! Have any Estonian entrepreneurs already taken an interest in making the protein from reproduction feed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U200	As far as I know, there are no companies in Estonia that would be subject to this amendment. All such feed shall be purchased, including fish feed, but it shall not be excluded that such establishments will emerge in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U201	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Please ask Meelis Mälberg, Member of the Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U202	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Commission discussed draft law amending the Feed Law, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 431 at its meeting on 14 May. Pille Tammemägi, Deputy Head of the Food Safety Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, presented the draft to the Commission. I will not go back to the content of the draft law, because the Minister for Agriculture did so very thoroughly. This draft consists of three points and fits on one page. During the process and during the answer to questions, the members of the Commission learned that aquaculture animals are fish and crustaceans within the meaning of the law. According to the Finnish Veterinary and Food Board, the companies affected by this legislative amendment are 40 in Estonia, 24 of whom are involved in fish farming and 16 are involved in cancer farming. The Commission decided to propose to the Assembly to close the first reading of draft 431. The decision was consensual. Secondly, it was decided to propose to the Assembly that the deadline for submitting draft 431 amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 31 May 2013. There were 6 members of the Commission with 0 votes against and 2 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U203	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U204	Good manager! Good waitress! Can you tell me how much animal waste accumulates a year that can be used to make protein bait for fish and crustaceans?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U205	According to this draft, food intended for fish and crustaceans cannot be made from all waste containing animal protein, only from slaughtering waste of chickens and pigs. But I really can't say the amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U206	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The position of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 431. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. 1 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 10th item on the agenda is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U207	Let us move on to the 11th item, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please beg Riigikogu's speech chair Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U208	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Ministry of Agriculture has prepared a draft law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union. The amendments to the draft can be divided into three parts: (1) conferring powers for the application of the common agricultural policy, establishing orders or orders; (2) making the Leader approach and decision-making process more transparent and clear; (3) updating the provisions on the recovery, repayment, deferral and calculation of interest on the amount to be recovered. I will stop at all these amendments in turn and as clearly and intelligibly as possible. Firstly, the powers to apply the common agricultural policy, to establish an individual act. The aim of the amendments is to give a mandate to the Government of the Republic and the Minister of Agriculture to regulate a case-by-case procedure where this is necessary for the application of the common agricultural policy of the European Union on a matter the decision of which, under European Union law, a Member State is entitled to decide. It is not always necessary or appropriate to establish a legislative act for the application of the common agricultural policy. According to European Union legislation, the Government of the Republic may also need to issue orders and the Minister of Agriculture may need to issue decrees. It is not possible to provide for cases in which an administrative act is to be adopted under this mandate for the application of the common agricultural policy, depending on decisions taken by the Commission or the Council of the European Union which are compulsory for the implementation of the common agricultural policy by the Member State. In order to ensure that the common agricultural policy of the European Union is applied in exceptional circumstances, it is necessary to lay down in law a basic rule for the establishment of individual acts. Secondly, we want to increase the transparency of the management of local action groups within the framework of the Leader approach. The Leader approach works through local action groups that develop and implement local development strategies. The LAG must emerge on the initiative of the community itself, the community must set the priorities for local development itself and decide which projects will best contribute to local development. As local action groups act in the form of non-profit organisations, the general meeting of local action groups has so far been voted under the Non-profit Association Act, under which the representative of the member may participate in the general meeting and vote. The rural development plan provides that local action groups must be open to the admission of new members, while some worrying developments have emerged in practice in this regard. In particular, taking advantage of the openness of the local action group, its membership will only be brought to the fore in order to influence the decision-making process of the local action groups through them. In the worst case scenario, this leads to a situation where, in the shadows behind the other members, a narrow circle of people essentially takes over the leadership of the local action group. This entails the risk that local development strategies and projects implemented through support will no longer reflect the priorities of the local community in a balanced way, but will benefit from the interests of individual individuals. In addition, it should be borne in mind that local action groups carry out administrative tasks. Their governance must therefore be fully transparent. Consequently, we have provided in the draft an amendment according to which the same person may participate in the general meeting of the local action group and vote as a representative of only one member, nor may a member of the local action group participate in the general meeting or vote as a representative of another member. The change will result in greater transparency in the governance of local action groups and will influence their members to participate actively in the group's decision-making process. This will increase the contribution of each individual member to the functioning of the local action group, as well as the responsibility for the results of the implementation of the local development strategy. Thirdly, the law updates the provisions on recovery, repayment, deferral of repayment and the calculation of interest on the amount to be recovered. The need for change is due to changes in EU legislation. Up to now, the beneficiary was obliged to repay the aid to be recovered within 90 calendar days of the date of entry into force of the decision to recover the aid. The amendment requires the beneficiary to repay the refund to be recovered within 60 calendar days or within the time limit laid down in the relevant regulations of the European Union, from the date of notification of the decision to recover the refund. As a result of the amendment, the set-off of the aid may be made only after the expiry of the time limit laid down in the recovery decision. As of the date of entry into force of the decision to recover the aid, set-off could still be made. The amendment provides the beneficiary with a voluntary repayment period during which it is not justified to take other measures to reimburse the grant. The law rewords the provisions governing the compulsory execution of a recovery decision. According to the current law, the PRIA has an obligation to submit a recovery decision to enforcement if the decision is not complied with within the time limit. The amendment retains the discretion of the PRIA to enforce the decision if it is possible, within a reasonable time, to offset the refund to be recovered against the amounts of aid paid to the beneficiary. It is not appropriate to impose enforcement, which is a much more costly and presumably more time-consuming procedure, if the PRIA is aware of the possibility of offsetting the refund to be returned within a reasonable period of time. The amendment to the deferral of the reimbursement of the aid to be recovered provides that repayment can only be deferred if the beneficiary has submitted a reasoned request and a timetable for reimbursement before the expiry of the repayment period. The possibility that the PRIA may have invalidated the deferral decision in the event of non-compliance with the repayment schedule is deleted from the Act and that the beneficiary of the grant should be given a deadline for the reimbursement of the second grant. According to the new wording, in such a case, the PRIA shall invalidate the decision to defer repayment of the grant and give the recovery decision to compulsory execution. At the same time, the PRIA may decide that the recovery decision shall not be enforced if within a reasonable time it is possible to offset the refund to be recovered against the new aid paid to the beneficiary. The amendment excludes all interest related to late payment from the law. Given that European Union law does not oblige a Member State to claim interest on recovery of the grant, it has been decided to waive the possibility of applying interest on late payment. The methodology for calculating interest was amended in European Union legislation, resulting in interest being taken forward in accordance with the same principles as interest on late payment, which would lead to interest and interest on late payment having the same meaning in the future and would not be appropriate to apply them at the same time. The draft provides for a new methodology for calculating interest rates. The interest shall be calculated from the expiry of the time limit laid down in the recovery decision until the recovery of the aid, until the final repayment in the event of repayment, or until the deduction by offsetting. Please support the draft submitted to the members of the Riigikogu! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U209	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U210	Good manager! Good waitress! If the repayment period was reduced from 90 calendar days to 60, then maybe you should look at the other half. The PRIA currently pays money within 90 working days. Perhaps it would be right for the PRIA to pay the applicant money within 60 calendar days?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U211	Thank you for your question. If you have read the draft carefully, in fact, it is in the interest of the applicants who have made the draft, that they should be able to recover, reschedule and possibly set off, and that the draft will make their situation more favourable. So in that sense, there's relaxation from this side. Secondly, 90 days is generally the maximum period for investment grants to the PRIA. There are situations in which payment has taken place over a longer period of time, and this possibility is due to the law. There are also situations where this is done much faster. Perhaps you have not noticed much, but in the case of direct payments, money is paid out very quickly. Estonia is probably the only country in the European Union to pay out all national direct payments faster than in a month, i.e. in less than 30 days, when the possibility of granting grants is opened. So this 90 days is not an absolute rule and such a comparison is perhaps not quite adequate because the grants are different, the procedures are different and the situations are different.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U212	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Ester Tuiksoo, member of the Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U213	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the draft Act amending the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 432 on 14 May. The Commission was invited by Anneli Kimmel, Head of the Local Initiative and Environment Bureau of the Rural Development Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, who gave an overview of this draft law. The Commission's discussion also raised some questions. The longest discussion involved the Leader Forum and the Leader action groups, they wanted to know how it was represented. Anneli Kimmel replied that representatives of NGOs, companies and municipalities can only represent their own company in which they are working when making their decision at the round table and that they cannot have more powers. That was the main subject of discussion. The Committee on Rural Affairs decided to appoint a rapporteur for the draft, to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 22 May 2013, to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed and to set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft by 31 May at 16 a.m. All decisions were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U214	Honourable waitress, thank you. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The position of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for tabling 432 amendments. 1 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 11th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U215	We will move on to the 12th item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Construction Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please beg Riigikogu's speech chair Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U216	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The need to amend the Construction Act was due to the fact that Regulation (EU) No 305/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products and repealing Council Directive 89/106/EEC would become fully applicable from 1 July 2013. Currently, the Construction Act contains a number of provisions necessary for the transposition into national law of the Construction Products Directive 89/106/EEC, which would now be incompatible with this by the entry into force of the directly applicable Construction Products Regulation (e.g. the term 'declaration of performance' is used instead of 'declaration of conformity'). Some of the relevant provisions are also laid down in the Product Compliance Act and their reproduction in the Construction Act is not necessary. Both the Construction Products Regulation and the Product Conformity Law regulate the conformity assessment of a product and the issues of a notified body. For the above reasons, some of the provisions of the Construction Act are amended and some are repealed. The use of non-industrially untreated natural construction material or traditionalally manufactured national construction product is permitted as an innovation. This refers to materials which are not manufactured industrially in large lots and for which it is not reasonable to formalise any specific documents, as they depend on the natural environment and are not treated as standard before use, such as hand-cut bulk logs, straw packets, on-site clay plaster, roofing, etc. If these materials are used, it must be taken into account that the building as a whole meets the essential requirements to be met. The essential requirements of the building are requirements for mechanical durability and stability, fire safety, hygiene, health and the environment, safety of use and noise protection, in addition to requirements for energy efficiency and insulation and the sustainable use of natural resources. This provision also supports the principles of the Construction Products Regulation on sustainable and environmentally friendly construction. The deadline for the entry into force of the Act is 1 July 2013. Please support the draft law submitted to the members of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U217	Thank you very much. You have questions too. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U218	Thank you, good manager. Sir, I'd like to thank you very much. How do you personally feel about the impact of this bill on the construction sector and construction materials industry of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U219	Thank you. My personal feeling, of course, may not be based on facts, but I think the effect is positive. This is because part of the draft is about legitimising the possibility of using local traditional building materials and introducing them simply, without excessive bureaucracy. I hope that now you can also put a roof of local cane on your home in Saaremaa. This will improve the environment, the sea will be cleaner, the cane will be freer, and you will get a roof of nature-friendly and very healthy material.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U220	Thank you. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U221	Thank you. In your speech, you said that one of the reasons for the creation of this draft law was that the European Union directive, which was previously in force, went directly into a regulation. Can you tell us the difference between this directive and the regulation? Have conditions become more difficult or easier for businesses or how these things have been unwritten there?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U222	No, there will be no major changes. These are the changes that I was talking about, so far these changes have been made. It is basically a technical draft and nothing in principle has changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U223	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Minister of Agriculture. I would like to ask Olga Sõtnik, member of the Chair Committee on Economic Affairs, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U224	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs on 13 May 2013. Apart from the members and officials of the Commission, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and the expert of the Quality Infrastructure Department of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Margus Tähtepõld, were invited to attend, giving an overview of the objectives and content of the draft and answering questions. There were two questions, both from the present speaker. One of my questions concerned these same natural materials and the other concerned the entry into force of the law. Indeed, the implementing provisions state that the law should enter into force on 1 July, the same day as the European Union regulation enters into force. However, it seems that we will not be able to process the draft so quickly that the law will enter into force on 1 July. This is why there will be amendments between the first and second readings, and we will amend that provision. At the end of the debate, three decisions were taken: to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 22 May, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 29 May 2013. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-22_U225	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thanks a lot, Olga Soldier! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 429. The first reading is closed and the deadline for tabling 429 amendments is s. May 29th, 5.15 p.m. Today's agenda is exhausted. I wish everyone a beautiful evening and see you next time! Closure of the sitting at 4.35 p.m.
