ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the 11th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. First of all, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, Aivar Rahno!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic shall submit a draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'approval of a draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Republic of Cyprus'. The government is represented in the Riigikogu when the bill is processed by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The Government of the Republic requests that this draft be treated as an urgent matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U3	Thank you. Please, Mr Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Committee of the Riigikogu initiates a draft decision on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund. As the mandate of member of the Supervisory Board Raivo Vare expires on 12 May, a new member of the Supervisory Board must be appointed in accordance with the Estonian Development Fund Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U5	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 15 members of the Riigikogu, I will report an inquiry to Jaan Männik, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. The Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank is the supervisory body of Eesti Pank, whose competence includes the distribution of Eesti Pank's profits according to the Act and the approved profit distribution strategy of the Supervisory Board. In 2011, Eesti Pank achieved a profit of 22.7 million euros, of which the Supervisory Board decided to devote three quarters to the central bank's reserves and a quarter, or 5.7 million euros, to the 2013 state budget. The most important part of Eesti Pank's income in 2011 was the joint activity of the Eurosystem, which was monetary policy and cash issuance. The revenue in this area was EUR 20,2 million. On 21 February this year, the Governing Council of the European Central Bank approved the European Central Bank's 2012 audit financial report, according to which the European Central Bank's profit was above EUR 2.1 billion last year. Interest income of EUR 2,3 billion was a major contribution to this return in 2012, of which 1.1 billion was net interest income on securities purchased under the securities markets programme. Of this, EUR 555 million was received from Greek bonds purchased by the European Central Bank under the Securities and Markets Programme. At the same time, the Eurogroup ministers have decided to return the earned interest income to Greece, but since the central banks are independent, the governments will return the interest payments of Greek bonds bought together by the European Central Bank on the amount of their profits entered into the state budget by the central bank. As a result of this situation, we have four questions for Jaan Männik, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U7	Thank you. Please, Mr Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U8	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Environmental Committee of the Riigikogu initiates a draft law amending § 131 of the Waste Act. I'm handing over the bill to amend the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U9	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted three draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to process them within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. Ladies and gentlemen, I will take the President's five-minute break. That means we'll proceed at 1 5.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U10	Ladies and gentlemen, the President's break is over. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed the leading committees to them: Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of the Republic of Estonia. A draft of the decision of the Riigikogu "Appointing the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Mart Laari Eesti Pank" submitted on 9 April, the commission of which is the Committee on Monetary Affairs; Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of the Republic of Estonia. A draft of the Riigikogu decision "Appointing the Chairman of the Supreme Court of Priit Pikamäe," submitted on 9 April, is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; in the Group of the Estonian Central Party. a Draft Act amending the State Death Allowance Act, initiated on 10 April, of which the commission is the Social Affairs Committee; in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. a draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act, initiated on 11 April, of which the commission is the Social Affairs Committee; the Government of the Republic. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Republic of Cyprus' submitted on 15 April, the commission of which is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded to the European Union Affairs Committee the Government of the Republic. a two drafts submitted on 11 April. Firstly, the government has submitted a draft European Union cyber security package. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the National Defence Committee, the Economic Affairs Committee and the Legal Affairs Committee to give an opinion on the positions, joint communication and draft of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 25 April 2010 at 4 p.m. Secondly, the Government has submitted a draft decision of the Council of the European Union authorising the European Commission to open negotiations for the renewal of the Council of Europe Convention on the protection of individuals with regard to the automated processing of personal data and to lay down the conditions for accession to the European Union Convention. The Board of the Riigikogu did not appoint any committee to give an opinion on the positions and draft of the Government of the Republic. This is the first time this has happened. I have forwarded enquiries from members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Culture Rein Lang and the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkogu. Members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs will begin shortly after the President has announced a break. The chairman's break begins in 20 minutes. We'll proceed at 3:32.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, the President's break is over. We now have a good chance of making a presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18. Ladies and gentlemen, let us go to the adoption of this week's agenda. An addition has been made to the agenda. The Committee on Finance has proposed to add the following to this week's agenda: First, to add a second item on the agenda of Wednesday 17 April, the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled 'Accepting the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Republic of Cyprus'. Secondly, add a second item on the agenda of Thursday 18 April, the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Accepting a draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Republic of Cyprus' when the first reading is closed. Together with these two additions, I will put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 75 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, one against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed. Now the next message. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has decided to convene an additional session of the Riigikogu in the Chamber of Toompea Castle on Thursday 18 April at 5 p.m. on the proposal of the Finance Committee, in the event of a second reading of draft 419. a On 18 April, the ordinary session will not be closed. The additional session shall run until the agenda is exhausted. The agenda for the additional session is as follows: the continuation of the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Republic of Cyprus' presented by the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U12	Let's start with the first question. Members of the Riigikogu Priit Toobal, Viktor Vassilyev, Peeter Võsa, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Ester Tuiksoo and Enn Eesmaa submitted a s. a on 27 February, an inquiry into the reform of the ambulance and the future of the ambulance service. Please, colleague of the speaker's desk, Priit Toobali!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U13	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Minister. On 27 February this year, seven members of the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. This inquiry, as the president has already said, concerns the future of ambulance reform and ambulance services. At the beginning of this year, a goodwill agreement was signed which provides for activities to clean up the ambulance network, taking into account the development plan for the ambulance for the years 2007 to 2013. The agreement includes that the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Health Board and the Estonian Ambulance Association will agree and submit by 1 May 2013 at the latest to all parties for approval the availability and quality standards of the ambulance service, the number of ambulance crews and regional location based on the location of the active treatment hospitals, as well as the requirements for the composition, qualification and equipment of the ambulance crew.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U14	Excuse me, Mr Toobal! Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to what Mrs Toobal is saying.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U15	Thank you. Despite the agreement, the ambulance reform was launched earlier, leading to widespread dissatisfaction among rural elders, local government leaders and people living in the region. The competition for ambulances was examined by the Competition Authority. The main reason for dissatisfaction is that the Health Board has little or no involvement of local government leaders and local residents and has not provided sufficient information to them. Dissatisfied with an appeal signed by 3066 Lakemen. People are calling for a halt to the ambulance reform because they believe that it is damaging the territorial, regional and health-care integrity of the county. The Ministry of the Interior has also accused the Ministry of Social Affairs of a lack of involvement. The media have repeatedly reported problems relating to the sustainability of county hospitals and the preservation of these hospitals in the near future. This has raised questions about whether, together with the ambulance reform, there is a sneak attempt to carry out hospital reform. It has now been several months since the submission of the inquiry, the competitions have taken place, the results of which are largely known. We asked six questions in the inquiry, but I believe that the Minister will shed some light on this issue, as there have been many events in the meantime with regard to the ambulance reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U16	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I answer the question of seven members of the Riigikogu. The first question: 'Why did the ambulance reform begin before all parties could give their opinion, as stipulated by the goodwill agreement? ' The ambulance reform began long before the need became apparent and the intention was to enter into a cooperation agreement with goodwill. Thus, the ambulance reform and the goodwill agreement are complementary rather than time-dependent. The goodwill agreement provides for actions to clean up the ambulance network. The Ministry of Social Affairs, the Health Board and the Estonian Ambulance Association agree and submit to all parties, as you rightly mentioned, s. a by 1 May for the approval of the availability and quality standards for emergency medical care, the number of brigades and the regional location, based on the location of active treatment hospitals, as well as requirements for the composition, qualification and equipment of the ambulance crew. The second question: 'For what reason did the organisation of an open competition for ambulance services in Järvamaa, for example, not hold sufficient consultations with the parties involved? " Before the public competition was launched, the principles, objectives and organisation of the competition were presented to all existing service providers. Even earlier, two of the most important target groups were heard, the Estonian Association of Ambulances and the Estonian Association of Hospitals, and their proposals were taken into account in the development of the competition procedure. Most importantly, in Järvamaa's case, there will be three brigades in Järvamaa as a result of the reform. These two brigades, now located in the centre of Paide, will be there in the future, and the brigade will also come to Türi, which, as you well know, in the meantime may have grown from the number of residents of Järvamaa after the previous emergency call. We considered, indeed, that one of the brigades currently located in Paide could be located north of Paide, for example in Mäo, which would improve access to ambulances in northern Järvamaa, but local residents and experts would rather support the fact that two brigades could stay in Paide and the additional brigade would come to Türi. But the terms of the competition allow both solutions. We still have to consult the local community. I don't have a very categorical view of that. The third question: 'How do you plan to respond to the 3066 signatures collected in Järvamaa, which require the suspension of the ambulance reform? " I call upon the signatories to apologize to the people of Järvamaa, for the signatures were collected with a statement that has not proved true and has never been true. The signatures were collected with the following call: 'We will suspend the reorganisation of the emergency medical service launched by the Health Board in Järvamaa, which breaks down the territorial, regional and health service integrity of the county'. Among other things, people were intimidated by the closure of Järvamaa Hospital. This address also claimed that the ambulance would disappear from Järvamaa. If I were able to sign for an ambulance never to disappear from Järvamaa, I'd sign it too, but if somebody says there's a plan somewhere that the ambulance might disappear from Järvamaa, it's already known for fooling around. In that case, I should feel deceived, as the 3066 people in Järvamaa should feel. Those local politicians who abused this false claim in their campaign knew that we actually wanted to create an ambulance brigade in Järvamaa, not to remove an ambulance from Järvamaa, and the work of the hospital, which concerns both the emergency department and all other services, will not change the ambulance reform in any way. In my opinion, this was a very clearly conscious attempt by local politicians to gain cheap popularity by misleading the people. But I believe that these more than 3,000 people in Järvamaa have reason to look very seriously at these initiators of the collection of signatures, in particular Kersti Sarapuu, and to ask why he did so, when he actually knew that these claims were not true. I would like to stress once again that there has never been any plans to change the work of the emergency department of Järvamaa Hospital in the context of the emergency reform of the ambulance; there has never been any plans to remove the ambulance from Järvamaa. On the contrary, one of the objectives of this reform has been, from the outset, that there will be an additional ambulance brigade for the two existing brigades in Järvamaa. Local politicians who collected signatures with false claims could be ashamed and apologized to the signatories. Question 4: "How do you comment on the opinion of the Competition Authority on the organisation of a public competition for ambulance services? " On January 15, Järva and Jõgeva County Government submitted a joint request to the Competition Authority for supervision. They asked for an examination of how the terms of the competition were drawn up, who participated in them and whether participation in them could not give certain undertakings any advantage in the competition and facilitate the concentration of the provision of ambulance services only in the hands of the larger service providers. The Competition Authority replied that the rating table submitted by the Estonian Association of Ambulances and the conditions of the competition submitted by the Health Board differ significantly and it cannot be argued that the Health Board was based solely on the proposals of the Association of Ambulances. As we well know, the Competition Authority decided not to open a monitoring procedure on this issue because it was not found that anything had been done wrong in terms of competition. Question 5: "Have you considered reforming county hospitals together with the ambulance reform? ' No, it's not. Question 6: How would you like to see an ambulance service in Estonia by 2020? ' With a uniform quality and as uniform as possible availability as a service provided to all. The ambulance service is run and coordinated on a uniform basis throughout the country and the ambulance is a good partner for other services throughout the country. The availability has improved, which should in some ways be done through better processing of emergency calls. This means that the nature of the ambulance service has also been better explained to the population and that it is not necessary to meet the challenges of non-emergency workers so often. There will certainly be more brigades in 2020. In subsequent competitions for the provision of ambulance services, it should be taken into account (as was the case in the last competition) that if, in the five, seven or ten years between the competitions, people have moved to certain areas, such as Järvamaa, the largest municipality has become the Türist, it should also be taken into account that the number of brigades should be reviewed and, if necessary, additional brigades should be found in those areas where more people have come. Similarly, this is relevant in the municipalities around Tallinn, where the population was much smaller during the last ambulance competition, before the building boom. Therefore, there are plans to create additional brigades in Tallinn's neighborhood, because these people need an ambulance to respond to their challenges as quickly as in Tallinn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U18	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U19	Good minister! How seriously have you discussed the ambulance reform with the Minister for Regional Affairs? Why do I ask that? This is not just a matter of rapid help for people, but, in a sense, of redistribution of the entire healthcare market. I understand that smaller hospitals are seriously concerned. For example, you put a car in Järvamaa, everyone who needs an ambulance will be brought together in Tallinn, and there will be no one left in Järvamaa to treat. Evidently, these fears are caused by small hospitals seeing that they lack work. How does the Minister of Regional Affairs feel about this? Are regional political fears justified, or is it someone's malicious opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U20	Thank you. These are certainly unfounded fears. Regardless of who is the legal body in one county or another that provides the service, there are those jobs, the ambulance bases where the work is carried out, and the ambulance brigades all in that county, so that these jobs remain and we create more jobs in the regions. Legally, in some cases, employers can change. In the case of one brigade in the river, there is a theoretical possibility that its employer is no longer Jõgeva Hospital, but Tartu Emergency Services. Nevertheless, all jobs, workers, cars and rooms remain on the River. These jobs will continue to be in Jõgeva. If another brigade is set up in the river on a permanent basis through public funding, then you can be more sure that there will be more health jobs there, they will certainly not be reduced. A similar example can be found in Tapa. Today, Tapa Hospital is a small but very good ambulance service provider with a burden far above average. Kill the hospital is a private hospital, it's not a hospital network hospital, and there's a proper ambulance facility at the hospital. On that base, a brigade has built rooms for both the car and the people. These rooms will remain there. Whoever becomes a service provider in the Harju-Viru service area is likely to reach an agreement with Tapa Hospital to rent these rooms. Certainly, in those places where the service provider is more or less aware of, for example, there has been a large service provider, or there has been people-level interaction with potential new service providers, situations can always be solved in a human way, and people who are currently working in the spirit of one collective can go to another. But physically, and also in terms of cooperation, they will definitely stay with these small hospitals. Now for hospitalization. I'm saying it doesn't depend on who's the physical owner of the ambulance crew. It would be very wrong to accuse the EMTs of making business decisions in particular. I'm absolutely sure that when an ambulance crew goes out, it's first and foremost based on the purposes of the treatment, not on business purposes. As you well know, in the face of the most urgent challenges, a person will be hospitalised to the nearest hospital at the appropriate level. With the exception of very complicated cases, multiple traumas, heart attacks and strokes, in simple cases, the hospital will be hospitalized as it is now. If, for example, the nearest hospital is Järvamaa Hospital or Jõgeva Hospital, the person is hospitalised there rather than being taken to a higher-level hospital at any cost. It doesn't depend on it. If, for example, Tapa Hospital Brigade was a part of Lääne-Virumaa, as we know, the nearest hospital is Järvamaa Hospital, then the brigade from Tapa, Lääne-Virumaa, will travel to Järvamaa Hospital with this Järvamaa patient if the patient needs to be hospitalised. This depends primarily on which hospital is closer, not on who owns the ambulance crew. I now come back to the first part of the question, who has been consulted and how. We've talked about it many times with the farmers. I have met quite a few rural elders in private, and I have met them in groups, too, when the county elders have expressed their desire to have an in-depth discussion on this matter. I have spoken to local politicians from different political parties in quite a number of places. In general, the matter is understood, and most of those who understand say in a conversation between themselves that this is a very rational, sensible reform that improves access to services. But that does not mean that the local paper does not use false claims or vile intimidation to improve its election result. I believe that the people of Estonia are so clever that they can see in vain through intimidation and not just vote by those politicians who scare in vain.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U21	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U22	Thank you. Clearly, the ambulance service is becoming more and more of a business. The aim of this reform is, after all, to eat out ambulance brigades operating at local hospitals and then to divide the market between large companies. But there has been a great deal of complaints from local government leaders, county elders and patient representatives that they have not been told anything exactly, that the reform has been carried out over and over. We, too, have only just learned from you that this reform has been carried out. I'd like to know how many brigades disappeared, how many were left, how many, when and where. When's the next competition? In any case, I can tell you about Jõgeva Hospital that the hospital manager Peep Põdder is very worried that things have gone down like this. Things are far from as rosy as you are trying to show here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U23	By saying that the ambulance is a business, you insulted several hundred people. Take a chance to change your mind. These people save lives and do it day after day, night after night. You asked me how many paramedics disappeared. The answer is zero. No ambulance brigade will disappear as a result of this reform, but it will come to the brigade in some places. Some places where there has been a temporary cover in the summer, such as Isaac, we want to create a permanent brigade. We have not yet established in which areas additional brigades can be created next year and which one will be the following year. But it is clear that there will be more ambulance brigades in Estonia next year than this year. The quality and availability of the service will improve from the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U24	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. A total of 18 applications were submitted to the public competition for ambulance services. The only area left unrequested was Põlvamaa. By 2013, there will be contracts for the provision of ambulance services in Põlva County, but a new competition will be required for the future. If the new competition does not deliver the expected results, what is the guarantee that the security of the inhabitants of Põlva County will not be affected?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U26	Thank you. That's the right question. Indeed, as the only region, there was no offer in Põlvamaa, where, for the information of all other counties, elected MPs are already provided by Tartu Ambulance. I do not think he would do it badly there or that all Põlva people would be hospitalized only in Tartu. On the contrary, it is quite clear from ambulance statistics that Tartu ambulance hospitalises people in Põlva County also to Põlva Hospital if necessary. It works very well. But really, in Põlva County, the current plan is to launch a new competition. All service providers who have not already won the competition in two regions can compete. It's hard to say who's going to compete there exactly, but I'm absolutely sure they're coming to Põlvamaa to compete. In any case, we have, in essence, another three-quarters of a year until the beginning of the new contract period. During this time, we will certainly find a solution so that the service will continue at least at the current level in Põlva County.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U27	Please, Mr Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Is the ambulance reform also designed to change the composition of the ambulance teams? I mean, for example, the number of doctors working on the ambulance team is reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U29	Thank you. It is not currently under discussion. We have considered whether it would be possible to reduce the number of medical brigades and get a higher number of siblings for the same money, but at the moment this issue is behind the agenda. However, the general trend has been that most ambulance brigades operating in Estonia are sister brigades. The answer to your question is that we are not now going to change the balance that has developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U30	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U31	Thank you. Dear Minister, You said that in the course of this so-called reform, the number of ambulance brigades in some regions will change and even increase. Does this mean that there will also be pressure on the state budget because the ambulance will be financed from the state budget? Would you tell me how much budget is foreseen for an ambulance, or should the ambulance be made cheaper because of this change? One possibility is, which was also touched by Vladimir Velman, that some of the brigade would be left without a doctor, just a sister's team. Would you mind telling me what further substantive changes are coming in the course of the ambulance reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U32	Thank you. Perhaps I will add to the answer to the previous question. I said the balance doesn't change, but the balance changes by saying that all the new brigades we're creating are sister brigades. As I said, it is estimated that about 85% of all brigades are already nursing brigades. Ambulance nurses are top specialists in their field, and there is no reason to doubt that. It is also true that we have planned an extra brigade across Estonia, Mrs Luigas in the constituency, for example, Valgasse. Whether this is happening at the beginning of next year, it is early to say, it really depends on the possibilities of the state budget. In the state budget, we need to find a cover for two things in the case of an ambulance. We need to find a cover for the payroll. The ambulance is financed from the state budget, not from the health fund's budget, and the ambulance nurses' wages are also part of the wage agreement. Secondly, we would probably like to split the cost of the additional brigades over a few years, so that about half of the additional brigades would already be in place next year and half in the next year or when the state budget allows.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U33	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U34	Thank you. You gave an answer to the last question that depends on the possibilities of the state budget. How much more resources must be planned in the state budget to successfully implement this ambulance reform next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U35	Thank you. Depends on what you think is a success. I will now say by memory that this amount is certainly less than the extra cost of fulfilling the wage agreement. This will depend on how many more brigades will be added next year. If, for example, we make five more brigades, then the order of magnitude is one-and-a-half million euros. The ambulance budget is between EUR 25 million and EUR 30 million. That's the order of magnitude we're talking about. But like I said, the cost of filling a wage contract is higher. If you want an exact bill, I'd be happy to send them to you. I dare talk to you about this remote control with an accuracy of EUR 100,000, but if you want to know more, I'll e-mail you that information.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U36	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague, Marika Tuus-Laul, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U37	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U38	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that the large-scale reform of the ambulance in silence and hastily carried out in the office and the thorough reorganisation of the ambulance have led to a great deal of confusion. The minister says everything is fine and the competition has taken place, but in fact, the hospitals do not know the outcome of the competition that was launched a month and a half ago, nothing. Total silence, nobody knows if they're gonna stay, what's going on and what's coming. Right now, the ambulance is still a natural part of the county hospital. We are concerned that the reform is intended to eat out ambulance brigades operating at local hospitals and divide the market between larger companies. We know that there are currently 24 ambulance companies operating in Estonia. How many of them will be left after the market has been reallocated, we cannot say exactly, but we have learned from both the medical team and the press that there will be seven to ten companies left. The Minister does say that the number of brigades is not decreasing, but even increasing. This is increasing, but the question is that the number of medical brigades is decreasing and this is worsening quality. We fear that the disappearance of an ambulance may actually only be the first step, and eventually the local hospital will disappear. We now see that the terms of the competition were in fact more favourable to the larger bidders. Of course, it diminishes the hope of success for smaller regions and units and undermines the prospects for the future of county hospitals. There were no negotiations with hospital agencies or patient representatives, not to mention local authorities. The local government leaders also consider that this reform will certainly weaken the county centres. For example, the county elders consider that this is unfair competition and a cartel. Let us recall the goodwill agreement reached at the end of January. It provided that the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Health Board and the Estonian Ambulance Association would agree to organise the ambulance network and submit standards of availability and quality of emergency services to all parties for approval. We can see that the contest was actually done quickly, and these things have not been discussed. There's nothing rosy here. Ambulance, I repeat, is getting more and more business. What worries us most is that the medical brigades are increasingly being replaced by the siblings. We fear that they will also disappear and that there will be paramedic brigades. But it is a direct deterioration in the quality of medical care, which results in reduced access to medical care and lower levels. That, I think, is not the objective that we wanted to achieve with this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U39	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U40	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I don't want to offend anyone, I just want to clarify the situation regarding the provision of ambulance services in Ida-Virumaa. Currently two ambulance crews work there, one in Narva, the other in Ida-Virumaa. I would like to hear from you what awaits an ambulance in Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I listened to questions and answers, and I had the impression that a large number of the questioners were present as representatives of the owners of hospitals or ambulance companies, who are clearly concerned, above all, about the welfare of their company. So the general image is that if, for example, one ambulance crew comes to the Türi in Järvamaa, it would rather be bad, even though it has been allowed and sought before several elections. As your minister, you have decided that a person should be guided by the need for help to reach the patient quickly, to be treated in the best way, in a high-quality way, so that the person can get well again. What do you recommend to your company's concerned commies, how to behave?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U42	Thank you for your question. For all those who worry about whether on the ground, in the municipality or in the city, the health jobs that each brigade has quite a lot of, I dare say that they will certainly be preserved. Rather, there will be more jobs in some places, as we have talked about here. As far as specific companies are concerned, I have spoken to a large number of company leaders. They've said it's not like it's some creepy profitable business to provide an ambulance service with one of the brigades. As the scale increases, this service will become considerably more cost-effective, so more can be contributed to quality and training. There are not many drivers whose company provides ambulance services with one brigade and who would be very concerned about the resulting cash flow. They are also fully prepared to continue their work in a way that does not provide ambulance services. In the vast majority, they're hospital managers. They have often been concerned that there has been unnecessary information noise. They have been worried that no hospital departments will be closed in the course of the ambulance reform, or that if, for example, Haapsalu and Tapa have a decent base at the hospital, they will not be forced out of there. We have confirmed that there is no such plan, nor does it make any sense. We have confirmed this repeatedly, and this concern has been considerably reduced. In fact, everyone understands that an ambulance and a hospital do not necessarily have to be legally the same body. For example, the largest ambulance providers, Tallinn Ambulance and Tartu Ambulance, are not legally related to hospitals; they are separate legal entities. However, it is elementary that they cooperate on the ground, in the county centre, in Tapa or in smaller centres, such as Räpina, with local hospitals. That's something everyone understands. We are all people, and there is still a great deal in Estonia of human reason, peasant wisdom, if you wish. To think that if, for example, the Northern Estonian Regional Hospital in Hiiumaa were to be the legal owner of this ambulance brigade, the people who in Hiiumaa Hospital provide this service to some 5 000 people in Hiiumaa would be alienated from the day to day to the people of the hospital are absurd. I'm sure it doesn't have to be this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U43	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Part of my question is due to Mr Kõiv's question, although I am not a partner or owner of any company providing emergency services. How many companies are there who lost their jobs? How many companies were there before the reform, and how many are left after the reform? This is the first part of the question. The second part of the question concerns the activities of rural elders. You said you didn't understand the people who signed and collected the signatures. But in whose interests do you think the elders acted, who should be informed? Both Järva and Jõgeva may belong to the coalition party, but both have also spoken very critically on this matter. Whose interests did they act in?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U45	Thank you. I guess there was more fear in them than knowing what was really going on. The county governor is the highest representative of the state in the county or the highest official of the state. In the event of doubt as to what the State is doing is exactly what it thinks is right, it could have a ministerial or a corresponding office phone number at hand, so that it can be asked before taking the floor in public. But these questions, I believe, have been solved by all the country elders in order. They are involved in competition committees. This is a slightly sensitive issue, because it is important to make sure that the members of the competition committee are not on the local hospital board and that there is no conflict of role if they have any interests other than that they are simply out for the interests of their county. But as far as I know, all the county elders who have been on the competition boards are satisfied with the choices that have not yet been finally made today. They have understood why choices are made in this way. The fears at first in the air have been greatly reduced. Now the service providers. I don't know how many left yet. It's hard to say. There are also companies that did not make the offer at all. If I remember correctly, we had 24 ambulances. How many of them will be left, I think, we dare say that once the Health Board has made its decisions. This week's picture should be clear. The second round is in Põlva, where it becomes clear whether someone who has already made an offer elsewhere or another player will win. The final number may also depend on it. I do not rule out that in some other places there may be a need for a new competition, but I think that by the end of this week the picture will be clear in most areas of Estonia and it will be known who will provide ambulance services from the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U46	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U47	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. You also mentioned in your answers that, in fact, the ambulance also performs functions that should not be his task. For example, the same taxi service, i.e. bringing the patients home from the hospital, often performing the function of a family doctor, often social workers, social services, Band-Aids, or whatever. Ambulances do all they really need to do. In other words, the ambulance alleviates the lack of primary care. During the preparation of the ambulance reform, did you relate to this topic, so that the ambulance would deal with what it was designed to do, perhaps solving urgent problems, but not providing family medical care?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U48	Like my colleague Tuus-lauul, you have now insulted a large number of family doctors and family nurses. No, I do not think that there is a lack of primary care in Estonia, far from it. Primary health care is at a very good level in Estonia. I would not use the word 'often' when talking about this subject, but in some cases ambulances are indeed the most convenient solution for people even in non-emergency cases. I believe that this is primarily a matter of people's awareness and perhaps of experience when to call an ambulance and when not. I think that the Rescue Board and the police will also have to deal with challenges that are not as urgent as the two most urgent stages of emergency response. I'm sure there'll be other authorities. As I said before, there are not enough of them to prevent high-quality ambulance work. We will review these issues with those who are parties to the health goodwill agreement, as has been said here before.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U49	Thank you. In all those areas of Ida-Viru County where there are currently ambulances, this work should continue. It is early to say who will continue as a service provider; these decisions have not yet been taken by the Health Board. In Ida-Virumaa, I read in a hurry to reach 12 brigades and there are no plans to change their location with this reform. However, there will be one region instead of many regions, at least five, so far. This resolves the problems that we talked about earlier, because the needy can go to the nearest ambulance and do not have to follow any virtual borders. Any car in Ida-Virumaa can serve the whole of Ida-Virumaa. It's up to the alarm center to decide what kind of car is going to help.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U50	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, The National Audit Office has said in one of its previous audits that the work provided for in the Act represents less than a quarter of the emergency medical care challenges. How do you think it would be possible to improve the awareness of the Estonian population of when it is practical and meaningful to call an ambulance? The resources are, of course, limited, but there may also be a situation that the ambulance does not reach where it is needed, because the brigade is at the same time in a completely different place where the ambulance may not actually be needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U51	Thank you. That's a very good question. We could discuss this both in the Riigikogu and in the Committee on Social Affairs. I believe that we all have personal experience that an ambulance has sometimes been called even if we could have found a solution in a different way. I will give you an example of calling an ambulance when there is no need to do so. For example, an ambulance is sometimes called when a person needs medications. The Riigikogu has decided to improve the availability of medicines by enabling people to order medicines home via e- Pharmacies. I believe that it may be useful in some places far from the center, where the pharmacy is not located immediately next door or a hundred metres or even a kilometre away. Then you shouldn't call an ambulance to get the medicine, you should get it from an online pharmacy. There are certainly more examples. One important thing that the ambulance reform will improve is that the areas of emergency services will become larger and it is much less likely that a person will have to wait for an ambulance class because the only ambulance crew in the area is currently busy and will have to wait until the previous call is served. If the areas are larger, the nearest free car will come from a county or two county-sized area. This ensures that such'relatively slower challenges' (when using an ambulance bed, although it is not correct to say so, because it is urgent to respond to all challenges) can also be served significantly more quickly, as the nearest free car can be driven to the person in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U52	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Ambulance reform is, of course, only one step from a larger plan of measures to develop and organise the health system as a whole. But I'm interested in the subject that was already mentioned. The claim, plucked from the media, states that the reform has led to a certain shift in format, that one measure seeks to fulfil the tasks of another area, that of the third area of action, and so on. For example, it is claimed that if an ambulance should only be involved in carrying out the tasks assigned to it by law (primary diagnosis of life-threatening illness, injuries and poisoning, getting people to hospital, etc.), rather than doing the work of a family doctor, perhaps there would be no need to add a lot of expensive ambulance brigades. How do you feel about this claim?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U54	Thank you. I believe that the number of challenges that actually only require the work of a family doctor is certainly not non-existent, but it is not enough to significantly reduce the life-saving capacity of an ambulance. This particular change in service areas, which is very grandly called reform, is not regulated by this aspect. However, in parallel, for example, within the framework of the cooperation agreement on goodwill that we discussed earlier, and more generally, we have a plan to analyse the content of the ambulance service and to discuss it with experts. I believe that we can certainly improve the situation on the basis of experience. But the situation is not so tragic that the ambulance only deals with the challenges at family doctor level. There are four categories of challenges, two of which are really such that they need to blow out of the base in a minute and go straight to help people. Some perfectly legitimate parts of the ambulance work are those where it is not a matter of minutes and seconds, they are a little less rapid in nature. But yes, the truth is that an ambulance is an expensive service. We'll have to see if there's another way to solve the problems. We have also discussed quite thoroughly that, for example, the transport of patients from hospital to home could take place in conventional cars, not ambulances. In other countries, this is the case, because an ambulance with all the equipment and the brigade is, of course, more expensive than a regular transport car. This is one of the things that we are seriously working on. All these issues need to be discussed, and that is why we have this cooperation body for a goodwill agreement together.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U55	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U56	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. During the reform, one of Haapsalu's two ambulance brigades will be taken to the Cross. At least that's the plan right now. This is logistically quite logical, as the Cross brigade would probably also serve Raplamaa and part of Harjumaa. But we do know that much of the time of ambulance brigades in today's world takes to transport the sick to a large hospital in the regional center. If the Cross Brigade is off the base and Haapsalu's only brigade in Tallinn, there may be no ambulance brigade in Haapsalu. The Western County Government has proposed (I think you have received it) that two brigades remain in Haapsalu. Then there would be three brigades in northern West: one brigade on the Cross and two in Haapsalu. How do you respond to the mayor?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U57	Thank you. It's not entirely settled. It is also possible that both brigades will remain in Haapsalu. The population of Läänemaa is more concentrated around Haapsalu than the average. On the other hand, the situation will certainly improve just because there is no longer a requirement for a narrow response within a single area, but the brigade can also come from an old neighbouring area, which is now a larger area, be it the nearest free car in Märjamaa or Lihula. Speaking of Haapsalu, I would be careful personally to shift it, even though as a minister I am not going to draw the location of all the brigades on a map myself. Let the experts of the Health Board do this, who look at where there are more challenges, have very detailed information about it, and will certainly consult with local ambulance crews. Personally, I would consider redeploying the Haapsalu brigade very carefully. We must consider that Haapsalu must also have the capacity to meet the ferry, if necessary, when dealing with patients who have not been able to be hospitalized to Hiiumaa Hospital but who are not being brought to the mainland by helicopter. Such cases are not very often, but this capacity must exist and must be monitored. We also need to look at the population of Läänemaa, where the challenges come from and how they are divided. But Lihula is also a place where there is a brigade. So we also have to take into account the distribution in the Western Harju region.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U58	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! As there were false claims in the previous speech, I could not fail to react. First of all, I said in my answers that the number of medical brigades will not decrease, but the number of new brigades will increase. These are indeed sister brigades, as most brigades have long since been in Estonia. It cannot be argued that there is no new competition with hospitals. Both the hospital association and the ambulance association were negotiated, i.e. a lion's share of service providers was represented. If someone claims that he has not been personally spoken to, he is likely to have misled you or have not received information from his umbrella organization. The fact that hospital drivers don't know who's going to be in one county or another is the right thing to do. You don't know it, I don't know it, no one will know it, because the Health Board committee has not yet made its decisions. I told you we'd be smarter by the end of the week. There are regions where there is a very clear idea of who will become such a service provider, because, for example, if only one tender was submitted in the region and the tenderer was already qualified, it is very likely that this tenderer will also be a contracting partner. But until the results of the competition are decided, no one will know about them. I think you've done too much for quite a few hospitals when you said that an ambulance is a natural part of the hospital. Tartu ambulance works in Põlva, not all hospitals in Tallinn have their own emergency department. There is a debate about whether Tartu Ambulance and Tartu University Hospital are one organisation, because they are legally different persons. What do I mean by that? The fact that the ambulance is functionally located outside the hospital that the ambulance base and the hospital are together is reasonable, but the fact that they are legally the same person is not necessary. Rather, it makes sense for us here to rely on the interests of the patient, to ensure that emergency services are available throughout Estonia. Regardless of whether you live in a large center, county, or settlement area, it is important for people to get an ambulance to them quickly. When I answered several questions, I explained why, thanks to this reform of the ambulance, the arrival of the ambulance is accelerating. If I were you, I would seriously consider taking the side of the people and starting to support this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U59	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U60	Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U61	Thank you! The Minister now wishes to participate in the negotiations. Please, Minister of Social Affairs!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U62	The next question is the members of the Riigikogu Kalev Kallo, Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendijev, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laasi, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Esther Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi and Viktor Vassilyev on 11 March. a request for information on ferry traffic problems submitted. Mr. Valeri Korb of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U63	Ladies and gentlemen, On 11 March s. a handed over 12 members of the Central Party Group to the Juhan Parts, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. The issue of questioning is ferry traffic problems. In our inquiry we wrote that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will allocate EUR 15.7 million in 2013 to OÜ Väinamere Sealines for the organisation of public scheduled ferry services between the mainland and Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, as well as on the routes between Saaremaa and Hiiumaa. Last year, EUR 15.1 million was allocated to Väinamera Sea Lines to support the organisation of regular services. As we remember, in 2011, the Väinameriline received EUR 13 million in support. In addition to 15.7 million euros, the Riigikogu Reform Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union decided to direct an additional 600000 euros from the state budget to OÜ Väinamere Lines for upgrading schedules and ticketing. It is to be welcomed that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is paying attention to regional policy and the development of islands, but unfortunately, people do not actually benefit from the constant increase in support. From February this year, new shipping ticket prices started to apply, prices increased by nearly 25%. For example, a family of four people, parents and two children travelling to Hiiumaa by car on the weekend must pay EUR 44.4 for the return trip. Such an amount for ferrying alone seems completely irrational in a situation where the State subsidises the operation of regular services at EUR 16,3 million. By comparison, private companies are able to organise regular services on the same price class on the Tallinn route, with Hiiumaa over 20 kilometres of the sea and Finland 80 kilometres. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has indicated that the increase in support needs is mainly due to the increase in wages and the consumer price index. Based on the grant granted in 2011 and this year, we can conclude that all employees in OÜ should earn as much wages as Sandor Liive in Eesti Energia. However, this is not the case. The question therefore arises as to whether the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is really directing this money for the purpose of organising regular ferry services. In this regard, we have a question for the Minister that I am not going to read out, but to which we want an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U64	Thank you very much, Mr Valeri Korb. I would like to ask the speaker of the honourable Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U65	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! I have been asked four questions. The first question: 'What are the reasons for the increase in the price of shipping tickets in a situation where EUR 15.7 million was allocated for the organisation of a regular service, plus an additional EUR 600000 for the ticket allocation? Do you think an increase in ticket prices of this magnitude can be considered normal? " First of all, I will correct two incorrect statements in your inquiry. You claim that ticket prices increased by 25% this year. In fact, the average price increase was slightly below 15%. The subsidy paid from the state budget for maritime connections to islands is not 16.3 million euros in total, but 15.7 million euros. During the debate on the state budget, the Riigikogu added 600000 euros to the existing 15.1 million euros. The budget increase is EUR 600000 and EUR 600000 was not added to EUR 15.7 million. I would point out that the subsidy paid to ticket prices from the state budget is also linked to the third important component, which, in my opinion, is the main concern of both islands, people and businesses in both Saaremaa and Hiiumaa. In particular, additional journeys are needed. The final result, the subsidy of the state budget, is the balance point that takes into account the planned ticket revenue and schedule. With this change we have achieved that from this year on, more than 900 additional trips will take place between the mainland and Saaremaa, the mainland and Hiiumaa, and in summer also between Saaremaa and Hiiumaa. The reason for this increase is not only an increase in costs, but precisely the desire to tighten up the timetable and improve the quality of the Community, which I think is very important. I'll talk about it a little later. Looking at the over-shipment prices of ferry routes, it has to be said that since 2007, these prices have not been increased, they have been the same. In previous years, contrary to the general trend, all prices have been under pressure for various reasons, additional incentives have been granted on ferry routes, which have actually reduced the prices for freight. We remember that we, together with the Minister of Economic Affairs, but also active members of the Riigikogu Association and colleagues in the government, arrived at the fact that in 2011 we legalized the significant price concession for the residents of Saaremaa and Hiiumaa and significantly reduced the price of all the trucks and buses. The first amendment was made because we are approaching the so-called 'road extension' principle, so that those people who live permanently on the islands should not have to pay disproportionately much for the transport connection. The reduction in the price of trucks and buses was important for improving competitiveness in 2011. In 2012, we eliminated booking fees. In the past, the booking fee of EUR 1,6 per vehicle was applicable. The abolition of the fee allowed passengers to purchase tickets from pre-sales at no extra cost and to access the ship as a matter of priority. Therefore, as compared to 2008, ticket revenues for both passenger and vehicle decreased by an average of 19% by 2012. Following this year's price setting, the revenue per passenger and per vehicle will be lower than the average revenue per passenger and per vehicle for 2008. It is important to know the current public service contract concluded in 2006 between the operator, the Väinamere Lines, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. On this basis, the difference between the transport service charge and the ticket revenue received by the carrier is paid to the carrier in the form of a public transport subsidy. The cost base for ferry traffic is therefore covered by both the state budget and the ticket revenue received. It is important to note that in previous years, the share of ticket revenues in the total costs has been steadily reduced. On the basis of the current public service contract, the amount of the travel charge and the periodic fee payable to the carrier shall be adjusted in accordance with the formula laid down, which shall include changes in the consumer price index, fuel price and also the coefficient of change in the average salary of the sector concerned, i.e. the transport and storage sectors. This is the long-term contract with the operator. For the last five years, ticket prices have remained unchanged, additional incentives have also been granted and the above components have changed, which has increased the cost of ferry traffic. If I compare the 2007 level, I can see that consumer prices had risen by 19% by 2011, the average wage in transport and storage had risen by 8%, while the price of diesel had risen by 46%. The combined effect of these factors has led to a total cost increase of about a quarter of the ferry service. If ticket prices had been kept at 2012 levels, there would have been a deficit in the budget, which would have led us to reduce scheduled journeys. However, as I said earlier, the people of Saaremaa and Hiiumaa need to tighten the timetable instead. What we are denying here, although it has been a short time since the introduction of new, adjusted prices, we can now say that the number of passengers has actually increased, the number of passengers who do not take advantage of this advantage has also increased. In other words, quality is very important for people to actually use the service. Here we come to the second question. You accuse the minister of dying life on the Estonian islands. That is the question that has been put here. I'm quoting for the verbogram, just in case. In 2013, the Centre Party asks the Minister for Economic Affairs a simple, human question: "Why is the Minister's desire to kill life on the Estonian islands? ' That's not what I want. If I look at public services, it must be acknowledged that investment in Väinameri ports over five years in cooperation with the operator, new ships, investment in information technology to make the service more convenient for passengers, has led to the result that the number of passengers is increasing, because people can be sure that apart from a few single days a year (likely a few days alone, you can pick up these words, but so statistics more or less show), the ship can be boarded without waiting in line, the ship is relatively good and the service is good. This situation has always been different in my short life: no matter where you wanted to go, to Saaremaa or Hiiumaa, you always had to take into account the three-hour waiting time in Virtus or Rohuküla, if you were not familiar with the right place or if you did not use the bronchi system, which is one of the original Estonian words. Now there are electronic tickets, the queues are gone. If we look at its impact on tourism, we can even see an increase in the number of passengers, including those who are not permanent residents who do not benefit from the price discount. I've got the numbers too. The number of passengers on the opposite route increased by 13% in March compared to March last year, the number of vehicles increased by 8%, the number of passengers on the Rohuküla route increased by 7% in March and the number of vehicles increased by 3%. The third question: 'In two years, new more fuel-efficient ferries have been introduced, but at the same time the country's subsidy has increased by EUR 3.3 million. Ticket prices have also become more expensive for permanent residents, winter timetables have become smaller or the same. ' Here you are wrong again. On the contrary, for permanent residents, the price has become cheaper. The timetables are now tightened according to a new agreement in winter, summer and autumn. I checked the statistics. There has never been such a tight timetable for sailing in Estonia. I'm not gonna burden you with numbers. You ask: 'Where and for what do these millions of euros of taxpayers' money go? ' Under the current public service contract, the amount of the travel charge and the periodic fee payable to the carrier shall be adjusted in accordance with the formula laid down, which shall include the coefficient of the consumer price index, fuel price and average wage change. The combined effect of these factors has led to a total cost increase of about a quarter of the ferry service. When comparing the expected cost of the transport service in 2013, half of the cost increase is linked to the increase in the number of journeys, the rest comes from the increase in the cost of inputs. The fact that the carrier has brought new and more fuel-efficient vessels on the route does not alter the content of the contract concluded or the mechanism for payment of the aid provided for therein. The carrier has not received any additional money for new ships. Fuel consumption is likely to have decreased, but at the same time this savings have been largely offset by an increase in fuel prices. In total, the renewal of the fleet has required additional investments in the order of EUR 90 million. With the last change in the price list, the people of Saaremaa and Hiiumaa maintained a 50% discount. Prices are cheaper for residents of the islands after the correction than before the permanent resident's benefit came into effect. I'll say the sums, then we'll know what size we're talking about. When the ticket paid EUR 2 24 cents in 2010 on the Wirtze route, it now costs EUR 1 30 cents. As has been said earlier, from year to year, we have tried to improve the quality of the transfer and to make the schedule tighter, especially at a time when there is greater demand for travel. Question 4: "What are the concrete steps taken by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications to improve the situation so that people have the opportunity to have a reasonable crossing price? ' I answered it ahead. I believe that the benefit granted to the permanent residents of Saaremaa and Hiiumaa is significant. If the state of Estonia is ever richer, of course, this price could be lowered so that the inhabitants of the islands would not feel unjustly treated compared to people living on the mainland. Our analysis of the impact on tourism shows that the most beneficial effect for tourism is, above all, a high-quality service, a tight schedule, small queues and all other comfort. In fact, it has a greater impact on tourism than the amount that a person has to spend to get to the island for rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U66	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U67	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It was very interesting to hear from you that, contrary to what a family of four experienced when visiting Hiiumaa, paying a little more than EUR 44 for a transfer, you say that travel expenses on a ferry have been taken down instead. Yeah, sometimes talk and real life splits. But my question relates to another question, which you misquoted, by the way. The question was that expensive tickets have a negative impact on tourism. But you said the price isn't important, it's comfort. When you think about which news most often exceeds the news threshold for Hiiumaa ferry traffic, it turns out that it is news that, due to low water levels, trips are either cancelled or prevented. What is the Ministry of Economic Affairs planning to do with the problem of ferry ships sometimes not being able to travel on this route because of low water levels?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U68	Thank you. Both of you had interesting questions, dear questioner. First of all, of this EUR 44. The example in your inquiry did not concern a person living permanently in Saaremaa or Hiiumaa to travel to Hiiumaa. Yeah, if a family goes there, it's gonna take that kind of money. This has risen by about 10%, or four euros, even slightly more. Suppose this family began to come from Tartu. Let's imagine that you and your father, for example, are going to drive from Tartu. I don't think you're going on a bike, you're going in a car, because the cost of the truck was included in your example. Car fuel is used to drive from Tartu to Grass Village for at least 100 euros. You want to come back, it's gonna be another 100 euros. If you compare this EUR 100 to the unemployment benefit for me, I believe the unemployed you want to represent will be pretty mad at you. It's like you live in a burst! Prices are all relative. But as for the connection to Hiiumaa and the low water level, I dare say it's as usual here, one news changes the whole picture. In late winter or spring, the water level in Heltermaa is always relatively low on the Rohuküla waterway, but in that winter it was at its lowest position in the last ten or even 15 years. But the new ship was never forced to cancel, the connection worked perfectly. In terms of safety, adjustments were made quickly. There was an old ship that drove between Hiiumaa. We could conclude that if the connection was cut due to the low level of water before the new ships were acquired, this year it did not happen. From a safety point of view, it was necessary to cancel the voyages of a ship with a higher draught, or essentially Regula, and, of course, the possibilities for access to goods vehicles had to be taken into account, as their weight changed these conditions. So, despite news from newspapers, I think it was very big news in Hiiumaa, we saw that even with very low water levels, the connection was kept to a fairly reasonable level. Never before has it been kept as such when the water level has been low. We know that from time to time this waterways has been deepened, but no further deepening will solve this exceptionally low water level problem. But now we have experience that a new ship will be able to travel this route at this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U69	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U70	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm just asking for information. The new trains to be purchased will be operated by the State via the Elektrirail. During the next planning period, a ferry is planned to connect to Hiiumaa. Who's gonna operate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U71	Since there were a lot of new circumstances in the case of trains, we found that there was no point in launching a public competition immediately. In order to create a real competition, we need to operate some of these new trains first. Therefore, the State-owned company Elektrirail operates these trains. In the case of trains, too, I do not rule out that in the future, when we have more data, it makes sense to call on market participants to organise a constructive public transport competition. As far as ships are concerned, it is quite obvious that it would probably be reasonable for the State to have its own fleet. But I think we have enough data and this service is not so complex that we cannot, if the country has such ships, offer a public competition on the market. Just as we are doing now in the case of Piirissaare and Ruhnu, the exact same story is with the other ships being built, that the ship is owned by the State or, if the State so decides, by a state-owned company, I do not rule out this option, but it is currently under consideration and analysis. It is offered to private companies to operate. That could be the model.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U72	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U73	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The allocation of an additional EUR 600000 in the election year should, of course, be welcomed by voters. Do voters like that ticket to fall, or that the number of passengers increased? Which ones can they rejoice over? Which party should they be particularly grateful to, either the IRL or the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U74	A polite person always tries to answer the last question, but the voters answer it. I am not the voter of Saaremaa, Hiiumaa or Läänemaa. To be honest, I also want to congratulate the social democrats. After all, there are almost no people from the Centre Party in Saaremaa, Hiiumaa or Läänemaa anymore. Communicating with the islands has, in my opinion, been one thing in common and I have always felt the support of the opposition in fact. By the way, even when we made this decision, where we reached a pretty reasonable balance, everyone realised that in some form the proportion of ticket revenue had to be adjusted and a little bit more needed to be added from the state budget. In my opinion, I also felt the support of the opposition on this occasion, at least for those people who have a stronger link with the islands. But since you no longer have representation in Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, you do not know how life goes in Saaremaa and Hiiumaa. But it's not a party thing, I'm absolutely sure of it. Knowing all these elected representatives from Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, I can tell you that everyone is doing this very unitedly. I have had a very pleasant cooperation on this issue, not much use has been made of any more complicated disputes, has not been against the Minister, but has always come and found solutions. I'm very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U75	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U76	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Sooner or later, the time will come when we have to assess whether these subsidies were developing this area, whether they were on the plus side, or whether there were disadvantages. I realized that the aim was to keep ticket prices as conservative as possible or to lower them. I didn't quite understand how to develop lines, how to measure it at all, where are the pros and where are the cons. Will we also have to decide next year that the country needs to support these routes, and does the draft state budget provide for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U77	Thank you. The next year, or 2014 subsidy, will depend, as I explained, on the change in the components of the formula provided for in the long-term agreement. These components are the consumer price index, the price of fuel and the wage factor of the sector. This is not linear, but this formula takes these components into account at a different rate. Secondly, whether there is a need to increase the subsidy of the state budget depends in fact on the forecast of the revenue from the ticket. We are making this forecast in parallel with the drafting of the state budget. If the ticket revenue is higher, an additional dose may not be required, despite the increase in the cost components agreed in the so-called formula. If the ticket revenue is very high, then the subsidy can also be reduced. This was the answer to the next financial year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U78	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U79	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. When you answered Kadri Samson's question, you announced that if he and his father drove from Tartu to Kärdla, they would pay 100 euros for petrol for one end and 100 euros for the other. In fact, with this money, it would get 140 litres of fuel, and a middle-class car could drive it 2100 to 2200 kilometers, or three to four times as much as it would take to travel this distance. Is your idea that Professor Black is driving a tractor from Tartu to Kärdla? What are you driving? What kind of car has the gas cost you reported here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U80	Thank you. If I remember correctly, the Russian Volga, this GAZ 21, took over 20 liters of fuel for 100 kilometers. I'm pretty sure the Black family wants to go on vacation with a solid transport. But respect is always a matter of subjective judgment. I used this type of Volga car, maybe some American model of the 1970s. If such an honorable and respected family still wants to go to our islands to rest, it must be done with dignity. That's pretty much how I calculated in my theoretical answer. Maybe they don't go there to rest, maybe this is a little too theoretical in our debate at all, and we're just wasting Parliament's time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U81	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I listened here to your belletistics how you sent me from Tartu to Rohuküla and Rohuküla to Tartu and qualified me as an outburst, and did not understand why you did not answer the questioners. I wasn't one of the heirs. However, while trying to bring you back from the Volga era to Estonia's present transport world, I ask you that the number of passengers on the Saaremaa route has increased considerably. Is it on the increased Saaremaa or Hiiumaa route, it doesn't matter, but how does this affect subsidies given the current financing scheme? Does the increase in the number of passengers generate additional revenues for the company or does it not? What's the economic scheme like? What is the financial impact of the increase in passenger numbers? What does it stimulate, what it doesn't?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U83	Thank you for that question. Let's forget your summer trip to Kärdla. Your daughter brought this up. But here's the rule of connected vessels. In other words, if ticket revenue increases, the subsidy from the state budget should decrease, that is the formula. The basis for this is the provision by the operator in his own time of the cost of a single journey. The cost of the journey in terms of cost base is adjusted by the formula agreed in 2006, with three components: the consumer price index, the price of fuel and the wages of workers in the sector. The more passengers, the more revenue actually comes, but this income does not go directly into the carrier's pocket, but the State compensates depending on the actual number of passengers and the estimated cost of one trip.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U84	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U85	Thank you. Respectable Minister, I want to thank you. Last time we talked about Elering, and later your advisor sent me the requested information. Now I know that in 2012, the average salary in Elering was EUR 1749 per month. Thank you. But I'll come back to the question. I love statistics. Don't you have the number of tickets sold all year long for the trips we ask about?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U86	No, it's not. But, Mr. Korb, look, if I promise anything, I will. I have sent you Elering's employees' salary number, and if you remember, I will also have statistics on tickets sent a great deal, so you will see a change in the number of passengers and the revenue of the ticket, by group of passengers as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U87	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U88	I ask the applicants to sign up for an appearance in a free microphone after my hammer strike! Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U89	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I had a strange feeling myself when, in the last three days, so many people in Narva were interested in how the presidential elections were. I thought that if this topic was already being discussed 11 times and there was no need to put a stop to it, then people thought it was a joke, but it turned out to be taken to heart and still asked about it. Among other things, they asked what they were talking about. When I began to say that, in summary, it sounded like people weren't smart enough to choose the right man, people didn't like it. I was talking about the argument that if the President were to give the people a choice, then, after all, the President would have to start doing something concrete. But what does our president do now? The logic is, he doesn't do anything at all. People don't like that either. Why aren't they trying to change that order? In ten of the twenty countries of the European Union (seven countries are kingdoms and the president is not elected) the parliamentary republic and the people still elect a president. Why don't we want to do this? It is understandable to everyone that then it will not be possible to agree, as is usually agreed, that we will put our boy as president, we will support him and he will never attack us, which means he will support us. But our political enemies will be bitten like a true friend, a man's greatest friend dog. I didn't think there was ever a need to talk about the President's direct election after all. But I had four conversations that asked about it. I don't know if it went through the news happily, but people actually have a lot of interest in it. There were 18 of us in the Central Party at the time. Everyone else either resisted or pressed the yellow button modestly. I hope that our group will not abandon this work and we will continue to do so. I think that the Estonian people deserve to elect a president who is honest and straightforward and who not only talks about his problems, his small salary or his estate, but who can also talk about people's problems and problems and give, like order and court, guidelines to both the government and the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to think about this. We don't have a problem waiting. Personally, after talking to people in my home town, I would like to start this bill again and try to do it a little more comprehensively than has been done so far. I hope that we can at least afford this to our voters and to all those who think they are worthy of electing the President of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-15_U90	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. There's no more calls. That means, ladies and gentlemen, that the sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 5.12.
