ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the first working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U2	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good fellows! I have the honour of handing over, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, a draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and related laws. The development of the bill was due to the need for child support and need-based family support to reach the children of the poorest families. The draft has been drawn up with the aim of keeping the child allowance and income support payable under the State Family Benefits Act separate. The draft aims to put an end to a situation where one category of people is essentially deprived of child benefit, and these are the people who need it most, namely applicants for income support. We also want to extend the circle of need-based family benefits to families whose income exceeds the limit of relative poverty, but who, after paying their housing costs, will have an amount below the subsistence threshold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U3	I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U4	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will report an inquiry to Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher on the increase in drug deaths. To illustrate, only one international report was published in November 2011, according to which the number of drug-related deaths in Estonia per million inhabitants in Europe is at the top. It could also be noted that the number of deaths in the nine months of the previous year increased from 83 to 123, i.e. by almost half, compared to the nine months of the previous year. Five members of the Riigikogu therefore ask five questions to the Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U5	Priit Toobali, the speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U6	Good morning, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased with my colleagues from the Centre Party Group to pass on an inquiry to Minister of Culture Rein Lang. The inquiry concerns the financing of public libraries. § 2 of the People's Library Act provides for the purpose of ensuring free and unlimited access for residents to information, knowledge, achievements of human thought and culture, supporting lifelong learning and self-development. The municipal library, which collects, maintains and makes available to the reader the publications, auvs and other information and public databases necessary for it, is considered to be a public library. The Manifesto of the UNESCO National Libraries states that the authorities are responsible for the existence and maintenance of public libraries, both at local and national level. Libraries must be supported by legislation and financed from the budget of both the state and local authorities. In an interview published in Postimees on 9 January, the Minister of Culture announced a plan to lose the state's literary support for printing books in the future. The Minister also stressed that the state must exit the system of support for libraries and focus its attention on e-prints. The Minister has also found that only merchants benefit from reduced VAT rates on books. We are addressing the Minister of Culture with eight questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U7	Dear colleagues, I have adopted one draft and two inquiries on behalf of the Riigikogu Board. According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas and to Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Good fellows, we'll do a presence check. 74 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 27.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U8	We will be discussing the crucial national issue 'The state of play, problems and expectations of teacher education'. Before going to this point, let me briefly present the procedure for this discussion. Pursuant to § 153 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the Riigikogu's Management Board, on the proposal of the Cultural Committee, decided the next procedure for discussing the crucial state of play, problems and expectations of teacher education. First of all, Urmas Klaas, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, will be a presentation lasting up to 20 minutes, followed by questions and answers, which will also last up to 20 minutes. The presentation by Rector Volli Kalm of the University of Tartu, which lasts up to 15 minutes, is followed by questions and answers that last up to 20 minutes. After that, the rector of Tallinn University Tiit Land's presentation, which lasts up to 15 minutes, is followed by questions and answers that last up to 20 minutes. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, will follow, which will last up to 15 minutes, with questions and answers that will last up to 20 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two oral questions to all rapporteurs on this agenda item. After that there will be a round of negotiations. It is a request that representatives of the political groups first and then members of the Riigikogu appear. The debate will run until the end of the Thursday session. The Committee on Culture has proposed to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, if necessary, but no longer than 14 p.m. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. We will come back to extending the agenda when this is necessary. Dear colleagues, let us begin the debate on the item on the agenda. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Cultural Commission Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Rectors! Good guests! The Committee on Culture considers it important to discuss the issue of teacher education as an important national issue in the Riigikogu's plenary. We would like to draw more attention to this issue because we believe that both teacher institution in general and teacher preparation and further training are one of the most important areas in the modernisation of education. The Committee on Culture prepared to bring this issue to plenary in the form of parliamentary hearings at its eight sittings. The first such hearing took place at the beginning of June last year. During this period, there have certainly been changes in the field of teacher education. The Committee on Culture also organised a field trip session, namely Narva College, University of Tartu. I note that the hearing reviews are available on the website of the Committee on Culture. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now present the main conclusions of the hearings of the Committee on Culture, which have been drawn up in the form of proposals from the Committee on Culture to the Government and universities of the Republic. The first issue, which was raised with strong generalisation power, is that teacher training is not popular enough among entrants, it is often not competitive and it is not possible to select the best ones. Worrying about teachers' preparation, we have to ask seriously: What must we do to make young people want to become teachers, to work as teachers, and to constantly improve in this area? All the hearings went through the dominant issue of teacher status in our society. It is important that the teaching profession is valued in society. One measure of value is certainly a motivating salary. The Committee on Culture considers that it is necessary to introduce teacher training to students and gymnasts and to increase its popularity. One might consider the proposal of the Youth School Foundation to raise the threshold for teacher training at the University of Tartu and Tallinn, which has been one of the lowest in other disciplines. According to the school representatives, low-threshold specialties are not attractive to young people with high achievement needs. It is certainly a very good initiative to start teaching at Tallinn University at an undergraduate level. This will help introduce studies and career opportunities in the field of education. The proposal of the Cultural Commission to the Government of the Republic is to express the importance of teacher education as an important field of study for the state in the state's development documents and to take this into account in the state budget financing of higher education. Currently, the Government of the Republic Regulation on operating grants to universities does not list teacher education as a priority area. We have repeatedly recognised that we have many educational policy development documents. However, if we look for a clear answer to the principles that should be followed by those involved in education, we may be in trouble. The Committee on Culture considers it important for the Ministry of Education and Research to develop common fundamentals of education policy in which teacher education takes into account the tasks assigned to teachers at different levels of education and the resulting educational needs. The fundamentals of education policy must definitely be discussed in the Riigikogu's plenary and adopted here. The recent amendments to the University Act provide for the possibility that the state will give priority to one or other specialty and that the scholarships paid by the state will motivate students to choose this specialty. The Committee on Culture proposes that the government, as well as universities, develop a system of professional scholarships for teacher education students in line with scholarships for other specialties recognised as relevant to the state. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the key elements of 21st century teacher education is the coherence of practice and theory. We consider it important to increase the role of traineeships in teacher education and to develop a network of internships schools together with additional funding for schools and traineeship instructors. The practice of learning should be more flexible, the practice should be accompanied by additional consultation and support in order to analyse the acquired practice and associate it with theory. After parliamentary hearings, we can say that the development of apprenticeship arrangements is now at the heart of promoting teacher education, both at the University of Tartu and at the University of Tallinn. The Estonian Cooperation Assembly has also written about international comparative studies that Estonian teachers are social constructivists from pedagogical views, but their teaching practices are old-fashioned and distance with students is relatively large, making it difficult for the teacher to adapt to the specific characteristics of the students. We agree with the proposal of the Estonian Cooperation Assembly Charter a year ago, which says that it is essential that the teacher is better prepared to work in the key to a collaborative learning approach. "The University of Tartu Teacher Education Development Plan 2012" has agreed that the competent teacher of the 21st century is a teacher-researcher who can analyze and value the development of students and themselves. I say that the discussions in the Committee on Culture will be based on a theme that I would call paradigmatic in terms of the development of teacher education: to balance and to link more closely the teaching and general pedagogical training and bachelor's and master's studies aimed at professional academic competence in teacher education curricula. In simple words, this means that a teacher with very good knowledge of the subject should be better able to attract interest in and attract students at school and should be able to deal with special educational needs, including, let's not forget, dealing with talented students. Good participants in the debate! In order to better organise teacher education, it is necessary to agree which universities and the extent to which they are responsible for the provision and development of teacher education. The Committee on Culture wanted to discuss the subject of teacher education with representatives of both the University of Tartu and Tallinn University. I am pleased to note that both universities have given so much importance to the issue of teacher education that, on their behalf, the Commission was presented by the rectors who are going to take part today in plenary to give an overview of teacher education at their university. Our hearings showed that teaching in universities requires more effective coordination between structural units and that faculty barriers need to be overcome. The existence of these problems in universities itself is not denied. Speaking of teacher education, we also need to talk about teachers in teacher training. The Vice-Rectors of Tallinn University noted that teachers of teacher training are overburdened, have little time to notice the individual needs of students in their studies, support students, provide feedback and train students internships. The Rector of the University of Tartu has pointed out that one of the greatest tasks of our alma mater in the field of teacher education is to strengthen the composition of teaching staff in teacher education. Following the hearings of the Committee on Culture, I must say that the problem has been raised very rightly. The question of the competent follow-up of teachers in teacher education is very serious. Speaking of the development of teacher education, I would like to address two other issues. A world-class university education must be based on science. The Committee on Culture considers that there is a need to pay more attention to the scientific development of the foundations of teacher education and to the role of teachers in teaching in it. We also believe that educational innovations need to become more involved in teacher training and that the content of teacher training and the methodological competence of teacher training must meet today's needs and requirements. This training needs to be integrated into all subjects. Ladies and gentlemen, Society is evolving and the school has to accompany developments. Today's teacher must certainly be a lifelong learner, for whom universities provide further training. The Committee on Culture proposes to the government and universities: in order to support the professional development of the teacher, it is necessary to create a comprehensive system of initial education, professional years and continuing training by modernising the system of continuing training for active teachers. Honourable participants in the debate. I am sure that it is our mutual desire that the Estonian school be the best in the world and that the best schools in the world will learn and teach the best teachers. Issues relating to school and education are complex. Inevitably, we will not be able to unravel all the educational issues today. On the proposal of the Committee on Culture, for the above reason, we have chosen a topic of teacher education. On behalf of the Committee on Culture, I would like to thank the partners who participated in our hearings and prioritise the subject of teacher education. These are the Ministry of Education and Research, University of Tartu, Tallinn University, Estonian Teachers' Association, Estonian School Leaders' Association, Estonian Student Association, Foundation Youth School, Archimedes Eduko Office, Estonian Adult Education Training Association Andras, Estonian Parents' Association, Estonian Cooperation Assembly, Foundation Innove and Estonian Association of Special Teachers. The Committee on Culture is about to process the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. This is the first place to implement the conclusions of our hearings and today's debate. I repeat that the Commission has drawn up proposals for the Government of the Republic and universities to promote teacher education. However, these proposals, ladies and gentlemen, are not a ready-made document. After today's debate, the Commission will come back to these proposals. We will generalise the issues raised in today's debate and, if necessary, complement the proposals of the Committee on Culture. I wish us an active debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U10	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U11	Thank you. Honourable performer! It could be said that since the time of awakening, Estonian education has been more or less on the level. The education life of Soviet Estonia was also an example for many others. We have been proud of our teachers, our education and our thinking. The last ten years have been in the hands of the Reform Party and Isamaa (if you look at ministers). You certainly discussed or at least analyzed the reasons why the level of education has deteriorated and where this wise Estonian teacher has gone. What is the reason why it is necessary to discuss the quality of teachers in the Chamber of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U12	Thank you, dear colleague. I think you should apologize to your party partner, Mailis Reps, who has twice been Minister of Education and Science and has run this ministry. That's one. Secondly, as I said at the beginning of the presentation, teacher education plays a very important role in modernising education. This is a very important subject. The question is not whether anything has been done wrong. I don't think big mistakes have been made. The question is that time is changing and there is certainly a need for school and teacher education to accompany it. These issues, such as the very important issue of increasing the share of traineeships in teacher education, still need to be raised in order to improve teacher education. The question is what we can make even better. Of course, according to very many international studies, the Estonian school is very good, Estonian teachers are good, our students are also good in international comparisons, but we in the Committee on Culture see that we need to move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U13	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U14	Thank you. Good performer! It is a pleasure that the Committee on Culture has taken the issue of teacher education today as a matter of day and is also seeking to approach it from the substance side. We know that formal positions have been developed for years (e.g. 'Double pay for a good teacher' and '21. The School of the 19th century'). Today we're talking about a 21st century teacher, I get it. But why has the teaching profession become so unpopular? I remember from the old days that it was a popular specialty. Second, why is the teacher and the student always as distant as each other, from which it came? Where do you see these original reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U15	In the Committee on Culture, the subject was repeatedly raised that university entrants felt that the teaching profession and teacher education were not attractive enough. There is certainly one topic here that I mentioned in my presentation: the status of teachers in society as a whole. Society as a whole should, and so should we politicians, look in the mirror and ask what we can do to make teacher education more attractive and more valuable in society. One topic here is the teacher's salary, that is important. The Ministry of Education and Research and the Government of the Republic are working very hard on this subject. We know that steps have been taken to raise teachers' salaries. But pay is far from the main issue. Let's start by letting young people know what teaching is and what career opportunities they have when they work as teachers. This requires more familiarisation with this speciality and its opportunities for the gymnasts. In other words, the discussions at Tallinn University revealed that it is too late to start training as a teacher during Master's studies. Already in a Bachelor's degree, there is a need for more contact with teacher education disciplines. For this purpose, the necessary subjects have been introduced to the Bachelor's degree at Tallinn University. One very important issue, which was repeatedly discussed in the Committee on Culture, is the greater appreciation of teacher education in universities themselves. Both rectors have declared that this is their priority. But we have to admit that it has not been as high a priority in universities for a certain period of time as it is now said to be. Teacher training teachers are ageing and there is no follow-up. It's a complex subject, a good colleague. How to approach this is certainly what we have highlighted in our proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U16	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U17	Thank you. Good colleague! You said universities need to know how to improve teacher education. That means we're creating a new system. There are currently several centres in Estonia that are involved in teacher education. If, in the future, we only assign universities the task of raising the level of education of a schoolteacher, what will happen to those centres that exist and work quite well?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U18	Thank you. We need to see teacher education as a whole, where initial education and, certainly, continuing training play a role. In my presentation, I pointed out that the continuing training of teachers is unfortunately not systematic. It may even be said that it is clear from this that the state has not clearly defined the task of how we want to see teachers' continuing training. Further training certainly needs to be worked very seriously. It is very uneven, very varied between schools and municipalities. There are problems with that. Nobody's talking about taking away a mission from someone and giving it to anyone else. Far from it. We are saying that teacher education should be systematic. All participants in education will certainly have a role to play if they do so in a quality manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U19	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U20	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I certainly welcome today's debate, I consider it necessary and perhaps even essential. Politicians also attend schools quite often during their county visits and meetings. Surely many of us can confirm that, despite the difficulties and problems, most schools are extremely good. We hope and dream that one day Estonian school will be the best in the world. In Finland, many experts believe that the best school in the world is the school. How much has our Committee on Culture been communicating with colleagues from the Finnish Parliament and discussing what they have done differently, all the more so since there are very many former teachers among the members of the Finnish Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U21	Thank you. Previous members of the Committee on Culture have visited Finland, the Ministry of Education and schools there. I can tell you that our committee is planning to go to the Republic of Finland this year and go to the Ministry of Education, universities and schools. To comment on your question, I would like to say that we must certainly learn from the role models and study them very closely, Finland among others, but it certainly does not exempt us from the task of developing our own Estonian school. The school is so strongly linked to our culture, it is a matter of the survival of our nation and culture. It is certainly important to note that our own school should be world class.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U22	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Thank you for setting this up. This is particularly relevant to me, because I also have a teacher at home, to be exact, a senior teacher. Based on my husband's experience, I can say that teachers are tired of constant reforms and unscathed promises. What are teachers allowed to do? The teachers are allowed double wages, this year a 20% wage increase was promised, then an 11% wage increase was promised. The reality is that much of this increase does not extend to senior teachers and method teachers, not to mention that rural school teachers can maintain the level of pay they had last year. Similarly, teachers are disturbed by constant school reform. It is not clear when this school reform will end. I do not think that, as long as the teaching profession is not actually valued, it is not expected that this profession will become popular with us.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U24	Thank you! That was more of a comment. But you are well aware that the Minister for Education and Science has explained in this House the steps being taken and the steps already taken on the issue of teachers' pay. He has done so in the Committee on Culture. Certainly the Minister and the Government of the Republic are moving in the right direction. As far as ongoing reforms are concerned, our hearings have also shown on a few occasions that quite a number of reforms are indeed being planned in the area of education. Whether they can all be called reforms is a separate issue. But I believe that this was one of the reasons why the Committee on Culture is proposing to the Government of the Republic to clearly formulate the fundamentals of education policy in order to straighten this whole issue out and to think it through more clearly. There are a lot of development documents, a lot of steps are being taken, but whether they all form a logical whole can really raise questions sometimes. A good example was the adoption of the basic principles of security policy in the previous Riigikogu, where the basic principles were formulated in an understandable and clear language. I believe that it will now be easier for all those involved in this area to do their job, because the targets have been thought out and clearly recorded. Education policy should do the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U25	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U26	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I'm based on your assessment that the teaching profession isn't very popular among young people. You know this is a matter of generational change. You also know that a few years ago, for example, there was hardly a competition for Estonian philology. Do you have any data on the dynamics that we had in the last ten years and what we have to expect in the next ten years if the trend that is now is going to last? What, then, do we need to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U27	Thank you. I suggest everyone get acquainted with a document such as 'The Five Challenges of Estonian Education' (of course many have done so). A very good international comparative study, to which I referred earlier, TALIS, points out that the problem in Estonian school is the rise in the average age of teachers, i.e. the ageing of teachers, the low number of young people. Another, not even as a tendency, but as a fact, it is pointed out that our teaching staff in general education is, you could say, extremely feminised, or men are very, very few among teachers. It's a reality. What can we do to change this situation? We have already talked about this today, it is also in our proposals. But perhaps I will mention one subject that we could think about together and which has been raised repeatedly by the teachers. In some cases, it is difficult for teachers to cope with very undisciplined students at school. This problem certainly begins with the fact that when we talk about children in public, we often say that it is up to the school to make people out of them, and we forget that the child is still part of its family first.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U28	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress Urmas Klaas! The subject we are discussing today is, in fact, exactly the same in most countries of the world. Both myself and my children have always been lucky to have teachers. I'm happy. But I'll continue with the Enn Front. Today, the Republic of Korea, Singapore and Finland are being set as examples for the preparation of teachers worldwide. One of their tactics is proactively picking out the brightest heads from high school. However, the Austrian Parliament is currently working hard to attract more men to school. Maybe a brief comment on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U30	How can men be motivated to work as a teacher? That was a good colleague's question then. Such a clear issue was not raised in the discussions of the Committee on Culture. But I'm pretty sure the central factor for attracting men to school is still raising the teacher's salary. That's point 1. Point 2 is certainly what came out during the hearings that society and the state should trust the teacher more. There is a great deal of bureaucracy at school, with all kinds of reports to be carried out. The opportunity to do a job that could be done by a teacher as a well-defined schoolmaster and master is limited.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U31	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U32	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your thorough review. Every time we talk about education, be it general education, higher education or teacher education, one of the three most important priorities is definitely quality. In my opinion, there are three important aspects to ensuring this quality, particularly in teacher education, which you have mentioned. The first is professional competence and development, the second is pedagogical competence, i.e. mastering and raising students, and the third is practice. We know that Finland is one of the best school models, and we have already gone through questions several times here. The majority of Finnish teachers have a master's degree. In order for our teachers to have, say, greater competence, one could strive for the majority of our teachers to have a master's degree. Would it be possible and meaningful for us to develop some sort of motivational mechanism?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U33	Good waitress, thank you for your report and your answers. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair, Rector of the University of Tartu Volli Kalmu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U34	Thank you. I fully agree with this approach. One such motivational mechanism should certainly be that we have scholarships in the teaching profession paid by the state and also by universities (I know that universities think about it and work in this direction) to motivate young people to choose, study and then also go to work as teachers. But I certainly want to emphasise the importance of continuing training once again in this context. Teachers have no objection to developing themselves and getting good refresher training, they usually like it, they feel that it is necessary. This same teacher with master's education must also be able to receive further training at the level of Estonia, of course also internationally, let us not forget this. But it could certainly be very motivating to have a level of, tailor-made, well-thought-out and systematic refresher training.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U35	President-in-Office of the Council. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The University of Tartu appreciates, of course, that the Riigikogu considers teacher training to be an important national issue. I am pleased to give you a brief overview of what is happening at the University of Tartu, what is planned and what we expect of the state on this issue. I had the opportunity to make a similar presentation to the Committee on Culture once before. I will briefly address the current state of teacher training at the University of Tartu, its objectives and the problems that we are trying to solve when developing this area (these are, of course, the problems of the university). I will then give a brief overview of what has happened and what the changes or reforms are expected if someone wants to call them that. Finally, I will talk about the expectations of the University of Tartu for the state and society. The state of play of teacher training at the University of Tartu is, in short, that in a few days' time, we will conclude a performance agreement with the Ministry of Education for the next three years, which will determine that teacher training and education sciences will be jointly held by the University of Tartu and the University of Tallinn, i.e. these two universities will have to be responsible for the training and higher education provided in this field. On the current state of teacher training at the University of Tartu, I will tell you a few numbers. During the last five years, i.e. in 2008-2012, 2100 people completed the teacher training curriculum at the University of Tartu, with an average of 420 teachers per year. There is also a problem with this number of teachers later, especially when it is correlated with the number of vacancies in general education. Students have a choice between several decades of teacher training or educational science curricula. On the one hand, this number seems to be high, but it must be borne in mind that we train teachers from pre-school teachers to educational researchers with a doctorate, perhaps at three levels and in several areas of education. In addition, it is very clear from the university how more and more of these curricula are chosen so that they can become teachers of several subjects, increasing opportunities for employment and burden. This is certainly progressive; we intend to support it. There are a number of countries where only several subjects can be studied as teachers with a view to teaching at least at upper secondary school level. Of course, a teacher of several subjects is not an option in a preschool institution. Now I am talking about retraining teachers and continuing training (more on continuing training today). The University of Tartu has a market share of about 40% of teachers' in-service training. This means that there are just over 600 programmes or trainings per year, where, for example, 12000 educators and educators participated in 2011. A little different from continuing education is the retraining of teachers, which mostly or in at least half of the cases is that a teacher who is already working learns more about teaching another subject. For example, a physics teacher can also become an English teacher. These combinations are usually more professionally related, but there are quite a variety of options. Now, about the objectives of teacher training and the problems that the University of Tartu is hoping to solve with the steps already started or planned. I'll start with what's important inside the university. It is clear that the content and organisation of teacher training at the university, or responsibility for it, must be concentrated in one place. Right now, they're scattered across the faculty. This has led to problems when evaluating curricula in some cases when it is desirable to find who is specifically responsible for one thing or another. The faculties are currently responsible for the preparation of specialist teachers, which will certainly lead to a little too much dispersion. Our aim is to bring together all responsibility and coordination in one place, the Institute of Education. The second step was made possible only because the governance structure of the University of Tartu changed, i.e. we have a relatively small council made up of people outside the university. This year, for the first time, we arrived at the fact that the Council allocated to the Rector the target funds for two purposes. In fact, both also concern teacher training, in the sense that resources have been allocated to improve the quality of teaching and to increase the level of research. It is quite clear that one of the places where part of the target funding goes is teacher training, which will be the same Institute of Education. These instruments will at least allow for significant changes and reforms to be initiated and financed. Our goal is to increase the internship part of the curriculum, the internship coaching fee (I mean this fee that actually goes to tutors in general education schools). We raised it three times, the decision was made this year. These sums are, in fact, still ridiculously small, but at least steps have been taken in the right direction. In return, we would like the feedback from the schools on the practice to be more substantial, not that it was a nice child and it did it in an hour. The curricula are reformed so that we take into account feedback from employers, graduates and students. There is an IT system to ask students for feedback, a little more work needs to be done with employers and graduates. Speaking of changes in teaching methods, one important issue that has already been mentioned, and where probably most of the target funding should be spent, is the strengthening of academics and, in particular, educational researchers, including the bringing of people from abroad. We've tried it, but it didn't work out when we talked about some particular people who were willing to come here, but, figuratively speaking, good neighbors from the north just bought them over. Developing the practical competence of substances is in some respects, it must be acknowledged, actually also in the preservation, because the long-standing frame is in retirement age. There is probably a need for determined, even a few years of development until we can replace pensioners with younger people. The latter objective, which is to be achieved, is, in some respects, the result of an administrative agreement with the Ministry. It provides that we will monitor the necessary volume of teacher training, continuing training and retraining when ordering the Ministry. This is important in order to anticipate courses and areas and, of course, the money that should go to teachers' retraining or further training. This is probably particularly relevant in the context of the ongoing reform of general education schools, which, in our view, clearly increases (but it is only a feeling, the study must show that there is an increasing need for teachers to be retrained. What has happened and what is planned? I referred to the fact that the target amounts have already been allocated for this year, for the current financial year EUR 609000 for raising the level of research and for improving the quality of education of more than EUR 200000. They do not go entirely into teacher training, but a significant part of it is going, because the university considers this to be a priority. There is a common vocational study syllabus (16 credits) that will be available in all teacher training curricula, in any faculty or in any field of study. So far, such a common module has been missing. The degree programmes have increased the percentage of internships from 15 credits to 24 points. Not exactly double, but still. Here we look forward to working with schools; out of 14 to 15 exercises or basic schools, there should be a network by the end of this year. We are currently testing it on the basis of the Tartu Kilinna Gymnasium. Based on the experience gained there, we are contracting the rest of the schools with which pre-negotiations have already taken place. We are planning to organise a study trip to foreign universities for academics from the university. Probably going to Finland, possibly to Slovenia. These are relatively small higher education systems that we want to look at and learn from experience. This certainly does not mean taking over their work organisation and methods from one to the next. Once again, I will make a reference to the administrative agreement to be concluded. We have agreed with the Ministry that, unlike other curricula, we will continue to offer free part-time learning to working teachers. I repeat, this is an exception because, in general, part-time education in higher education institutions is subject to a fee, or at least universities are entitled to a fee. But there's an exception for teachers here. Cooperation with Tallinn University is already taking place. We finance a joint doctoral school in education and education with the support of the Social Fund. We also have a number of joint research projects concerning the organisation of education. Finally, I am talking about the expectations of the university for the state and society. Much has been said about valuing a teaching profession or profession in society. This is something that the university can support in words from every tributary, but we can't do everything outside of the university. There is a very clear correlation in the university: the bigger the issues that have arisen in valuing the teaching profession, the weaker the level of admissions to teacher training. We're hoping for state support here. I'm gonna make a tip on the number of graduates of teacher training announced at the beginning. The latest study, which systematically addressed the teaching staff, dates back to 2008. According to this, about 185 teachers per year will be retired in 2008/2016, who would in principle be able to quit. As I mentioned earlier, we have 420 graduates. Over the last five years, there has been a public training order in teacher training, with universities being all the time hinted that the state order is actually small, universities could accept and educate even more students. My question, which is going to be a little rhetorical right now, is that maybe we're training too many people instead of accepting a little less students, looking at who we need, and then we'd be able to raise the threshold for getting in. If we were to raise the admission threshold in the current circumstances, there would be a lot less students to study. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U36	Thank you very much, Rector. You have questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Rector! This year 131000 children are studying in Estonian schools. Almost one in five of them studies at Russian-speaking schools, and they are insured at least at basic school level in their mother tongue and 40% at upper secondary school level. Therefore, teachers are needed who not only master the subject but who are able to work, given the linguistic peculiarities and the specifics of the Russian school at all. How do you assess the situation with regard to the preparation of teachers for Russian-speaking schools? What are the main problems? What will we have in the future in this regard? What would you advise the country to do in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U38	Thank you for that question. The University of Tartu teaches teachers for multilingual schools mainly in Narva College. It teaches both humanitarian and natural subjects. When comparing the level of admissions and the size of the competition to become a teacher who can teach in a multilingual school, i.e. is able to teach the same thing in Russian, I must admit that the urge to do so is often greater than, for example, in the case of teaching programmes in Estonian at the University of Tartu. This part of teacher training organised by the University of Tartu, which also teaches teachers in Russian schools, appears relatively positive in the general background.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U39	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U40	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U41	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr. Rector! When I formulated my question, I was thinking more of the previous speaker, but I understand that this question can also be put to you. I'll come back to my continuing education. I do not want to reduce the importance of basic education and all the reforms and innovations that you plan jointly or separately to teach future teachers at university. However, I heard a phrase from the previous speaker's report. I was delighted when he said that the teaching profession meant lifelong learning. The possibility of further education, its quality, and also the motivation to continue learning, is, to me, extremely important after graduating. I've dealt with it myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U42	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U43	In your view, in the future, in the light of all reforms, how will the financing, quality and motivation for continuing learning be organised?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U44	Thank you for that question. As I mentioned, the number of people who have received further training is considerable: 12,000 people have received further training at the University of Tartu alone. We certainly see no reason to reduce this training if the desire and the market continue. A bit of a second question is financing. That's what we're gonna agree with the Ministry of Education. We have not seen or heard the Ministry's desire to reduce the financing of this activity. I agree that further training is necessary. This is despite the fact that, according to the 2008 study of the faculty, teachers who do not have a specific education to teach the subject they are teaching at school are very few, perhaps only 5% of the total study volume. Everyone needs further training because time, education and knowledge change so quickly that this need is continuous. We will definitely continue this training.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U45	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U46	Thank you. Reverend Rector! I, too, would have liked to ask a question to my benchmate and schoolmate, but now I'm asking your opinion. Unfortunately, the number of students has fallen drastically compared to decades ago, but the number of teachers has remained at the same level within large limits. In many schools teaching positions are filled. I remember my school days when a couple of new teachers were always presented before the school family on 1 September. While you briefly stopped at it, I wonder what should be done and what mechanisms could be in place to ensure normal blood flow at school, but to maintain competence and continuity. How can the best possible teachers teach in schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U47	Thank you. If I answer as rector of the university on behalf of the university, there's almost nothing the university can do. If I put aside the fact that there is also a plan to abolish the accreditation of teachers (which I think was the name of the action), then it is probably left to simply rely on the wisdom of the head of the school or the council (or what it is called) and the authorities. We must hope that these decisions will be made. Actually, that's one point right of many, where I think the following thing is drawn out. Our education organisation system is that the general education schools are in the hands of the municipalities. It is therefore necessary to accept the wisdom on the basis of which the municipality is currently conducting the school. If this wisdom and education are not to be taken into the hands of the state, for whatever reason, then the only way is to accept the way in which the municipalities hold schools. I don't see any other way around here. The university has the same opportunities here as raising the status of teacher: we can talk about it from every court and everywhere that it is important and important. From our point of view, this is the end of our activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U48	Urmas Glass, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U49	Mr Rector, thank you for your presentation. My question is specifically to the rector of the University of Tartu. The next thought came out of one of our hearings. In understanding the specifics of teaching staff's work, the preparation and writing of higher education textbooks as well as textbooks in general education could be considered as a part of research in order to enhance the value of this work. If faculty again compete for their position, they could be taken into account as 'publishations'. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U50	Thank you. This is an area that we are changing a little bit in the university alongside all other things. I will start by saying that I do not see the need to consider, for example, the textbook of general education as research. Actually, there's no need. The question is more broadly how much this kind of work is recognised as the principal work of a lecturer and is taken into account, for example, in his re-election and in determining his salary. In this context, we are reviewing the conditions for applying to or re-election of all academic agencies. Not only do we increase the share of Estonian-language textbooks and teaching tools, but the importance of teaching also increases alongside research. It has to be recognised that the share of research is probably disproportionate at present. We are not going to reduce it, but we are going to increase our teaching, including writing books, to the same stick as research. We have actually taken the second step, but it will take effect from 1 March, if I am not mistaken. We have increased the grade wage for the lowest academic positions. Unfortunately, a large part of teacher training teachers work in these positions. We are trying to keep this line so that the pay of those who start teaching in teacher training at university does not fall short of the average salary of a general education school teacher, but is slightly higher than that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U51	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Reverend Rector! To what extent do teaching curricula of the University of Tartu deal with different pedagogical ideologies or methodologies, such as Waldorf's pedagogy?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U53	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U54	Thank you. This is a relatively specific issue. I honestly admit I don't know exactly what these volumes are. However, all teacher training curricula referred to above include a common foundation, a pedagogical module, the theoretical foundations and methods of different pedagogical schools. But I don't know exactly what the proportions are. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for your good presentation. As we know, special educational needs are a very important keyword in today's teaching work. Social tensions in society are also invading the school much more than they have so far. How well do you think teacher training is able to adapt to such conditions when more and more attention is needed to children with special educational needs and to address social issues? Do the curricula meet the new conditions? Can you adjust them? Can you train teachers who can handle the new tasks in our schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U56	Thank you. I am sure that the teacher training curricula currently in work meet the conditions that differing regulatory acts impose on us. These are documents governing the teaching profession and teacher training. Teacher training includes courses on school psychology, special education and the treatment of children with special needs. We have a special education department that's curating it. If you look for what could be a problem in this area and what could be better, I think that the problem is that we have few schools where either a special teacher, a logo beet or a specially trained teacher to deal with children with special needs would be able to get a full load. The question is that we need to train more specialists who have the competence of a teacher of some subject and, in addition, the competence to work as a school psychologist, as a logopaedic or as a teacher of children with special needs in order to get a full load together.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U57	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U58	Thank you, Rector, for a very meaningful presentation. Your presentation, at least in my opinion, left the idea that teacher training is relatively popular. At the same time, I have heard that not everyone who receives education through a public training order is going to work as a teacher. This is a pretty serious problem in rural schools, for example. When a young teacher arrives at a rural school by the beginning of the school year, it could be worth the name of the year's act. I know there are some scholarship programs for young teachers to go to work in Ida-Virumaa, for example. I have not heard of such programs as would encourage them to go to work in the country. Does the University of Tartu have anything that could attract a teacher to work in the country for at least a few years? I am not talking about restoring compulsory direction, but rather about some kind of bonus or support programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U59	Thank you. On behalf of the University of Tartu, I can offer it, but I can certainly say that the University of Tartu itself is not going to put out scholarships for any of our graduates to work in a local government. I think that the only way to solve the problem is to 'carrot method', not force-direction, coercion, etc. I think there's more options. For example, work in the country could be linked to the cancellation of a student loan or to the terms of the write-off. In my opinion, employment in rural areas and small schools in particular could be encouraged if the municipality or ministry were able to show young people career opportunities. Certainly a career in a small place, a rural school, is easier and faster than, for example, in a large city school. Could combine different bonuses. In addition, you must take into account, of course, the salary that is free to look at by the municipality and could be set in a way that motivates young people to go to work there. Again, what can the university do? We can monitor the situation, and we've started it. We've seen what happens to graduates. The truth is that a large part of them do not start working as teachers or in the education sector, there are other jobs as well. Yeah, we're just gonna look around and see what happens. Unfortunately, our hands are relatively short in order to change or coordinate what is happening in schools run by local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U60	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Reverend Rector! To what extent do you think the problem is that there are still too few male teachers in schools? If you see any problem here, I ask what your personal opinion is about how this situation can be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U62	Thank you. I think that's a problem. The jokes are that every man who goes to school and specializes in body culture is the principal of the school in two years' time. I think it's okay if that happens. What can be done to improve the situation? I think we're going to go back to one of the closed circles. We get more and better young men into teacher training when the teaching profession is more valued. No matter what that recognition is, it's a salary or some other kind of recognition. As long as more than 80% of teachers are girls and entrants are mostly behind the ranking of the test results (there are exceptions, I do not want to offend them, but the average student is clearly at the back of the ranking for his results), this is the result. But, of course, there should be more men in school, because there are almost half the boys in the school, and they need a man's example.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U63	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U64	Thank you. Mr. Rector! I have a question about internship. I'm a little euthanized, but I've heard of young teachers who have graduated from the university and are going to the first class without any practical experience. Their first internship is their first class. Do you think it would be practical to introduce a requirement in universities that any student studying for a teacher teach at school for a certain time, even as an assistant teacher, for example in a class of children with special educational needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U65	Thank you. I will start at the end of the question: we cannot set the conditions as which he works, either as an assistant teacher or in what grade. However, speaking of your example, my understanding is that this cannot be a student who has completed teacher training, because all those who go to primary school or upper secondary school have compulsory internships that they do at university. The second part of the internship, which means giving an hour, is what they do at school. In most cases, they are training schools agreed with the university, where the student has been assigned a school tutor to whom the university pays a fee for the instruction. I mentioned earlier that we are increasing this fee so that we have the right to ask the supervisor for an adequate assessment. I admit, I can't imagine that this young person would have gone through teacher training. But I know that schools are happy to hire mathematicians, for example, who have not received teacher training. I'm guessing there may have been a young person in your example who went to work as a teacher, but I don't know if he's been through a teacher training curriculum.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U66	Mr Rector, thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. Good luck to the University of Tartu! I would like to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to the Rector of Tallinn University, Tiit Landi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good people's representatives! I thank the Committee on Culture for inviting the Riigikogu to appear before the plenary assembly and to talk about teacher training at Tallinn University! That's a good job. I'd be happy to do that. One of the main objectives of the development plan of Tallinn University is to strengthen the preparation of teachers. To this end, we also apply the university's potential in psychology, informatics, social sciences and health sciences in addition to educational competence in teacher training. Tallinn University is known to have very long traditions in teacher training. This, however, does not mean that our teacher training is traditional, if not archaic, and is not based on modern learning sciences. We know that the collective farm regime broke down over 20 years ago, and has now become history. Our tradition is that we have the greatest competence in the field of teacher training. This is our desire to be at the forefront of both student training and science. We are guided by the modern principles of learning sciences in the development of teacher training. They are interdisciplinary and much wider than we're used to thinking under traditional pedagogy. In order to enable the university to test new, innovative and perhaps slightly different ideas more boldly and quickly, we set up a centre of educational innovation in the new academic unit at the beginning of this year. The objectives set for this centre can be characterised by cooperation with keywords, interdisciplinarity and novelty. Cooperation between entities and people, interdisciplinarity in teaching and research, and novelty in everything, starting with the use of technologies and ending with the study programme models being tested, are important. I'll talk about this educational innovation center a little bit later. But what is happening now in teacher training at Tallinn University? Tallinn University prepares teachers at all levels: pre-school teacher, class teacher, teacher in comprehensive school and upper secondary school, vocational teacher and adult educator. The university also has a thirty-year tradition of training school leaders. We offer school leaders the opportunity to participate in qualification courses. School leaders and educational officials who have more desire to study can do so by choosing a Master's degree programme in the management of education. Teacher education takes place at Tallinn University on three levels. These are first-time studies at bachelor's and master's level, second, the professional year support programme for beginners teachers and third, continuing education throughout the teacher's career. First-school graduates begin their professional year at school. This is a year that is particularly supported by both the university and the school. I am pleased that the professional year system developed by Tallinn University has received a lot of attention and praise from other parts of the world, including our northern neighbours Finns, who are highlighted as one of the so-called success countries in teacher training. International comparative education studies have become popular in recent times. On the basis of these, three success criteria for education systems have been identified. Those countries that can tell success stories here are, for example, Singapore, New Zealand, Finland, Korea (of course, Korea, which is located in the southern peninsula) and Canada. These success criteria are as follows: First of all, teacher. This means finding the right people in the teaching profession and creating the conditions for them to become good teachers-supervisors. Secondly, the creation of a system of support specialists. I'm talking about special pedagogies, psychology, etc. This means the ability to ensure that each student is taught in the best possible way. Third, school management on a professional level. Thus, there are three factors: teacher, support systems and head of school. I'm going to focus a little bit more on these two: the teacher and the headmaster. At the same time, I give an overview of what is happening in these areas at Tallinn University. Speaking of teacher, let's start with teachers. While there was concern in the 1990s that students who had completed teacher training did not go to work as a teacher, there is now concern that there are no students in the course of teacher training. In a situation where teacher training is not popular among young people in Estonia, the key issue is how to find new ways to train teachers to succeed. In the context of higher education reform, young people will also enjoy even more freedom of choice. As a result, access to teacher training may be further reduced. We know very well that there has been no competition so far to study teacher training at free study places. The rise in teachers' pay is, of course, one of the prerequisites for us to have young people entering teacher training, but the teacher's very tense work also frightens teachers away from school. This year, we know, the government raised the minimum wage for teachers, but I believe that this is only the first step in valuing the work of the teacher, and it will also be good practice for the Riigikogu and the government in the coming years that the salary of educators will be increased. Whether to increase 10% per year or a little more or a little less, this is a separate question. Of course, the University of Tallinn is also looking for opportunities to make studying more attractive. We are looking for talented young people who have completed a Bachelor's degree in economics, technology, sociology, media, etc. to enter teacher training. For example, we are creating a new curriculum model with emphasis on educational technology. In this model, students themselves are the creators. In cooperation with students studying informatics and studying at Baltic Film and Media School, they learn to teach through the creation of new media content. The teaching profession is one of those where life experience and social maturity are certainly beneficial. Studies also show that teachers up to thirty years of age often perceive students as malicious and spiteful. Nor do they perceive the real motives of student behavior. Leaving young teachers also has a great deal to do with emotional stress, including the difficulty of keeping a peace of work in the classroom and contacting older colleagues and parents. A trend has started to develop in Estonia, where a person works in one area of life for 10 to 15 years, but then there is something else to do in life, another field is chosen and a new profession is studied. Why can't it be teaching? To this end, we will develop preparatory programmes where the learning is closely linked to traineeships and allows more studies to be designed according to individual needs. This means that only what is lacking is a mandatory menu not necessary. The focus is on learning here through internships. The following is a brief presentation of the changes in the teacher preparation process. The fact that the role of teacher has changed does not doubt any of us. We want the teacher to shape the students' general competences and social skills and prepare them for life. This means that the content and process of teacher preparation have changed and will continue to change. An important change in teacher preparation is that we are focusing on the process and the needs of the learner here, as well as in general education, rather than trying to teach comprehensively everything we think will be needed in the future teacher's work. In fact, it is much more important to change the already established understanding of teacher work. A future teacher, unlike many people working in other disciplines, has been observing their teachers and their work for at least 12 years and has thus gained an idea of teaching. It's hard to change those perceptions. In addition, teachers' education constantly needs to include new topics in the curriculum in relation to scientific discoveries, changes in society, the digital world and technological developments. In view of the above, the quality of the process is essential in the preparation of teachers. The main keywords of teacher training are experience and testing, analysis and association, research and development. Thus, a future teacher will want to study and test a number of methods to maintain student motivation and develop his teaching skills. Now I will come back briefly to the centre of educational innovation at Tallinn University, which we created this year. It's just a place to generate and test new ideas. We also use the resources of the European Social Fund to equip the Centre with the most modern technological tools, to involve foreign specialists, to bring together a young successor who dares to think without borders and also to test crazy ideas in a good way (let us call them that). The Centre for Education Innovation creates the conditions for cooperation between academic units, which is an ancient problem at universities providing teacher training. Now to practice, which is one of the key issues of teacher training. If what has been said in theory cannot be put into practice or experienced, then it is clear that this knowledge will not be put into practice in the future. Several general education schools have realised that their contribution is essential, and they adjust their learning activities according to student practice. However, a close link between practice and theory requires an even wider sharing of responsibility. Trainee teachers become teachers of teacher training, because they must be the instructors of students when they acquire primary skills. This does not necessarily mean the university training schools that we had in the 1970s, but independent schools with the best management practice, where the conditions for co-operation between students and lecturers have also been created. For example, a model has been applied in several countries that university faculty members go to schools where students with learning difficulties learn more. There, new teaching techniques and teaching materials are being tested. Close cooperation between schools and universities requires a wider sharing of responsibility, as well as additional resources. In partner schools, teachers should experience the best management practice and conditions should also be created for cooperation between students and lecturers. In developing internship systems, Tallinn University has good cooperation with the University of Tartu, in addition to the various forms of cooperation mentioned by my colleague Rector Volli Kalm. A little more about the school manager or the environment where the beginner teacher takes up his job. The school environment is known to depend on guidance. From the University's perspective, the changes planned under the PGS are welcome: greater responsibility for schools, autonomy in setting up and recognising teachers' motivational systems, and support for their development. However, if we give higher responsibilities to school leaders, we must also guarantee their competence. Qualification requirements for school leaders must be stricter. We believe that short-term in-service training is not enough. For example, why not consider acquiring managerial competence at master's level? Students who have received higher education in another field before, as well as those who have had management experience, could apply for Master's studies. The head of the school is also responsible for identifying the needs of an active teacher for refresher and retraining. From this year on, universities provide teachers free of charge with further training, either through national or European resources. It is important here that schools are well-informed partners of universities in the design of further training. In conclusion, the University of Tallinn sees teacher education as consistent. It's definitely not gonna end with graduating. Finally, what do we expect from the Riigikogu and the Government? Firstly, changes to the PGS, the VET Act and other regulations must not allow for the devaluation of teacher's qualifications. The teacher must be a specialist with a pedagogical higher education who understands the development of the learner and the nature of the learning, who is competent in research and is ready to take an exploratory, learning methods and tools into account in his/her work. Teachers who have completed short-term pedagogical refresher training could teach some elective subjects in upper secondary schools, for example. Secondly, tightening up qualifications requirements for school leaders, longer-term training for school leaders, why not accreditation. Thirdly, making teacher training one of the priorities for funding universities. For example, additional funding could be provided for teacher training as a nationally important area, to allow scholarships for teacher training students, as well as to enable the externalisation of active teachers, which is very important. Fourthly, regulating the status of partner schools and providing additional funding, as the involvement of students in the learning process requires additional resources and is an additional financial cost for schools. There are also stricter requirements for practitioners who supervise traineeships, which give rise to the expectation of higher pay. School management should also be at a high level in partner schools, as the student is influenced by the entire culture of the organisation. Fifthly, support for teacher position and improvement in image, including continued wage increases. What do we do, Tallinn University? We will first create flexible opportunities for teacher education, including the ability to teach one of the secondary subjects of each teacher training graduates. Secondly, we create more attractive curricula to bring new target groups into teacher training. Thirdly, we are developing an educational innovation centre where we are testing new teaching methods, teaching materials and technologies. Fourthly, we prioritise and do research and research. Just as we expect an active teacher to study and test new methods, research and doctoral studies are also essential for the university. Finally, the University of Tallinn recognises its responsibility and we are ready to bear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U68	Mr Rector, thank you very much for your presentation. You have questions. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U69	Thank you. Reverend Rector! You talked about student mobility from university to schools and briefly discussed how to involve practitioners in this learning process or how there could be a secondary movement in order for practitioners to go to university to teach. Can you tell us a little more about how this system works to take advantage of the best practitioners in schools in teaching at the university? Is there any shortcomings in this system and how is its funding organised?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U70	Thank you for your question. This is a very important issue. We now come to practice, which, as we have heard many times in this Chamber, is a key issue. I mentioned that in the 1990s or even earlier, in the 1970s there were so-called training schools. There are still such schools, for example Tallinn University has more than 20 contractual partner schools. I was referring to the fact that when a graduate teacher goes to school, the universities expect some teachers to support and supervise the graduate. This system is working now. But we expect the state to regulate the status of partner schools. Additional funding is also important here, because it is an additional financial cost for schools; they need additional resources to do so. For example, imagine that we are sending a teacher to a rural school, where all teachers are under great pressure. It requires separate regulation and additional resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U71	Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Rector! My good colleague, Tõnis Lukas, gave me the work of pedagogical candidate Peep Leppik in 1999, where the viability of schools in South-East Estonia is also discussed. Let me quote from one paragraph here: 'The preparation of teachers should also start to take a much greater account of the regional aspect. The peculiarities of teaching at a large school in the centre of Tallinn and, for example, at Pikkilla or Pikkukann are completely different. Sadly, today's narrowly specialized teachers are not ready for such work on the outskirts. ' My question is this: can we say today, 13 years later, that the regional aspect is taken into account in the preparation of teachers? Secondly, you spoke about the importance of school leaders. We lost short term contracts for school leaders not long ago. Was that a legitimate step?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U73	Thank you for your question. First of all, do we consider the regional aspect? I'm afraid we're not counting on that. Should We Consider? Probably would. I myself come from Southeast Estonia and started my education in Võru. That was during the last regime. But yes, I believe that the regional aspect should certainly be taken into account. How we do this is a very specific question. I'm not going to philosophize about this right now. I trust specialists. The second question was the accreditation of school leaders. Was it reasonable to lose fixed-term employment contracts? It's my personal opinion, but I think it was. As I was referring to, we should, in the future, impose stricter requirements on school leaders, for example, to assess them. Although I do not know whether, according to labour law, a fixed-term contract or an open-term contract is reasonable. A fixed-term contract of employment does not seem to comply with European Union law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U74	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U75	Thank you very much. Mr. Rector! You briefly mentioned informatics as one of the components of teacher training in your presentation. Could you break that point a little bit longer? How important do you attach to the IT competence of teachers? Do you consider it important that teachers are prepared to participate in online learning? If you consider this important, does your university have any cooperation on this subject with, for example, the College of Information Technology?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U76	Thank you. Of course, I personally (I think most of us believe that) consider it very important that teachers have information technology skills. We live in a world where most of the information comes from the Internet. A variety of information technology tools are essential for obtaining information. The use of educational technology, namely information technology and, more generally, the use of IT tools in teacher training, is very important. I mentioned that Tallinn University cooperates with the Baltic Film and Media School. As far as the IT college is concerned, we do have cooperation, but it could be a little better. Personally, I believe that informatics, for example in a slightly softer form, or, more generally, computer sciences, should be taught in all universities, not only for future teachers, but also for all other students.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U77	Please, my colleague Urmas Klaas, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U78	Thank you very much. Mr Rector, thank you very much for your very thorough presentation. I am very pleased to congratulate the University of Tallinn for the initiatives you take in teacher education. There has been mention of the Centre for Education Innovation and the curriculum model for science teachers RIMUM. These are very good and important innovations. If I commend you, no one can accuse me of anything. If I were to praise the University of Tartu, I would say that I prefer my former university. But to the University of Tallinn, I can give sincere praise. You have clearly highlighted the responsibility of the head of the school. Indeed, the responsibility of the head of school for the teacher's desire to work in school and for the school environment to be motivating is increasing. But here's my question. Do you shed some light on the way in and the division of responsibilities between Tartu and Tallinn University in the field of teacher education in the light of the new higher education reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U79	Please, Mr Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U80	First of all, thank you for your praise. It is always good to hear praise, but of course, praise also means responsibility. Now in the areas of responsibility. As Mr Kalm mentioned, according to current plans, in just over a week's time, the representatives of universities and the Minister for Education and Science will sign new performance and management contracts. Administrative contracts shall set out the areas of shared responsibility. For example, in teacher training and educational sciences, Tallinn University and University of Tartu share this responsibility. How it's going to be in the future exactly, it's next year's theme. The administrative agreement states that universities (not only concern education or teacher training, but also other areas shared by universities) will negotiate and agree on a division of labour by 1 March 2014. We have already started these discussions with the University of Tartu, but these discussions should take place on several levels. The rectors talking to each other is natural and nice, but first you could negotiate with active teachers and practitioners. I am pleased to acknowledge that the academics of Tallinn University and University of Tartu have close cooperation, which is reflected in several projects. Volli Kalm called the doctoral school, and I also named other projects. We will negotiate at different levels and, by 1 March next year at the latest, we will have to submit a specific division of labour to the Ministry. But I don't want to get ahead of myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U81	Thank you. Mr Rector, thank you very much for your thorough presentation. I am pleased to note that I myself have graduated from the Tallinn Pedagogical Institute called Eduard Vilde. The decision to go to this school and become a teacher was made at the end of comprehensive school. I think it was a very good decision. However, I was rather sad to see the school of pedagogy becoming just Tallinn University at one point. I think it's the pedagogical side of this college that has the honor, pride and the core. Have you thought about it, or what are your university plans to bring more visibility to the side that I think might be a flagship? Although the word 'pedagogy' has disappeared from the university's name, how can it be made more visible to society to understand that it is important and very important?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U82	Thank you. That is an important question. Personally, I wouldn't just give more priority to the name, whether or not the word 'pedagogical' is included in the name. If we look at the content, much more is taught at Tallinn University, there is not only teacher training, and there are other scientific research works, not only educational research. I think that's the trend today. We know that the University of Helsinki also provides teacher training. My previous alma mater, the University of Stockholm, was merged in 2008 with the so-called "lärarchogskolan" or teacher high school in Stockholm to bring together teachers' training specialists and didacticians and link them to teaching subjects. I don't see a problem in the name, but I agree that the University of Tallinn has really developed other areas since the change of name, and the education sciences and teacher training have been a little backwards. But I said at the beginning of my presentation that one of the strategic objectives of the development plan of Tallinn University is to develop teacher training. We acknowledge our responsibility at Tallinn University and are ready to bear it. I hope we all feel that in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U83	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U84	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rector, thank you very much for your good report. You talked a lot about interrelationships between traineeships and pedagogical education, cooperation between universities and schools, bringing traineeships to university and moving them to schools. In the light of this, what role do you see in the network of regional colleges in universities?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U85	Thank you for your question. I see the important role of university regional colleges. We come back to the regional aspect. It is important to bring each other physically closer to the university where teacher training is provided and schools. I consider regional colleges very important here. Narva College, University of Tartu, is also very important for Russian-language learning. Tallinn University is known to have two regional colleges, one in Haapsalu and the other in Rakvere. Since these are separate units located away from Tallinn, the issue is more of education economics. Lecturers working at the main building of Tallinn University also teach in regional colleges. It's very important. I think college is very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U86	Please, Mr Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U87	Thank you. Reverend Rector! I am going to extend the question to my colleague, Kaia Iva, from a different angle. In the last century and during the previous regime, the current Tallinn University was pedagogical. At the time, he was the most important university in this niche. It is now said that small Estonia cannot accommodate too many higher education schools with similar orientation. Teacher training niche is clearly very strong at Tallinn University. Perhaps it would not be necessary to duplicate this training at the University of Tartu, as the University of Tartu is rather a classic university with a scientific direction. But at one time cultural education was taught at Tallinn University. I know they're teaching conduction there right now. There is also duplication with the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre. What could be the cooperation with the music academy in this area so that this activity is more concentrated?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U88	Thank you. I will return to shared responsibilities, i.e. soon to be signed in administrative agreements. According to the draft administrative agreement, the Tallinn University and the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre agree on a division of work by 1 March 2014, how we will see music teaching in the future (dirtification, piano game, as well as music pedagogy). There will certainly be negotiations in these areas over the next year. I do not want to rush ahead in time, but it is certainly reasonable that we negotiate and agree with both the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre and the Estonian Academy of Arts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U89	Please, colleague Priit onion, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U90	Thank you. Reverend Rector! I think there was a slight contradiction. I listened to your report. You spoke about expectations and changes in teacher training and stressed the importance of general skills. When we went to your university with the Commission, I had the impression that it was still considered more important to prepare for the subject at the university. Can you tell me which one I was wrong about? Did I get the wrong impression in college or listening to you right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U91	Thank you for your question. I'm going to answer that, of course, both are important. We cannot say that we need only pedagogical skills, not knowledge of matter, or that we consider only material knowledge to be important and that we do not give priority to pedagogical skills. I mean, they're both important. How do we achieve that, so that the future teacher can master both? First of all, through internship. We may be strong in theory, but if we haven't tried to apply this theory in practice, it's just a theory.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U92	Please, Mr Kallas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U93	Thank you. Reverend Rector! Maybe it's a layman's question, but I'm still asking. Since we are a Member State of the European Union, I wonder whether the practice of teachers takes place only in Estonia. Is it possible that teachers from other European Union countries come to practice in Estonian schools? If so, what is the problem with language skills?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U94	Thank you for your question. I have to admit, I don't know what figure you could call here. I mentioned various studies. We've compared ourselves to other countries. For example, South Korea, New Zealand, Singapore, Finland and Japan can tell success stories. I'm sure we'll learn from them. When we talk about practice, we'll see how it's arranged for them. We certainly must, too, Mr Kalm, bring us the teaching staff from other countries of the European Union. For example, two Finnish professors, supported by the DoRa programme of the European Union, teach at the Tallinn University Institute of Educational Sciences. This exchange of best practices is very important. As far as student exchanges are concerned, it is about the language of instruction, the language in which we teach. As we predominantly prepare teachers in Estonian who teach in our own language, there is a language barrier.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U95	Thank you very much, Mr Rector, for your presentation and your answer to questions. I ask for a presentation by Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U96	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, political and academic! I welcome the attention that has been given to this important national issue by both those present here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu and thousands of people who are watching the transmission of this sitting over the Internet. I believe that the structuring of the teaching profession and institution is indeed of strategic importance for the survival of the whole country and the people. That concludes the general introduction and goes to a question that I think was touched by the edge, but which may not have actually been reached at the heart of it. Despite this grand introduction, I think it would be worth trying to find the real bottlenecks in teacher training and to learn how to overcome them. Wise people say that 80% of the success is guaranteed by 20% of the decisions taken. Our wisdom could be that of the tens, if not hundreds, of good proposals that have been made earlier on teacher training, but also in this Chamber, to sift out the steps that make a significant difference. Before starting to change anything, I think it's always reasonable to be sure where we are. I call on all concerned to be more proud of the situation that prevails in Estonian education and not to harm Estonian school, teachers or students with the occasional wailing. Looking a little further and more impartially, things are pretty good in Estonian education. The reproaches that sounded in this Chamber from a number of colleagues were evidently politically motivated, not so fully thought-out as to pedagogy and education. But this, too, is part of our everyday political culture. However, I hope that we can appreciate what has been done and what is still being done. Speaking about teacher training, it was recalled that the survey was carried out in 2008 and on the basis of which the "Estonian Teacher Education Strategy 2009-2013" was adopted. Most of the proposals that have been heard in this Chamber so far are written in this document and, to a significant extent, they are being realised or have already been realised, as well or poorly as the parties have been able to do so. In this sense, we are not in a fundamentally different situation today than in 2008, when the teacher education strategy was adopted. A good colleague, Urmas Klaas, pointed out the need to agree at the level of the Riigikogu on the foundations of education policy as a framework document for shaping education policy. This idea may be thought, but one should think quickly and on a rather broad political and social basis, because we are now in a situation where a rather broad consensus has agreed on the need to draw up a lifelong learning strategy. The government has taken this decision, the Ministry of Education has started working on the basis of this decision, and by the autumn of the current year this strategy should be completed. So if we decide quickly that we need the basics of politics instead of strategy, and replace the strategy with another document of a much more executive nature, then it is possible to do so, perhaps even in the course of the procedure of the basic school and upper secondary school law pending before the Riigikogu. I would certainly like to dwell on another point referred to by Mr Kalm, which is worth thinking about. The University of Tartu, as I heard, graduated from 420 people who had received teacher training or teacher education. In universities, 5,000 young people study as teachers. We have 15,000 teachers. So we only have three times less teachers than teachers. We have one teacher position for every ten students. Every year, 1,200 teachers retire. I find it difficult to understand the claim that we do not have a teaching profession popular, at least in terms of learning. We prepare more teachers than we de facto need. It is not out of the question that we would, of course, need more teachers. But why the demand for young people or for new teachers is not as high as it could be in reality is a very substantive issue. We do not have vacant teacher positions or, if so, very few. I point to a problem that I think we have unfortunately overlooked. In good faith, we have defined the teacher's preparation so narrowly that our small schools are unable to provide a full burden for many teachers. Indeed, participative burdens do not attract people to continue in office. It is therefore understandable why part-time teachers often fill part-time teaching positions by retired teachers who compensate for part-time income by pensioning and in this way earn enough to keep this profession going. Despite criticism and dissatisfaction, we do not see a mass departure from the teaching profession. That fact should also be considered. Certainly, we should not underestimate or overlook the fact that those who have chosen the teaching profession highly value the profession. Consequently, we do not have the worst of stories about teachers' preparation. Even though they're disappointed, what kind of job wouldn't be? There are fewer disappointments in the teaching profession than in most of the disciplines we teach in our universities. So what is the real need for teachers and why fewer young people go to schools than we would like is a more complex issue than just the status and unpopular nature of teaching. After all, with further training, we are actually much better off than in most disciplines. May ladies and gentlemen be forgiven in this Chamber, but who of you can delight us in announcing that he attended two formal training courses last year? But Estonian teachers go to two further training courses every year, statistically. Yes, our continuing training system is not satisfactory, and the content is sometimes dissatisfied. Nevertheless, it can be said that, in all professional areas, the continuing training system for teachers is one of the most comprehensive, systematic, with the widest coverage. Although, frankly, I think it's far from ideal, even unacceptably far away. Now about the quality of teacher education. By studying the status of a teacher in international comparison through the TALIS study already recalled, it is concluded that the Estonian teacher knows how it could and should. Whether he can do that, we can't say for sure about that. However, we do know that in practice he does not apply the skills he has acquired, whether in initial preparation or in further training. What is the reason? Motivation or school culture? If so, the problem is not about teachers' preparation, but about other education and school arrangements. One of the most central issues, which unfortunately lack good, reliable and evidence-based analysis, is whether the balance between teachers' professional and professional qualifications is reasonable. It seems that more emphasis has been placed on professional qualifications than on professional qualifications. At least that's a vocal position. Whether or not research will confirm this, I find it difficult to say anything about it. I believe that it is absolutely necessary to clarify this. This would help our teacher education in the wider sense. To sum up all of this, at least I have come to the understanding that before you start looking for a magic key for teacher training, it would still be worth paying attention to modernising the education organisation and school organisation and understanding and reshaping the motivation mechanisms within it. We have tried to do this on the initiative of the Ministry of Education, and we have written a lot of this into the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act: increasing the role of head of school, giving the head of school responsibility for designing a comprehensive school and changing the teaching profession so that a comprehensive system of professional responsibility is developed from a narrowly-stricken system of motivation based on giving an hour. There's something else I want to formulate before I'm finished. I believe that we could trust universities in the basic preparation of teachers even when we are critical of some of the outputs of their activities. Despite the criticism, there is no greater competence than the University of Tallinn and the University of Tartu. We could also trust more schools by increasing their responsibility for a comprehensive school culture. Many decisions concerning the practical activities of teachers are primarily taken by the head of the school. Trust in the school manager with demandingness will certainly improve the day-to-day pedagogical reality of our schools. Now one of the central questions on which the Riigikogu will probably have to make its own decision and which have been dealt with here in the light of slightly contradictory views. A good colleague, Tiit Land, argued that we should be of the opinion that the teaching profession requires pedagogical higher education. However, we know that the most successful project in recent school renewal and teacher renewal has been 'Youth in School!' ', which basically follows a different approach. I myself believe that we can learn from this experience and move more towards trusting the professional system, away from overemphasising the formal educational component. In a modern society, a teacher does not possess a monopoly on knowledge. The personal qualities of the teacher are important: the ability to enthusiasm, to provide motivation for learning a number of subjects, and the ability to observe him as a person. It has certainly expanded the number of people who could succeed as teachers in our schools. So the debate on whether to open up the teaching profession to specialists without a pedagogical higher education could continue within the framework of the PGS. In the last two seconds, I would like to thank everyone who has contributed to this day, especially those who have actively participated in the debate in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U97	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Laine Randjärv, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U98	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I will continue your final thought. In addition to primary and upper secondary school education, the Ministry of Education and Research also includes vocational and recreational education. In general, all of this has been discussed today in a traditional, as if in the context of a normal schoolteacher. I will give you an example from the music academy because I know this area best. There's a lot of interpretations being trained. At the same time, the Estonian Association of Music Schools has complained several times that there is a problem with the pedagogical direction in the context of the education of interest. Whose responsibility is this? Who's supposed to coordinate this? If it is only the competence of the music academy and they have not managed to do so for decades, how can we address it so that vocational or recreational education can still gain its pedagogical direction and strength?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U99	They are prepared in several higher education institutions. As for music teachers who teach in music schools, coaches who work in sports schools, or art teachers who work in art schools, this mechanism itself exists, these people are being prepared. The question is whether there are enough. The second question is whether the quality we can guarantee is acceptable. I understand that there is a well-founded criticism of both quantity and quality. As far as quantity is concerned, in many cases a simplified conclusion is drawn that if we are missing something, then the education system does not provide enough. I belong to people who believe that if there is really a shortage of something, or there is nowhere to be found, the problem is not that people are not being prepared, but that the problem is that there is no motivation. We should start with motivation. It is a bottleneck to ensure the motivation of educators in hobby schools. Most local authorities either do not value this work enough or do not have objective opportunities to create conditions that motivate people to choose this profession. Certainly, if there is motivation and if people want to work there, if we have been able to create such a situation, then the next question is whether we have enough people prepared. At the moment, I am not prepared to answer one question because I just don't know where the shoe squeezes the most. However, the problems in recreational education are certainly sometimes more serious than in general education. I agree with this overall assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U100	Please, Mr Iva, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U101	Thank you. Today, in some cases, there is a brief stop to the problem of pay. Remuneration is undoubtedly an important reason for choosing and remaining in the profession. Minister, I would like to thank you, in particular, for being very determined and consistent in your efforts to ensure that teachers' salaries rise, so that it is not a one-off injection, but an education system designed to ensure that wage increases are sustainable. It was more surprising for me this morning to hear a radio interview saying that the state has promised to contribute 11% more salary this year, but in fact it is rather a situation where the teacher gets a few dozen cents. Would you be willing to explain the additional contribution that the state added to the pay of teachers this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U102	I will limit my response to municipal schools because they have usually been the focus of attention. I must remind everyone that municipal school staff, including teachers, are paid by the local government through their own educational institution or by their own school. The salaries of teachers are 11.6% higher. If we take into account the fact that the Ministry of Education is determined to stand up for it, also using the supervision step provided by law, so that all money reaches the teachers, then the wage increase should be higher than 11.6%. Teachers should get 14.2% more money. The way in which all this is distributed among teachers, the Ministry of Education and Research cannot and does not wish to interfere with it. These decisions must be made on the ground. We know that in all institutions with a rationally organised system of motivation, wage increases are never exactly the same for everyone. Wage increases are greater for those whose contributions are greater, and that should be the case. The option given to the headmaster with additional resources is a sensible direction, not only on the basis of formal lawnhouses, but also on the basis of the performance of the work. It motivates you to teach better and achieve better results. In such cases, if the wage increase of teachers is different, it must be taken as a reasonable working arrangement. On average, as has already been said, salaries will increase at least 11.6%. I'm going to make a little bit of a concession here. Local authorities have a duty to organise school life in such a way as to meet the real need. If the children are twice as young as ten years ago, it is also necessary to make school decisions. It is not conceivable that, regardless of the existence of children or the decrease in the number of children, the wage resources allocated to them at national level will continue to grow. This has always been the case before, and this year it will be. If the funding of some local governments did not increase by 11.6% but increased by less or even decreased, it should be taken into account that the number of students there has decreased to a much greater extent. It would also be useful to review the steps taken by the school organisation to raise teachers' salaries, regardless of the fact that public funding did not increase as much as the average in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U103	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, In the state's education system, we have a solid division of roles and responsibilities. One particular focus of education policy is the state. My question concerns the sharpness of teacher education or teacher training: the respected University of Tartu and Tallinn University, as well as our primary schools and local authorities with their associations. Do you see any problems in improving their cooperation? If these problems are very serious, they must be resolved. How long do we have to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U105	I'll start philosophically. If you believe that you can name a deadline after which all educational problems have been solved and then there will be eternal peace or communism, it will certainly not happen. However, the cooperation between the state and local authorities in the field of general education is not such as to be satisfied. Of course, there are always objective reasons. But one thing: us and you. I mean 'we' by country and 'you' by local governments. If we share our rights and obligations more clearly, we will write exactly what the one is responsible for and for which the other one is responsible, then the cause of the dispute is less. The unfortunate confrontation with support staff is a good example. The law says one thing, oral promises have been made by others, lower-level legislation has said three. It has become a completely unnecessary quarrel, in a situation where we should actually do the same thing. It is in the common interest of all of us to create clarity. The clearer the rules and the more principled we are in keeping with them, the less trouble there is. The second step, which is reasonable and to which I also hope to be supported in the process of processing the PGS in the Riigikogu, is a clearer determination of the responsibility of upper secondary schools. We know that many upper secondary schools, however, are de facto beyond the control of several local authorities, both organisationally and financially. Unfortunately, the quality of teaching suffers from it and makes unnecessary trouble. I believe that we will also gradually find solutions in upper secondary or general secondary education that have already been found in vocational education. As far as universities and teachers are concerned, I have already stressed that we do not have such confrontations as the Ministry v. schools, ministry vs. Teachers, Ministry vs. universities or universities vs. teachers. There are problems that we are trying to solve together. The focus is on the three things I have pointed out: the balance between special and professional qualifications, the share of traineeships and the openness of the teaching profession to other level-training programmes, not just teacher training programmes. But I believe an agreement is possible here. If this agreement is reached, it would also make sense to put it more clearly in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U106	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U107	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about the teacher training order. You and the Rector of the University of Tartu referred to the fact that we train teachers more than we need, according to Volli Kalm, more than twice as much as we need each year. Why has the Ministry of Education ordered so many teachers from universities and spent money on training people we do not need? Is there a reason why many graduates go to a better paid job than school after receiving their diploma? Or is there any other reason for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U108	I tried to stop it a little bit. Indeed, an unacceptably small number of those who have been trained as teachers go to school to work. But why don't they go there? To answer this in a simple way that the pay is low would be superficial. Free full-time jobs are not as many as there are graduates. If there are no vacancies, you should not blame the graduates if they choose another specialty. As has already been said, teacher training should be one way of increasing flexibility in school organisation, also in terms of curricula, so that teachers are able to teach three subjects in primary school or at least two subjects in upper secondary school, because it is only in this way that they can be given a full load. This is a problem, but there is no simple, tagging solution. This is a more complex problem concerning the organisation and motivation of schools, not just the preparation of teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U109	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U110	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. You talked a lot about continuing teacher training and the need for it. I fully agree with you that this is necessary. I am pleased that the country has found 2% of the additional money that had been withdrawn from continuing training. This, in my opinion, is a positive step. But I also have a question. What is the motivation for teachers to improve and train themselves if this does not result in an increase in wages? I am thinking, for example, of senior teachers and Methodologists. This year's wage calculation methodology does not favour more trained teachers. What should be their motivation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U111	Oh, yeah! Why am I learning more? If we don't get three euros right now, will we stop? Or is that what Riigikogu members, doctors, firemen or ditches do? We are basically taking the wrong approach if we believe that the driving force for lifelong learning is a formal wage increase linked to the courses that have been completed. Motivation must be much more substantial. Only then can we hope that the teacher will be interested in substantive qualifications, which will increase his productivity and improve his performance, which can also be reasonably assessed by the head of school involved in lifelong learning. The important thing is not just that the birds can pass the paper on to the books and get paid more. I don't think teachers should be underestimated. I am convinced that most teachers, as well as representatives of all other disciplines, develop their professional abilities on the basis of a desire for self-realization. I am convinced that in our schools, self-realisation and improved performance are well-assessed, including when determining wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U112	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U113	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I ask for your comment and perhaps for an opinion on whether there is a link between education reform and administrative reform. If so, could there be a source of resources? I mean both financial and human resources. But if they don't have a connection, I'm asking for an opinion on it!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U114	There is no direct link in itself. Moreover, the restructuring that we are doing within the framework of modernising the education system is certainly not intended to change administrative arrangements. But we know that they are, of course, indirectly linked, albeit by no means unambiguously. There is another issue that I can draw attention to in relation to the question that has been put. I also heard in today's debate indications that our teachers are tired of reforms and changes. I think we should think about that a little bit. Can we really say that the changed environment, both political and economic, let alone technological progress, does not trigger or require restructuring in school life, or that we have somehow gone too far with the restructuring of education life? I'm a little out of my mind. Let's take a closer look at the mechanisms in education, the motivational schemes, including the remuneration of teachers. The arrangements for the remuneration of teachers, I stress this for the third time from this speaker, were introduced in 1985. These principles of how we currently pay teachers were introduced in 1985 by a joint regulation of the Central Committee of the NLKP, the Council of Ministers of the Soviet Union and the Central Council of Union Trade Unions. Changing it may be difficult or uncomfortable in some cases, but it would be a little over-emphasised and nostalgic to modernise the educational system.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U115	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for questions is over. I would like to thank the Minister for Education for answering and presenting questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U116	Thank you. As far as I know, it was also planned to extend the session. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U117	Yes, it is, but we're starting negotiations now. If there is a large number of speakers, I shall put the proposal for an extension of the sitting to the vote. But right now we have half an hour. First of all, my colleague, Aadu Black, will come as a representative of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are discussing the improvement and development of teacher training. We have discussed this on several occasions in our group, though directly, with regard to different issues. The overall impression is that the situation is encouraging. Of course, the word 'hoping' is quite interesting in Estonian. As teachers, we know that someone who was once young and talented can retire without giving anything but hope. However, my moderately positive meditation has a pretty strong foundation. Looking around in life, in schools, and also in universities, we see that we have come out of recession. A few years ago, the situation was undeniably much hopeless than it is now. I'm not going to repeat the deep analysis that went through the previous reports. The format and schedule of my presentation do not allow this. However, I would like to stress that I have observed the changes that have taken place at the University of Tartu, for example. There, a few years ago, teacher training was viewed as quite derogatory. It was found that only those who didn't fit in are going to be a schoolteacher. I want to emphasise the major change that we have also seen in the Committee on Culture. Young, energetic people come and show that they are able to view teacher training with enthusiasm and say that it is important. There are leaders who speak optimistic language. That's a good assumption. I am thinking here, for example, of the performance of Margus Pedaste, of which we in the Commission expressed a very good opinion and found that his ideas should be supported. There has also been an important shift in Tallinn University, where a few years ago it was shy to be a trainer of training for trainers, and only the other side was extremely impressed, forgetting that teacher training is of paramount importance to society. In everything, as Urmas Glass said in his presentation, there is also a personal dimension. I myself have observed the positive developments of Tallinn University. What a shock it was to tell me when my youngest daughter, the daughter of a professor at the University of Tartu, announced that she was going to study as a teacher at Tallinn University. I took three deep breaths, did not exhale, but said that as a wise person, he had to make his own choices. I hope these are good choices. On the positive side, I would also like to emphasise that I very much enjoyed the debate in the Committee on Culture. I have the right to say this as a representative of the opposition. The opposition must always say how badly it is, and yet I want to say that in the debate on this issue, I saw a sympathetic consensus and an attempt to make things better. A member of the opposition will be forgiven if he also compliments Urmas Klaas, who, in his earlier work, has struggled, per aspera ad astra, tried to improve the teaching level of history teachers. Another positive example. But before I go to it, I'm asking...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U119	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U120	Thank you. I've been critical of our publishers, and I've said such evil words that they're not after anything but money. I must withdraw these words because a few days ago I asked to be demonstrated to me the electronic teaching packages of the publishing house Avita. I had a very good impression of them, especially from the geography package. Also because this package was not 'too good'. Urmas and I know that the seminar of Forselius' schoolmasters was very good because he wasn't 'too good', didn't make children Germans, then they would have been lost to their people. This package, which we have seen, also values the teacher, gives him, if a little paraphrase, wings, but still leaves him in charge of the learning process. So much for hope. Of course, we need to analyse all the critical and constructive comments that have been made. I very much like that, although we are discussing teacher training, it is clear to us that the educational carriage has at least four wheels. They say they can handle one in the circus. We can't handle one. We don't drive far on teacher training alone. There's a problem. From the Commission's work experience, I remember that one major concern has been what we call a blanket torn. If the representatives of teachers of one subject still come to say that their substance is being abused, now the number of hours of the other substance must be cut and weighed towards them, then it is nothing. This is what we have seen in Parliament, where there is sometimes the impression that raising the salary of an airline manager should be more important than raising the pay of teachers. Of course, salary is an important motivator; this has been emphasised by all the speakers here. When I happened to go to Sindi High School last week, I heard that teachers' salaries could be increased by 38 euro cents. I quickly calculated that fortunately it was not 11%. 'Cause what's the total salary? Between three and four euros. Of course, there is still a need to come back to this issue when a little more time is given. In today's session, I think it is quite important. The purpose of the meeting is to show that teacher education and our education policy is a strategic, nationally important issue. Thanks to the disproportionate role of teacher training and education in our society, Estonians have been able to deceive statistics and create a country with a population of a little more than one million people. I mean, society is a complicated thing. Tearing the deck won't take you any further. I very much hope that teacher training and all the educational and scientific issues will be a matter of national importance for us, this Chamber, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and the day after that. I agree with those who say that if you just put the fool on the payroll, he won't get any smarter than that. That's right. But educational people have shown that we are still developing things in every direction, and the most important decisions come to us in the Riigikogu. We need to look at what it costs and what it costs to spend people's money. Thank you, and thank you for your strength.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U121	Thank you very much, Mr Black. Mr Paul-Eerik, Commissioner for Reform, as representative of the Group of the Rummo Reform Party, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U122	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! Rectors and guests! First of all, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I am pleased to thank all the rapporteurs for their informative and very inspiring presentations. Among the rather frequent discussions on important national issues that have taken place in this Chamber, I think today has been one of the most informative. It is clear that the survival and development of the people and the state depend first on the education that people receive during their best years of study. There are a large number of variables that need to be taken into account and taken into account. For some time, a large part of Estonia's education organisation energy has been focused on understanding the school network in order to achieve the best possible access to quality general and vocational education. We know that this has not been an easy process. All municipalities that have been able to achieve optimal cooperation, both between themselves and with the country, deserve recognition, making decisions that are perhaps painful in many cases, but open up new opportunities for the best use of available resources for the future of young people. But while this complex process is still under way, it is high time, alongside school logistics, to commit more fully and more innovatively to the content of things, what and how schools are teaching, the atmosphere of schools and the contact between schools, homes and the environment surrounding schools in general. This is largely a question of pedagogical staff, or teachers. It is no exaggeration to say that the preparation of teachers is a strategic factor in ensuring the durability, livelihood and success of the people and the state. We commend universities for their perception of this responsibility and for seriously rethinking the position of teacher training in other areas of study. Despite all the paradoxical things the Minister has pointed out here, we must say that the teaching profession is not currently among the most popular. These paradoxes, which the Minister mentioned in this matter and which are objective, obviously require a closer analysis. However, in any case, a dangerously high percentage of teachers currently in employment is either approaching retirement age or there are already pensioners who work part-time. Young people with good ideas and readiness are not coming up enough. Even the declining demand for teachers as a result of the decline in the number of pupils, as well as unemployment among educated young people, has not led to a significant competition in remote schools for vacant teachers, which still exists. In many cases, schools are forced to accept quite a random placeholder. There is nothing too exciting to talk about competition in entering universities as teachers and the professional confidence of those who have obtained this profession. So, what's this about? There's been a lot of talk about pay. The pay situation in this sector is improving, but we cannot forget that repeated interviews among seniors on the motives for their further studies and career choices have shown that, in addition to hopeful good income, they are often even more important than income, as well as the expected future creative working environment and atmosphere. Learning as a teacher and working as a teacher are not usually seen in such a positive light. There is also a clear link between the fact that students in our schools, by gaining high places in tests that control international knowledge, also stand out in the absence of school joy. There is real reason, therefore, to increase the preparation of teachers to the priorities of both universities and the state. It is worth noting that in recent years, citizens' initiatives have been, and are, an important part of 'Young People's School! 'and 'Back to school!' '. They can serve as an example in modernising systematic teacher education, especially in view of the recognition and development of the personal characteristics necessary for the teaching profession, the achievement of teacher authority and the flexibility in responding to unforeseen events always occurring during the actual school day. Can I have an extension?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U123	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U124	I hope that today's debate in this Chamber and its preparatory work in the Committee on Culture and the Ministry will give the necessary additional impetus to these new steps to make the teaching profession attractive to young people. A few more quick thoughts, in addition to or in addition to what has been said here. Curriculum development is a continuous process. Step by step, we are approaching that the design of the curriculum will foster the development of discovery in the students and, in addition to knowledge, the ability to create and understand the links between knowledge, a vibrant and comprehensive world view will develop. It also requires the formulation of corresponding attitudes and competences in teachers, overcoming the substance-centredness in the narrowing sense of its horizon. Good materialization should increasingly mean a good understanding of the interrelationship and good generalization of human knowledge. The participation of teachers in curriculum development requires the development of abilities in students who have embarked on a teaching profession. Secondly, the question of teaching tools, especially textbooks. There would be nothing more natural than seeing more practically experienced teachers among the authors of textbooks and methodological tools. This requires that the relevant competences are already established in basic teacher training and developed in further training. In addition to traditional classroom and school education, the share of online learning is increasing across the developed world. It has enormous potential for the best possible development of students' intellectual assumptions. It would be useful for us to be able to train IT specialists with a view to directing the idea and interest of information technology to its use in practical pedagogy and, on the other hand, to strengthen the component of the knowledge of information technology in teacher training. We consider it natural and elementary that schools have well-prepared teachers of natural sciences, mathematics, history, physics, mother tongue, foreign language, etc. But let us consider the potential of becoming an active member of a young person with more marginal subjects such as social learning, entrepreneurial learning, why not also the religious history that caused angry disputes. In fact, their place in the development of practical competences for the attitudes and values of a young person is much greater than their share in the schedule. This, in turn, requires teachers with special abilities who are interested in and capable of linking the lives of students to social life, both in the broadest and nearest regions, in terms of the life of the community around the school. I refer here to international IB curricula, where one of the three mandatory components is compulsory practical participation in the life of the community around the school. The Reform Party Group wants strength and goodwill for those who promote teacher education so that we can be sure of our people and our country in the future. We will certainly analyse the recommendations of the rectors and the wishes and proposals for political decision-making that could promote the constructive steps that universities have taken to promote teacher training. We take this issue very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U125	Thank you very much, Mr Rummo. Ladies and gentlemen, please register! Please, as representative of the Group of Mrs Liisa-Ly Pakosta Isamaa and Mrs Res Publica.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U126	Thank you. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U127	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U128	Honourable rectors and guests! Ladies and gentlemen, Many thanks also to the rapporteurs for their very meaningful and honest presentations on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. I would like to add one aspect, one subject that has been covered in teacher training discussions both in the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and in the Committee on Culture. This is a question of values that have not risen in vain in almost all debates. For students to become active Estonian citizens and hard-working and responsible people, it is not only that teachers need to have good knowledge of the subject, but they need to be more and more involved in the growth of the student into a person. So far, you've gotten used to thinking it was a family assignment. I'm sure it is. Without trying in any way to reduce family responsibility, let us see what has happened to this family, because something has happened that has a significant impact on school, teacher preparation and teacher work in school. During the development of modern education, the family was always next to the child. Grandparents, relatives, neighbors, older siblings and community formed a dense circle of adults around the school age. Each of them devoted considerable time to raising children's values, nature training, developing manual skills, and working education. School fathers, as well as women teachers, who have been in Estonia for about a hundred years, had to do really subject education in school. However, as we can see very clearly, Oskar Luts 'Spring' also had to engage in value education, individually approaching the student, whether by giving one student the musical instrument necessary for the education of interest (an interest education is no less important than formal education) or by offering a simplified curriculum to another student. I'm sure you'll all remember the sentence that if you don't get the whole thing done, do the half, but do it yourself. Teacher education is somehow stuck in the original model where the teacher is automatically an honorable subject. In the meantime, the period of occupation shattered this concept. The decisions taken during the War of Independence to make Estonia new and strong through education have not become as strong a national priority as education and, therefore, teachers had before World War II. I would stress once again that the role of the family has not decreased, but the role and importance of the school has increased significantly in 2013. Families and family living conditions have changed. Often, the neighbor's name is unknown, grandparents live away, 40% of children do not even live with both biological parents, and the parents' job is often away from home. Children's exposure to different adults in the pre-school period is drastically reduced. The adult individual attention that a child receives in terms of value education and growth has also been drastically reduced. The teacher at school clearly sees that, in fact, he now needs to do more and more of this work. Apparently, the question that has already gone through the hearts of those who sit in the hall several times today is: What if a child sitting on a school bench is not a healthy, quiet, learning girl? Maybe he's not sitting on the bench. He's running around in class. It even distracts teachers too often from real school life, as we have heard from several presentations today. The social cost of all this is very high. According to the Human Development Report, the number of young people who are not graduating from education or primary school or who are limited to it is 10 to 13% of all young people in Estonia, depending on the year. It's mostly boys. In Finland, it has been calculated that one young person lost to society in this way costs EUR 2 million. One young man! Thus, the teacher's job has a real price, both in the plus and in the minus side of the state budget. There is nothing more reasonable than helping a teacher to do his job, preparing him properly and training him, providing quality and systematic training, decent pay, 35-hour working hours with clear tasks, support staff helping the teacher to do his job in school, a working environment that values the teacher's creativity and trusts the teacher's own choices and managerial competence, and teacher training that values the teacher's creativity as a value teacher, trusting the teacher's own choices. Of course, you need a child to know how to solve a quadratic equation, where x is equal to plus / plus b2 is equal to 4 ac: 2a. But it is just as important that the child knows something about the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. In addition to good knowledge of the subject, this requires excellent knowledge of the person, good leadership skills, and great stress tolerance. In Estonia, it has to be said more clearly that the role of teacher in raising a child into a person and developing a child's world of values has grown enormously independently of the teachers themselves, due to changes in society. This should be taken into account both in teacher training and in everyday school work and in school work management. The core of teacher training at our universities must be much more management training, value teacher training and creative training with strong stress tolerance. Finally. In 2008, there was a record increase in teachers' minimum wage rates, rising by 22% for all teachers. During the Mart Laar government, in 2001 and 2002, the salaries of all teachers in our budgets rose by 15% for two years in a row. In 2013, the budget added an increase of €7.5 million in teachers' salaries and €8.2 million through the restructuring of the education budget. I would like to inform Mr Samson that, since 2008, we have a young teacher's starting grant, which means public compensation (EUR 12782) for teachers entering rural areas. In 2012, 65 new young brilliant - eyed teachers received it. If we sum up the issue of pay and value education, we will see that teachers are indeed the lowest social group in terms of their qualifications requirements, the size of their social task and the responsibility for work. I would remind you once again that one lost child will cost us two million euros. After all, we use the same euros as Finland. As teachers and teachers have done their work well and there is more hope, we can find confirmation on today's Estonian Express page 22, where Jakob Westholm Gymnasium 6a children say (other than one such small gymnasium) that the first three of these values are family, friends and grades and knowledge. The question of whether these values are also appreciated in our society is that children do not respond very strongly. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I would like the strength of teachers, teachers and teachers in this, let us be honest, in terms of values, in a somewhat ambivalent situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U129	Thank you very much, Mr Liisa-Ly Pakosta. I would like to ask my colleague, Helmen Küti, to speak as a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U130	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable speakers, Rectors of the University of Tartu and Tallinn University, Minister of Education and Science! Ladies and gentlemen, All those who watch this broadcast over the Internet! On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I would also like to thank the Committee on Culture for bringing this important issue to the Chamber. Once again, thank you to the waitresses today! Now to the subject. If you ask what the role of a teacher is today, which is his rights and obligations, you might say that this role is relatively vague. How does the modern - day relationship triangle work: teacher, student, parent? Do all the vertices of the triangle know what is expected of other parties? I use the thought expressed in Teacher's page and quote Hannes Tamjärv, who has spoken about enthusiastic learning and interest-based school. It could be a dream of striving for perfection, where some teach and others learn eagerly and with great interest. Today, however, there is a situation where some, or quite a few, consider the teacher to be a waitress. It doesn't matter if the teacher thinks so or not, but the teacher is still the first to burn out, then likely the student. A servant is like a child, so let him keep asking if he asks for anything else. The insecurity of the teacher as a role-holder is growing and one form of school violence is growing out of which there is not much public talk, but which is not nonexistent: the psychological persecution of the student by the teacher. The hallmark of the present day is the increase in personality centers. A young person is autonomous with his social network; he is inherently innovative and curious. The question arises as to whether it will be allowed to publish it or whether it will be suppressed. In other words, is the youth open, or is resentment agile? Of course, the basic attitudes are shaped by the home, but social practice is provided by the school. Does a teacher basically fit into a young person's social network? Not as a servicer. He can only fit in as a creative personality if he can play along with young people's innovativeness and curiosity and, more importantly, if he can push the student into a better channel if necessary. A teacher as a spiritual leader, not as a pieceworker and counter attendant, a teacher as a mentor who can support, who can be an inspirationist, who is followed and, why not, whose example includes career choices. More seriously, you may ask how you can ensure that your teacher's knowledge and pedagogical skills are balanced. No superpedagog makes students love literature or physics unless they know the subject themselves. Achieving a balance is a key issue for teacher training in universities. This topic is directly linked to the internship opportunities of teacher training students. For some reason, this is not the best solution. Lecturers often lack the experience of schoolwork, and the role and status of training schools are unthinkable. Studies show that teacher training students receive excellent theoretical training in pedagogy. But can they use it at school? If not, what is the reason? fossilized forms of study, routine, or hierarchy of power? Or maybe the same maid that won't let a young teacher open up? There is certainly a need to talk about continuing teacher training, its possibility and the need for lifelong learning, because a rapidly changing society also needs to change teachers. Now for the teacher's follow-up. Interest is decreasing, and it is no wonder that the prestige, burden, salary and school network issues of the teaching profession need to be resolved. A lot of work, little pay, uncertainty, a lot of paperwork alongside the main job. To quote Margit Timakov, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Teachers' Association, the teacher's week is 56 hours based on the survey. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U131	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U132	Eight hours of this is supposed to work on the weekend. We are taking as a basis the OECD survey of all countries for 2010, because we want to compare ourselves with others. This study focused on teachers' pay during their careers (15 years of teaching). Unfortunately, Estonia is the penultimate one in this study, with only Indonesia ahead. This comparison has already taken into account different purchasing power in different countries. It is quite sad and scandalous that, now that there are performance agreements with universities, neither the University of Tartu nor the University of Tallinn's teacher education has been included in the areas where the state is planning additional funding. Additional funding will be provided for natural sciences, precision sciences and engineering, manufacturing and construction. As regards teacher training, the Minister of Education and Science replied to the Committee on Culture last year: 'In particular, it is important to agree on who is responsible from universities and the possibility for universities to realise this responsibility, inter alia by converting available resources within universities. At the same time, it is necessary to allocate substantial resources to the development of the field of teacher training in the next period of EU funding to cover the possible added value of a specific division of labour. ' Finally. I quoted Hannes Tamjärv, who has asked whether enthusiasm-based learning and an interest-based school is a reality or a dream for the future. Should we not, in order for a wise Estonian to be the Estonian keyword in the future and the Estonian level of education to ensure sustainable culture, education, growth and development of economics and entrepreneurship, start talking boldly about tax matters? I quote Kalle Muuli, who, in the issue of the Teachers' page on December 21, made the following point: 'If we really want to pay teachers a decent salary, then we will have to start talking about tax increases together with wage increases in the new year. Small taxes and high salaries for teachers are not available for these two things at the same time. ' The Social Democratic Party is ready to take part in the debate, provide its people with the knowledge, skills and experience to ensure that education policy does not remain merely pre-election rhetoric, and wage increases actually affect those who work well on the outskirts of land. Today I was unable to talk about either primary education or the hard work done by the teacher as a solver of social problems and as an early noticeer of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-17_U133	Thank you! No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. On behalf of everyone, I thank the main speakers for their presentations and answers to the questions, as well as all those who took part in this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, the session is over. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 13.02 a.m.
