ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the 17th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today launching two draft laws: firstly, the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity; secondly, the draft law on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the Protocol attached thereto. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi when dealing with these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts; the Management Board decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Now to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Social Democratic Party Group. a Draft Act amending § 7 of the Social Tax Act, initiated on 5 June, commission of the Finance Committee; secondly, the Estonian Central Party faction. a Draft Act amending § 27 of the Pre-School Children's Institution Act, initiated on 6 June, commission of the Committee on Culture; thirdly, in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. a Draft of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted on 6 June, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded to the European Union Affairs Committee the Government of the Republic. a The following drafts were submitted on 6 and 7 June: First, a draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 96/53/EC of 25 July 1996 laying down the maximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic for road vehicles circulating within the Community and the maximum authorised weights in international traffic. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft directive. The deadline for the opinion is 20 June at 4 p.m. Secondly, a draft decision of the Council of the European Union establishing the position to be taken in HELCOM and IMO regarding the designation of the Baltic Sea as an area for the control of nitrogen oxides emissions. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Economic Commission and the Environment Committee to give an opinion on the draft of the Government's positions and decision. The deadline for the opinion is 13 June at 4 p.m. Thirdly, a draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC as regards disclosure of non-financial and diversity information by large companies and groups. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft directive. The deadline for the opinion is 13 June at 4 p.m. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present; no 19. Let's get to the adoption of this week's agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote on the agenda for the 17th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one was against or impartial. This week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to today's agenda. Today we have an inquiry. This is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Mailis Repsi, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Kadri Simson, Aivar Riisalu, Valeri Korbi, Lauri Laasi, Peeter Võsa and Ester Tuiksoo on 13 May concerning the tools and safety of practical subjects (No 336), Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkogu. I would like to introduce the questioning to the speaker's desk, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U5	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Our questioning concerns the area of 'what you sow, you reap', or it talks about the tools of practical subjects and the safety of these subjects. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act provides for compulsory subjects in employment education, handicrafts, home affairs and technology education. According to the decree of the Government of the Republic, at the end of comprehensive school, the student must be able to use different materials and tools in the field of technology. The Estonian Labour Teachers' Society has stated that the selection of primary tools in schools is narrow and does not support the completion of the national curriculum. According to the decree of the Government of the Republic, the school must allow for initial individual tools of work, cutting, measurement and marking for the study of work, and this list could be continued. Basic tools such as screwdrivers, hammers, slices, etc. are generally considered as primary tools. A battery drill, for example, is not considered a primary tool. The choice of primary tools depends in many respects on the head of the school, and often the economic problems of schools are solved at the expense of the teaching of work and technology, which is very regrettable. In this case, teachers are unable to teach work according to today's requirements, and teaching this subject is no longer motivating. It is difficult, if not impossible, to obtain additional technological resources. A public procurement has been carried out so far, and all Estonian schools were equipped with electric handicrafts. So far, they've been amortised and they need to be replaced. In addition, insufficient ventilation in workshops, which has a direct impact on the health of both students and teachers, remains a major problem from the point of view of work and technology education. Teachers' health is most at risk because they stay in workshops day after day. It would be self-evident that, if the national curriculum provides for the teaching of such subjects, the space reserved for this purpose will meet specific standards. Unfortunately, they have not been developed in Estonia. A young person's work habits are known to develop especially in primary school and perhaps to a lesser extent in upper secondary school. This is why the issue is of the utmost importance in the social sense. How could there be workers in Estonia who take our economy forward when we make it clear to the students at school that doing some simple but important and sweet work is as if it has to be done with lower-average means and under harder-on-average conditions? That is why we have three questions for the Minister, on which we hope to have comprehensive and reasoned answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U6	Thank you very much. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science of the Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U7	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good questioners! The waitress must have made a mistake. There are four questions on the paper that have come to me, but the good ambassador only wanted three answers. I have the fourth answer with me, and I'd be happy to report it. But now to the essence. The first question: 'When is the plan to establish a list of primary tools for the subject of work education and its public funding, which would ensure a level playing field for each school to complete the curriculum? ' As a general remark: the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act quite unambiguously lays down the responsibilities of the schoolmaster in ensuring school education and financing schools, and what are the responsibilities of the state. It is the responsibility of the schoolkeeper to provide the tools, if necessary, with the support of the State. Now, more specifically, from the work program. The question concerns the subject of 'work education', which is taught according to the national curriculum at 1 to 3. in class. Eight goals have been set for teaching this subject. The most important of these are to provide first-level students with the joy and satisfaction of doing work, to guide them to observe, feel and appreciate the material environment, to work safely alone and with others. A student of this age must know how to maintain cleanness at home and at school and to meet hygiene requirements, be aware of the need for healthy eating and care about the traditions of his/her home and Estonian culture. Such a primary introduction to the field of work will enable the school to develop habits on which to build more specific technological skills in the future, in the second and third stages of school. But especially at this level of school, these goals require the teacher to be professional in teaching the subject by age-appropriate means, so that the child learns to come up with creative solutions and simply carry them out. Creative solutions do not require the use of special tools at this age. The student learns about and uses a wide range of materials and tools as well as simple processing methods. I would stress that these are simpler means: according to the agenda, they are paper, cardboard, cardboard, textile, leather, plastic, foam material, wood, wire, tin and other materials that can be successfully recycled, for example, in art. The obligation to obtain these simple tools is the responsibility of the school and, therefore, the school manager, i.e. the local government, in accordance with Section 2.1.4 of the State syllabus. Now, if the Ministry of Education and Research were to establish a specific list of tools and other tools to give the subject of work instruction, this would severely limit the teacher's freedom of creation. The acquisition of such initial skills is possible by almost all available means, ranging from sand and bark to a wide range of other materials. So it is not appropriate to put national standards into a uniform framework. It has to be acknowledged that the Ministry of Education and Research has indeed organised public procurements, but they were completed for the very simple reason that the needs of schools are extremely different and standardised solutions are not considered reasonable or feasible. The second question: "Does the Ministry of Education and Research support the amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and, in this connection, to the Amendment to the Law amending other laws, which aims to define the teaching tools for practical subjects under study literature? ' As far as technology subjects are concerned in general, including crafts, home affairs and technology teaching in second and third grades, there is no intention or reason to establish a list of primary tools. The obligation to provide the school with the necessary budget is the responsibility of the school manager, such as the local government. The State supports the municipality in covering the costs included in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, as provided for in § 82 (3) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. I would like to stress once again that the draft law amending the basic school and upper secondary school law currently being dealt with does not provide for any changes in this respect. Thus, state support is provided for the acquisition of necessary textbooks, workbooks, workbooks and worksheets in comprehensive school. These are tasks that are legally assigned to the state. As a mid-term remark, I admit that there have been serious complaints about the content of textbooks in schools, students and publishers. Currently, the country has no definition of the extent to which it should support the procurement of textbooks, workbooks, workbooks and worksheets. It is proposed to complement the provision of the PGS so that the Ministry of Education and Research retains the obligation to define teaching literature in a certain part. But if we go on from here, standardising all the teaching tools is too much for us. It is true that once these funds have been acquired, the law allows the municipality to grant state support to its schools for the acquisition of other educational resources. In the end, the Ministry of Education and Research does not support the inclusion of practical subjects in teaching literature; we do not think it would be appropriate to draw up such a list. The third question: 'Schools do not have enough bounty to buy the tools they need in work education. When is it planned to organise public procurement for the acquisition of new teaching tools needed in employment education? ' There is no plan to organise public procurement for the acquisition of new teaching tools required in employment education. The responsibilities of the state and schoolkeepers for financing the school, including the acquisition of educational resources, are laid down in § 82 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act. According to this, the state allocates a fixed amount per student for the acquisition of study literature, which is reviewed each year. As regards the way in which the school should organise the acquisition of other resources needed in the learning process, it is up to the schoolkeeper to decide. Once again, I very much doubt the wisdom of organising such nationwide screwdriver procurements. In the case of such a procurement, it is quite likely that the schools that already have screwdrivers can't do anything with new screwdrivers but leave them lying around, so that they eventually disappear. However, those schools who think that hammers are needed instead of screwdrivers would be unhappy because they are not needed. So we don't think standardisation at this level is right. It should be based on school and even more, even on the particular teacher's preferences and on the school's learning process. A good work teacher asks the children what they want to do. I do not believe that setting standards at national level would improve the quality of this learning and the design of work habits. As to whether schoolkeepers have enough money, it is the statutory responsibility of schoolkeepers to carry out these tasks. True, we can hear from here and from there that schools can't handle their tasks. However, a closer analysis has to say that there are schools that do very well with the resources allocated to them, and for whom there is no reason to claim, as good questioners have argued, that the choice of primary tools depends in many ways on the head of the school and often solves the economic problems of schools at the expense of work and technology education, and there are schools that never manage it. I am of the opinion that this is, above all, the weak supervision of the schoolmaster. However, since this has become a serious problem for many schools, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act has provided for a higher supervisory burden for the state, but also for greater responsibility for the head of school. We must not be faced with situations where legal obligations are not complied with or carried out selectively, preferring one or the other substance or teacher. So it's the duty of a schoolgirl and it could stay that way. At the same time, we are convinced that these educational resources should be available to children and it would be wrong to require parents to bring them to school on a large scale. We take the view that this is the job of a schoolkeeper, and we hope that the schoolkeeper and the headmaster will also give it worthy attention. Question 4: "When are we going to develop requirements for study rooms and work environments in work and technology education? " In this regard too, the questioners must have been poorly informed. They refer to the fact that such standards have not been developed in Estonia. In June 2012, the Ministry of Education and Research gave coordination to the draft regulation "Health Protection Requirements for Schools' of the Government of the Republic, developed by the Ministry of Social Affairs, which was adopted as a regulation on 30 May 2013. It also lays down requirements for teaching rooms and working environments in work and technology. That kind of answers for me. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U8	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U9	Good minister! The clearest truth is what you have experienced through personal experience. I clearly realized in school classes that I would never be a metalworking man or a furniture maker. Therefore, I think that work teaching plays an important role in shaping a person's destiny - everyone gets the opportunity to try and understand what he is capable of in life. Hence my question: how do you view the Ministry of Education and Research as a minister, and how does the Ministry of Education and Research generally view the teaching of work? Do you view this as a matter of choice for a person?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U10	I'm gonna answer a little bit wider. I agree with the officials of the various departments of the Ministry of Education and Research that our school could be more practical. More practical in a slightly broader sense than just work. I consider it very practical and why not also work-based, for example, outdoor training or discovery training, where part-handed and partially meaningful spiritual activities not only acquire theoretical knowledge but also begin to understand their connection with the practical or material world. I'm sure there's a lot to be done here. Estonian schools have also done a great deal in this direction. True, it has not reached the practice of all schools on a daily basis. So work teaching, or more generally technology, certainly deserves more attention. But once again, these changes are far from happening in such a way that the wise Riigikogu comes together and issues a ukase, or a document, that is to say, an order to organise something much better. This is certainly also necessary, but we actually need a change in the school culture, that is to say, in the practical activities that take place in the classrooms. What matters is how it happens, to what extent it is related to real life. It is much more difficult to achieve this change. I could even go one step further and say that if our teacher training revolution based on a broad-based cognitive educational paradigm fails, then the practical organisation of school life tends to be the same as I have experienced during my schooling that important things are still mathematics, Estonian language and foreign language, perhaps also history, if, for example, the head of class happens to be a history teacher, but work teaching and some other subject with more practical orientation tends to be secondary to purely attitude rather than the letter of the law. So I also call on the Riigikogu to think about what we should do at law level in order to shift this paradigm more towards practicality. I am pleased because it seems to me that we are thinking alike on this issue, that I do not see any political contradiction here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U11	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U12	Minister, thank you very much. In 2010, the Estonian Labour Teachers' Society conducted a survey on "Proposals of Teachers and Teaching at Estonian School." It turned out that 42% of schools participating in the survey lacked general ventilation and 78% lacked local ventilation. Can you tell us what the situation is now? It's been a couple of years, and maybe something's been done?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U13	I'm sure something's been done. I believe this, above all, in view of the fact that such information cannot be unknown to schoolkeepers. Nor can it be known that this situation is primarily the responsibility of the headmaster and the schoolmaster. As far as public schools are concerned, I dare say that they are much better off. At the same time, I am convinced that local government schools, too, have improved and are improving further over the years. Finally, in view of the future, the programme for investment in schools planned for the coming financial period will certainly help to solve this problem as well. But I would like to stress once again that the primary responsibility lies, rightly, with the direct organiser of the work, who is the principal at school and the head of the particular school. Let us not take this responsibility away from them, but support them! I believe that the adoption of a regulation on health protection requirements at the initiative of the Ministry of Social Affairs is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U14	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U15	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. My question relates to the last sentence you said in response to an inquiry. I understand that school rooms must be safe for children, but the design level of new schools is very different. I know that in 2006 the Estonian Technology Education Association issued recommendations on how to build schools, and it seems strange that we did not impose these conditions until the end of 2012. Was there nothing better to take, or why such a big difference, even for five or six years?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U16	First of all, there is no reason to claim that there were no conditions at all and that teaching could take place in any way at school. That's definitely not true. What am I pushing for? That harmonised health standards have only recently been introduced, and I believe that they correspond to today's perceptions of this environment. However, I come back to the beginning of the question. I think that the demands of the people involved, i.e. technology teachers, crafts or work teaching teachers, on the working environment are justified. Moreover, if they were not, if health at work was not considered necessary, the employers, who are responsible for this situation, would not act either. We certainly cannot place everything on the hands of the Labour Inspectorate and other national bodies. So this kind of attention to schoolteachers and directors to the need to improve working conditions is absolutely appropriate and must be paid regardless of what is done in this area in the Riigikogu or the Ministry of Education and Research. On the basis of the established standards, as has already been said, standards exist, occupational health care must be maintained at all times. I believe that this particular letter also referred to this. But once again: I am convinced that the situation has improved and will continue to change.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U17	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U18	Minister, thank you very much. At the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 6 June, which took place in connection with the festival, which was on 7-8 June and was called 'Behind the trees is a person', the leaders of the special needs organisations highlighted the concern that in connection with the reform of schools for children with special needs, some schools would be closed and their children would be enrolled in mainstream schools. Have you, too, come to your attention with these people's concern that there may not be everything in ordinary school that is needed to teach children with special needs? Has this concern reached the Ministry? And when it does, will you share that concern? Is there a solution coming from the state, or is it local government?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U19	I'll start with the introduction to this question. It reflected the view that special schools for children with special educational needs are now being shut down and that these children must go to general education schools in general. This is not an adequate description of the situation. We know that the number of children in Estonia has fallen considerably. And if the overall number of children decreases, the number of children with special educational needs will also decrease. So, for very objective reasons, it is necessary to tighten up both in schools for children with special educational needs and in mainstream schools. The proportion of students who continue to study in schools for children with special educational needs or in classes remains unchanged. There is no plan to target a large number of children with special educational needs into normal classes. It's probably the tenth time I've come across a question like this. This information isn't true! True, the Ministry of Education and Research, together with Parliament, has supported the principle of inclusive education and parents have the right to put their children into mainstream school even if they have special educational needs. A lot of parents do that. This is reasonable, and education policy and practice must certainly support it. For children with special educational needs, much has also been done in mainstream schools on both intellectual and organisational, practical aspects. But it is certainly not an area where there will be some fundamental changes, except for this principle of inclusive education, which we are increasingly using. As far as responsibilities are concerned, they are enshrined in the law. And just as the law requires, we should organise our educational life. These obligations, which the law imposes on the State or, more specifically, on the central government, must be borne by the central government, and those which the law imposes on other partners in the education sector, be they schoolchildren or, under certain conditions, the local government at large, must be borne by those institutions. It is not reasonable to take responsibility from local authorities and other partners in the education sector at all times and to nationalise education as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U20	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Education and Science! Vocational school teachers often complain that boys who grow up in an apartment come to school, but they can't even hold a hammer. As we know, studying in vocational schools is not very popular. Your answers are to understand that this whole field of work education is up to the head of school. Why is the Ministry trying to distance themselves from the subject of work education? Don't you think the Ministry should act quite vigorously and support the teaching of these subjects in an accelerated fashion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U22	I can't imagine how an accelerated study of these substances can be done. You indicated that many of the young people raised in the city have been excluded from practical work at work. This is an objective problem and cannot be fully compensated by the education system. Can we have a special view of work teaching? I think that things are quite the opposite: the Ministry of Education and Research has paid even more attention to technology education than to other subjects. In this sense, I do not understand your reproach, to be quite honest.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U23	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U24	Good minister! If mom and dad can't teach a kid what the square root is, they teach it at school. But if parents can't teach you how a nail gets knocked into a wall, then it can happen that there's a mom in the family and grandma and daddy aren't, then who's gonna teach you how a nail gets knocked down? That's when school's supposed to teach it. Indeed, the same professional schools that the previous questioner spoke of are increasingly complaining about the arrival of students who have not received any work education or at least seem not to have done so. If we don't want to blame this on home, what's the reason for the problem? Why, however, do students not get practical skills and knowledge from basic school?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U25	Good questioner! Well, professional people always have relatively high demands. As a professor of physics, I was also repeatedly forced to admit that our high school graduates knew nothing about physics as if they never went to school. The temptation to make high demands is for every specialist, and it is not bad in itself. Another observation, which, I think, is also relevant. Let's think about it! The thing is, parents have been able to live their lives, raise their children and even get a job, but they don't know who's got a hammer to hold a needle. Perhaps it is worth considering that perhaps the range of skills in our society has shifted. These skills, which were considered elementary 50 years ago, are of secondary importance today. New skills, including manual skills, have come in place, which the younger generation once again possesses and is required by the modern way of life based on the technological platform. So I would be very careful with the approach that we should promote technological skills, let's say, with an axe and a shovel. Just as we no longer teach mathematics with calculating sticks and billboards, much of the technological competence must be based on another approach. So let's look at everything from the point of view of the evolution of history. I dare confirm that there is a problem, but at least for me, and perhaps objectively, its core is not in poor teaching tools, but in society, including the attitudes prevailing at school. Changing these attitudes is harder, certainly harder than buying things, because it is not dependent on money, but on changing the way you think in all people's heads.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U26	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister. Let's open the negotiations. Aivar Riisalu, as the representative of the interviewees.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U27	Good manager! Good Minister and ladies and gentlemen. It has to be admitted that the Minister was completely honest and objective on some points today. That's a pretty good bow for him. Above all, in my view, the Minister's position, which had a symbolic meaning, was that the school must become more practical. This is really important. I would now oppose the Minister's claim to a more practical side of life, which I increasingly feel when living in rural areas. Young men tend to drop out of middle school as a rule. And if you try to use these young men, even in the local economy, to stop them from turning to crime or to find any meaningful activity on working days, the question that we often encounter is that they really can't hold onto anything but a bar. If you ask him if you've held the hammer alive, the answer is no, I dropped out of middle school in sixth grade, and I don't know what a hammer is. I ask if Dad didn't teach, and he says I don't have a father, I've never seen him. It is saddening that in Soviet rudiments, panel houses that are in former collective and Soviet centres, practical management alongside the mother has not been possible for these young men. Their only chance has been school, and if they don't get into this inner self-founding from school, maybe they don't realize that I'm meant to do this, the second or third thing, then they're literally gonna stay around and we're gonna be in trouble again. We don't get to see girls aged 18 to 19 funny like that, and these boys are having a hard time starting a family later on. Now they're gonna be good enough for the Defence Forces under the new law, and there's a way to bring them back to life, as they say. As a result, it can be argued that a practical school and later military service could be one of the aid packages offered by such young men throughout society so that they could learn to make a difference in their own lives. Sometimes, for example, when you build a cattle collage, you can do such a simple job if you are a good and starter, a very necessary person. Everyone has a place in society. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U28	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U29	That's why I'm saying that in the primary classes, where these boys are sure to do their school duty, they could learn the first ways of working, with proper tools and with relatively motivated good teachers. Eating and certain other activities, if taught at the right time, are perfectly affordable for everyone. That is why I am also saying that the subject that was under discussion today is, in fact, a crucial one. As a practicing entrepreneur, I also dare say that the greatest problem facing our society in the near future will be the lack of good workers. You can even raise a good working person in your company if you don't want to go to a vocational school because it may require too much focus and no direct income. Money is a key issue for a young person, however, and he wants to afford something. If such a person has been given an understanding of what the work process means and, at a mature age, wants to make some money, if you put these two things together, then it is possible for these boys to grow a normal workforce in practical business. What's important is that they don't think at the critical moment of childhood that Angry Birds and whatever such things are the basic and caring mother in life, who makes them do nothing, that's the real picture of the world. At this point, I do not agree with the Minister when he says that the range of certain activities may have shifted in some respects. It is certainly not possible to do all things by machines in our earthly practical activities. If you buy a fireplace tree too thick at the heating office, you could still cut the tree in half at home without cutting off your finger. Whether we like it or not, such practical skills remain a necessity. By jumping a little away from today's subject, I dare say that again, because Mr Minister is a former Minister of Defence, he probably very much understands that defence service is also an important part of social policy. Within this social policy, boys who are too well-groomed from a caring family, and soon many girls who want to go there voluntarily, will be placed to learn how to dress up for independent lives, to clean up after themselves, to understand what a decent bed means, to understand what a clean cloth means, because a soldier needs to look properly. The same principle that the state has to deal with such matters, even though it may seem a little annoying to the state. One sentence that scratched the soul a little today was the reference that let the schoolgirl, this local government, be responsible and engaged. But the local government is also part of the country. That is why I am saying that we should understand, looking at the big picture, that all the activities we do make our people better in quality, more independent and more ambitious. And what our people are depends on the country's tax base and the overall well-being. Something may seem annoying, but in the long run, it may be very important. You might ask, "What does talking about a tree in the third grade give me? It made me realize that I would never be a furniture player. Fortunately, the teacher didn't tell me that I would ever be a member of the Riigikogu, but I learned that I had to go to study and do something else, something I understood. I assure you, we did not seek any contradictions in the answers to today's inquiry. And it must be admitted that the Minister's view that the school must be made more practical is certainly a position that the Centre Party supports on two sides, because then our lives would become very much better and our future would be a little more secure on our feet than it seems now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U30	Thank you very much. Any more requests for negotiation? There are no more requests for negotiation, I will conclude the debate on the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U31	Ladies and gentlemen, after the hammer hit, it is possible to register for speaking in a free microphone. And please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U32	Ladies and gentlemen and everyone else who is watching us! I would remind you that this Friday is the national day of mourning in Estonia, where the injustice and victims of Stalin's repression are remembered. But the day before, June 13, there is another day of mourning, not nationally. Our country is not yet ready to witness and celebrate this day of mourning, but I hope that after the local elections of 20 October and the next year, 2015 the Riigikogu elections, together with the new government taking office, will reach the maturity of our country, and that the Estonian state will recognise its debt to some 100000 forced tenants and their family members, acknowledges this extreme injustice that has been done to its families who have been expelled from home. Ownership reform began 22 years ago, on June 13, 1991 in this very hall. The first version of the Ownership Reform Foundation Act, or ORAS, was a balanced and human-friendly law aimed at giving back property taken away to former owners and obliged municipalities to grant equivalent housing to the families of tenants who had been evicted and evicted from their homes in the same residential area. Paragraph 2 (2) of the Law sounded very promising in 1991, as it prohibited new injustices in the application of the Law, namely for forced tenants. However, this last one did not work out because human greed in Estonia grew bigger than fair law would have allowed. Still, the former owner or his representative missed a house, barn, or shed. When the government of Mart Laar came to power and the Minister of Reform Liia Hänni was appointed, the law was redeployed on the initiative of the Patriotic Union in order to find the owner of the last one as a lobbyist, the last one as a lobbyist. Everything, even debt-covered properties, began to be returned. Mortgages and loans taken but not paid to build houses were forgotten. With the aim of expanding the circle of owners, the law has been transformed about 40 times and still in order to be able to return more. National-radical political forces began to restore legal continuity at the time, without taking into account justified objections and direct warnings from scientists and politically balanced forces. Abandoning the path of social and economic solidarity, the freedom of unbridled selfishness was unleashed. Clear the deck! The country is a bad host! We only help those who can help themselves! These were the slogans of Mart Laar and Liia Hän's term of office. There's an early insane redistribution based on political decisions. The forced tenants living in the owners' houses lost their legally obtained homes without being compensated for this loss, as was the case in Poland, Germany, Latvia, etc. The rest of the residents who lived in rental dwellings in the Russian period, such as Mustamäe, Lasnamäe or Annelinna, were able to privatise their homes, and the forced tenants were not given this opportunity. The Union of Tenants, the Association of Cities, NGO Home Law and others involved in this reform are now demanding the redress of this injustice. Now it's time to start paying back debts. According to the calculation of the Tenants' Association, the state robbed forced tenants of about 10 billion Estonian kroons because these people could not privatise their housing. The Union of Estonian Tenants and the politicians of the Centre Party support him will go to the elections on 20 October and the 2015 Riigikogu elections with a slogan 'Mah Ansip Government! '. The tenants will vote in favour of those political forces who are willing to apologize for the injustice done to the forced tenants and are ready to begin to remedy the consequences of the ownership reform. It must certainly be accompanied by material compensation for a home taken away 20 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U33	Thank you very much. And please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the most painful decisions that have ever been made in Estonia and in this Chamber relate precisely to ownership reform. However, Estonia has been governed for a long time in the same way that if you are opposed to government policy, then you are also opposed to the Estonian state, so you are an enemy of the state. And ex-days and weeklys, TV channels and radio stations mostly follow the same principle in news and opinion stories. But even more so, the attitude of publications is shown by what important issues are not reflected at all. One of the topics that has been excluded from orbit in mainstream media, i.e. pro-government media, is the presentation of the latest report by the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. This report has been very critical of Estonia, not only this year, but also on previous occasions. Fortunately, the capital newspaper has opened this issue and filled its information gap. The report points out that, in terms of our high housing costs, low employment, low wages and pensions, poor health and the relationship between work and leisure, we are even lagging behind Russia. In terms of income, we are among the most recent OECD countries. The report states that although happiness is not about money, money is, however, a very important means of achieving a higher standard of living, which we are unfortunately lacking. The average disposable net income of the Estonian household is currently USD 12800 per year, while the average for OECD countries is almost twice as high. Separately, there is a huge gap between the richest and the poorest. The upper group 20% of the population earns five times more than the lower 20%. In terms of average income, Estonia is only ahead of Brazil in the OECD country ranking. And we're not happy about that either, so we're the fifth from the back. The people of Estonia work more hours, but in these hours they earn less money than workers with fewer hours in other countries. And we're getting poorer and poorer. At this rate, we will never be able to reach the rich countries, but we will be poorer and poorer. This means that we are in a constant poverty trap, and we will remain in the slave business, and that is what the report points out. There is also such a contradiction that, on the one hand, we are cheap labour and, as such, we are taken elsewhere, but, on the other hand, we have over-average educated people. The report states that the quality of the Estonian education system is excellent. Consequently, there are contradictions in economic policy, which have left nothing to do for years. It is not economic policy if we say that the market will set everything right. The state still has to intervene. Better politicians, of course, have not wanted to understand this for years. Both this time and earlier reports about Estonia have highlighted the deadlocks of our health policy and its funding. The constant underfunding threatens the health of our people and the availability of health care is, in fact, a poor expression of health care, and it is more correct to say that medical care is available. On the one hand, the risk of people paying very much from their own pockets when receiving medical care is particularly high for dental care and medical treatment, on the other hand, the waiting lists for specialised medical care are long and increasing, both due to the lack of money and the lack of staff. Estonia is a member of the OECD countries. We've wanted to go there ourselves, and we're paying a big tax. OECD experts-analysts, the best brain potential, have given us a lot of recommendations, criticised us very much and highlighted our weaknesses, but we are not listening to them. We will not even translate this report. So the question arises as to whether we really have to be part of it. But if we asked the Prime Minister in Question Time the day after tomorrow, he would answer the question why we do not love our country, that he is proud of this kind of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U35	Thank you very much. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U36	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the most topical and fiery issue is certainly the e-vote and its credibility. Honourable elections of NGO Honours have done a great and remarkable job in explaining the problem, through which renowned experts from various countries around the world have appeared in Estonia, such as Barbara Simons from the United States, Jason Kitcat from Great Britain, Harri Hurst from Finland (now working in the United States). All of them have made clear in their reports the inability to guarantee the security of their voice on the Internet. Unfortunately, their warnings among e-voting pushers have sounded like deaf ears. Now one party took up and made it clear from a practical example how illogical voting is in the online environment. Even the president could no longer remain calm, although he is, as we know, a big fan of e-attribute. He emphasised, quote: 'One party's internal elections and Estonian e-elections are both essentially and technically two completely separate things. That's the difference. " In part, he may even be right. In the internal elections of the party, it was probably possible to control the arrival of votes, or the fraud would not have come out otherwise. This is absolutely not an option for e-elections in Estonia. For example, if the voter gives his or her vote to Jaan and it is redirected to Juhan in Internet sites, then the voter will never know that he or she received his or her vote. And it can't be controlled by any observer. I will go on to talk about the President's response to this event. In his move, the President once again made it very clear that he is not the president of the entire nation, but the President of the political parties that put him in office. A few years ago, when certain authorities organised the defamation of the Centre Party, the president rushed to the screen and fell to scold and warn the party. Now that his so-called mother party had sinned, the President called all the parties to him and tried to spread sin evenly over everyone. This can be read out of the President's statement with extreme clarity. Everything is very simple: all of you are just as crooks and a specific culprit as it is not. This explains very clearly why power parties are categorically opposed to the President's direct election. Perhaps the elected president of the people would really be the president of the people, and he would not have appointed him on the leash of political parties. When another scandal about how the president's family spends public money for its own good exploded in early spring, I guess this time it was about paying off a more expensive wardrobe, if the representation costs would have allowed it, then it was finally unclear whether it was the use of the yokk scheme or not. Probably was the shit, because there were no sanctions and no paybacks. This time, the political parties that appointed him bowed to the President. With regard to the whole scandal, however, the question of whether our small country needs a president at all was raised in the press for a while. Some thought that this function could be performed by the Speaker of the Riigikogu. It seems to me that if the President's people are not allowed to choose, it is better without the President than with the President of a party on a leash. However, I come back to the e-vote. On the basis of the above and the fact that the Estonian Centre Party considers that the legal regulation of the e-vote and the organisation of the e-vote do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, that the e-vote system contains very high security risks, and the lack of transparency of this system undermines the credibility of the e-vote and of the entire public power, the Estonian Central Party Council decided at its meeting on 8 June that the Estonian Central Party did not support the implementation of the e-vote. The electronic vote undermines the people's belief that our elections are democratic, uniform and fair. We are ready to turn to international organisations and other countries for support. A good voter, by e-vote, you never know where and to whom your voice is directed in the internet. You can never control it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U37	Thank you. And please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U38	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A few weeks ago, I was on a mission to the Riigikogu in South Estonia. There I had several conversations with people I've never met or talked to before. It turned out that there are few of us looking at us in this hall, but this free microphone round is still being watched in Estonia. I want to talk about a very useful meeting for me. In fact, just before that journey, I had spoken about the remoteness of the Riigikogu hall about the development projects that are currently taking place in Narva Industrial Park, which companies are coming there with a great job offer in the course of this year alone. And it turned out to sound like a part of the discussion 'Is there life on Mars? '. This means that Estonia is small, but our peculiarity is the kind of media that only reflects all the bad things that happen across Estonia. Of all the good, good people who live and work in every county of Estonia, there is very little talk about it. When an elephant dies on the beach in Narva, everyone writes about it. No one wants to talk about the creation of 15 new companies in an industrial park in one year. But for that, we have a newspaper like Gorod in town that comes to every apartment for free. This assumes that there can be no lie in it, there can only be the right information. Today I want to do a little review of the last three weeks' papers. For example, no newspaper in Estonia writes or tells about the radio or television that in Narva there are more than 20 years of capital building in the medical sphere. In fact, this autumn, the three-storey building is already ready, but it will be opened in the autumn of Narva to the current 30 care facilities, which are shamefully few, for 85 seats. It is not said that this project costs more than three million euros, 40% of which is borne by Narva Hospital. How else can you know that a great new church is being built in Narva? The newspaper was a bit old, showing only the level of the first floor, but the last time I went there, the building was at an altitude of seven to eight metres. It is very positive that it is being built for the money of the townspeople and the companies working in the city, which means that people still have enough hope of making life better. That is why certain steps need to be taken in the near future, and here I join Mr Kallo's view that there is no need to vote electronically, so that is an opportunity. Much has been said about such things as our kindergarten program, the town's asphalting started at a very good pace, and even trade is booming. An older shopping centre with an area of 19000 m2 has been written off in Narva. It was only taken down to build twice the size of the same place. Together with the building next to it, it becomes the largest shopping centre in East Estonia. There's about 600 parking spaces. We never had an object like this. I made the right choice. I've had five minutes to talk about at least four positive things that take place in Ida-Virumaa, specifically in Narva. But believe me, if I had 20 minutes, I could fill those 20 minutes with this kind of news. It's not all that bad, some places life moves on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-10_U39	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. Today's agenda is exhausted and today's session is over. See you tomorrow morning! Closure of the sitting at 4.06 p.m.
