ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U1	Good morning, good fellows and good guests. We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am handing over the draft law amending the Civil Service Act on behalf of the Centre Party Group. It is our intention to amend Paragraph 60 (5) of the Act and to supplement it with the words that an exempted official is prohibited within one year of the day of the release from the service from becoming a party within the meaning of Paragraph 7 (1) (2) and (3) of the Anti-Corruption Act to a private legal person who has been directly or permanently supervised during the last year. The purpose of the Act is to strengthen the supervision of local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U3	There's no more calls. I have adopted one draft on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. There are no messages today, so please let's do the presence check! 71 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 30. Let's go to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U4	Today we have a debate on the key national issue 'Estonian Human Development Report 2012/2013'. Allow me, good colleagues and guests, to briefly introduce this procedure before proceeding. This comes from § 153 of our Good and Known Home and Working Procedures Act. First of all, the editor-in-chief of the Estonian Human Development Report 2012/2013 Mati Heidmets' presentation is up to 20 minutes. It may also be extended, if necessary, if an agreement is reached with the President. Then there are questions and answers for up to 40 minutes. The editor of "Estonian Human Development Report 2012/2013" Jüri Sepa's presentation will follow for up to 15 minutes. The same clause applies that this period may be extended. Then there are questions-answers for up to 25 minutes. Third, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Andres Herkel, will make a presentation. It may take 10 minutes, and he too has the opportunity to ask for more time. Following questions-answers for 10 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened. We expect everyone to take a very active part, members of the Riigikogu and representatives of the committees and groups can be present. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also proposed to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, if necessary, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let us make sure that we come back to this proposal, if necessary, during the sitting. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. I would now like to ask for the Chair of the Riigikogu 'Estonian Human Development Report 2012/2013' editor-in-chief Mati Heidmetsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U5	Honourable Riigikogu! I am pleased to present this year's report on human development in Estonia. Its subtitle is 'Estonia in the World'. The aim was to look at Estonia's performance and Estonia's position a little further away than we're used to, step out of the circle of comparison with our closest neighbours and evaluate Estonia against the background of the wider world. The evaluation is based on the "development measurement room" in this report. They are familiar to all of us, and they become available through the media, with various standards and indicators that say that Estonia has risen in some order and has fallen in some other order. There's a lot of them these days. One of the aims of this report was to organize this space a little, to highlight these standards in an international comparison that might interest us, which could be meaningful for Estonia, and to present them in the report from the point of view of Estonia's position. This year's report consists of five chapters: human resources, man and society, quality of life, economy and future prospects. If you appreciate Estonia at a global globe in general, it is true that the more you look from a distance, the more beautiful we look, the closer you come, the more controversial and challenging you stand out. It's inevitable, isn't it? I'm not going to rewrite the report in this report. It is publicly available and can be read by any interested person. I would stop at some of the general conclusions and the stocktakings of the report. The first conclusion is that Estonia is, in large part, permanently in the first league. What does that mean? If we take the UN Human Development Index, which ranks countries and peoples, as we know, on the basis of three indicators - health, education and wealth - then in a global ranking of 185 countries, Estonia has been in about 30 positions for the last ten years. In a global comparison, this is certainly a good indicator if we take the length of this list into account. At the same time, the countries with which we want to be similar and where many of our young people go to live when we leave Estonia are usually among the first quarter of the century in the UN order. Using football terminology, it might be figuratively said that Estonia has reached the pre-league relatively quickly from the international mudalia in the early 1990s, but it is quite a land to go to the major league, which is this first quarter. Whether we say it out loud or not, reaching the big leagues will inevitably be our challenge and goal in the near future. This may well be a long period in the short term. The second conclusion is that when comparing Estonia's position on the basis of very different international standards, one mismatch stands out. Very often, Estonia's potential figures are better than the actual result. In international comparison, Estonia stands out in a favourable and special environment of activity without restrictions. This is for people, businesses and NGOs. We generally follow the rules, our people are educated and innovative, our business is simple and the Estonian taxpayer does not spend too much money to repay public debt. You could say this once again in an international comparison that we have been able to build an environment that supports development, while this environment has not yet been converted enough for the well-being of Estonian people and for lasting well-being engines. I mean productivity and business content. Our health, our wallet and our life satisfaction are still among the poorest in Europe. Thus, as has been said, the development environment is good, but development itself is unlikely to meet expectations. This could be illustrated by a summary picture where Estonia has been compared in the context of the European Union. On the basis of the same development indicators, Estonia is better than the European Union average, in which we are more or less at the average level and in which we are below the average. With what indicators, then, are we already among the best in Europe? We are talking, above all, about indicators of certain conditions, the environment, including the operating environment, whether we are talking about freedom or the level of our knowledge, especially for young people, or about our political environment. The trust of the Estonian people in the European Union is one of the highest in Europe. If we look at the figures that we are far below the European average, these are things that are very much felt in our daily lives. Our health, our wallet, our satisfaction in life. Also contradictions in society, its imbalances. Such an inconsistency could characterize Estonia today, and raising awareness could raise the question of how this good environment, which we have been able to create, can be converted into better results in areas where we are still lagging behind. The third conclusion is that, when assessing different international standards from a slightly different perspective and comparing metrics based on indicators that are more objectively measurable, these are indicators of the economy or social security or education, then there is somewhere in the fourth to fifth ten in the Estonian world. Let's say 30 with something or 40 with something. If you ask the people of Estonia, as much as you are satisfied with your life, what do you think about it, from the point of view of such subjective well-being, our country will fall backwards by a step in international comparison. This could be characterised by a table showing probably the world's largest measure of subjective well-being, measured by the American Gallup. They use the so-called ladder metaphor to measure subjective well-being. People are asked this question: "Imagine that there is a ten-degree ladder before you. The tenth degree has the best life you can ever live, and the first degree has the worst life that could ever happen to you. Where would you put your present life on the ladder of goodness? " They ask it almost everywhere in the world. You may try to answer that question yourself, but know that the Estonian average is 5.4. I can't tell if it's good or bad. This figure becomes more explicit when we look at where we come from compared to other countries. And we get close to countries like Vietnam, Turkmenistan, the Dominican Republic, Zambia. However, if you think about more objective indicators of well-being, Estonia is certainly several steps ahead of these countries. We may wonder why this is the case. Is it really that we have a certain tendency to consider ourselves worse than we really are in international comparison? This is the specific nature of the soul of an Estonian person, we think of ourselves a little more critically than necessary. Or such a view is due to the fact that our picture of what is happening in the world is largely confined to the Baltic Sea region, where the bar is really very high and the comparison partners at the top are very close. It was then a question of how a person appreciates his present life. When asked in a different way, ask this question: " Are you optimistic about the future, or are you concerned about the future? ', then Estonia will be in a much better place. Compared to the countries of the European Union, Estonia is clearly among the most optimistic of the European Union. Similarly, the paradox: the current picture or the current situation is assessed relatively critically, while the future picture is more positive than the other Europe. And the fourth conclusion. There's been a hint that we're stuck in the front league where we've been in for a long time. Estonia's position in international comparison has not changed much on the basis of a number of important indicators. We are at the same level as other countries where we were ten years ago. But isn't it also a reason that others go on, not just us? Some examples. In 2005, we were 30th in the Human Development Index, which was already mentioned. Now we're in the same position because the accuracy of the measurement is that plus or minus one or two places really don't mean anything. If we remove the share index of wealth from the human development index, GNP per capita by purchasing power, we can see that in 2005 we were somewhere at the beginning of the fifth ten, and we are more or less in the same position today. We are taking corruption, a very common standard: in 1998, we reached a very high position, 26th place, in the meantime we have always shifted around the 30th position, neither up nor down. Or the proportion of people who are satisfied with life, which is well measured in Europe. There have clearly always been over 90% of people in this so-called major league group who are content with life in the main. The share of these people in Estonia reached 80% by 2006 and so far this figure has fluctuated between 70 and 80%. When we say that Estonia has reached and stopped at some level, when talking to experts, there are two kinds of attitudes. One is the opinion that we just need to give more time, work harder, sweat and bleed, so we'll catch up. The second position is that the development engines that have moved Estonia forward may have exhausted themselves and new resources, changes in policies or unconventional steps must be taken to find a way to the big league. The question of how to approach the major league was one of the main points of discussion in this report. No clear solutions have been proposed here, but at least a few points have been made that could lead us in this direction. Firstly, it turns out, in many respects, that the role of the state should be rethinked, made broader or more meaningful. It is not enough that a country is simply a good provider of a legal macro-economic environment. During the preparation of this report, we conducted a so-called elite survey where top Estonian politicians, economic decision-makers, cultural people and also so-called future makers, or young people who defended their doctorate over the last three years, were interviewed about what they would like to change in Estonia and what developments they would offer to Estonia. The country's expectations clearly emerged from this study. It is not expected that the country will make more decisions, but it wants the country to be more leader, spokesperson, mobiliser, set up cooperation platforms, whatever these experts mean by that. This also appears in the analysis of several chapters of the report, where it turns out that Estonian figures are always better than in international comparison when it comes to an area where national policies have also been known. In areas where national policies have become less favourable, our figures have been poorer. The same message that the country is expected to play a more influential role also emerges from the analysis of the report, where we dealt with countries that have managed to make a rapid leap in development in a relatively short period of time and reach a major league. These countries are South Korea, Ireland, Finland, Taiwan. It has been clear for all, and certainly for some countries, it is also an authoritarian national development policy. The conclusion is that things don't happen by themselves. You shouldn't expect us to get to the big leagues just by spilling blood and sweat. It was difficult to give an example of a country where it has succeeded in this way. The second line of thought is based on the view that certain resources are clearly underutilised and, in some ways, stambles are holding on to our progress in the next period of development. I will give some examples of waste of resources in the field of education. The fact that an eighth of Estonia's growing generation does not go above and beyond basic education is an obvious waste of resources. The fact that a third of the Estonian workforce does not have any kind of professional training in terms of either professional or higher education is a waste of an obvious resource. A targeted bottleneck policy could be one instrument, the use of which would help us closer to the major league. The report also reveals some of the facts, or beliefs. For example, what ensured our success in the first decade of the 1990s or 2000s will work forever. I offer a background on some topics that are currently not very suitable for discussing, even discussing, in Estonia, it is either the tax system or the role and future of the Russian minority. Reaching the High League requires open and dynamic development policy and its adaptation so that it is suited to setting priorities and practices that are suited to the current period of development. There can certainly not be taboo and shame issues in such development policy, and often crazy ideas have proved to be the most constructive. And that's what I want for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U6	Thank you very much, good waitress. You have a lot of questions. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U7	Dear waitress, If you look at the main indicators of population development on page 14, the totals are negative in Estonia, the natural benefits are negative, the migration trends are negative, the total birth rate is well below 2 etc. In statistics like this, we do not see the success story of Estonia, which the government coalition tells us every day. Which one is wrong, government or statistics? And if it is the case, as the Prime Minister says, that Estonia is going to thrive among the five richest European countries, how many of us will be there?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U8	I don't think the statistics are wrong or wrong. The statistics are exactly what they are. If you look more closely at the change in the birth rate or population, this is the long table from which you can see time changes, then it seems that the population picture is much better than it was 15 to 20 years ago. Of course, there's a whole lot more to do. I do not know, nor do I want to take a political position here, who has done something right and who has done something wrong. This report is a source that anyone can interpret from their point of view, and it is one possible interpretation. Our conclusion is, as you can read here, that Estonia has done relatively well over the last 20 years. It is now up to us to find the right ways and ways to proceed with this development story for the next development period.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U9	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U10	Dear Mati Heidmets! As you answered the previous question, according to you, the editor-in-chief of the report, Estonia has done relatively well. However, some chapters show that if Estonia is a good place in the ranking, people's own understanding of their quality of life is not so good. A lot has been said in previous reports about our human assets and how it is treated recklessly. In this year's report, there is a chapter that talks about our poor employees who work full-time but do not earn enough to escape poverty. As a scientist, do you see any special Estonian problem in this, that we have people working for a salary that does not allow us to cope? Or are you saying that this is just a European custom?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U11	This is also a practice for Europe, but in Estonia it is certainly a problem, in my opinion. Above all, we should still understand that this is a tiny society in the context of the world. This is why this whole issue, which could be classified as a waste of human resources, whether it is for people with low educations or for the poor or just for the poor, is a much-greater problem in Estonia than in some countries with a population of 100-million people, whose potential remains untapped to promote life in Estonia. I am convinced, and this has been emphasised many times in the report, that, according to the particularities of a small country, we must under no circumstances accept the exclusion or loss of human resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U12	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U13	Good waitress! In yesterday's briefing, the Prime Minister also thought when he was asked when we would get to the five richest countries, that we would definitely get to that big league. You, too, gave hope in your report that we would make it there and claimed that this leap should be made. But do you know the deadline or dare tell me when we're gonna make this jump? We probably won't make it there, the others will move out of the way. Are we ready to make this jump, and if we're not, when can we be ready? Do you, as a man of knowledge and an educator, dare say it? We've made it to the big leagues in education, but it's like we're getting there in general. Give me that deadline when we're ready to make that jump!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U14	There is no such deadline, but yes, that time doesn't come just waiting. This time can come when a lot of people, including the Riigikogu, are beginning to think about this subject in essence. Indeed, we need to consider whether this entry into the next league requires a change in policy, whether it requires a strategy, whether it requires a certain agreement in society. This was, in fact, what was expected of the Estonian state by means of a preliminary elite survey. What could the state do more than it has done? When you think about Estonia's resources and capabilities, it seems that in this case it can really happen. It's not gonna happen by itself, hard work, maybe in the next few generations we'll be able to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U15	Let's get on with our work. Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U16	Thanks for the report. You dealt, as paradoxical, with the fact that an Estonian person appreciates his or her position relatively low, especially in the light of our objective indicators, and at the same time, in view of the future, he or she is like one of the most optimistic in the world. But is it really paradoxical? Is it not the dissatisfaction with your present life that is optimistically a prerequisite for looking to the future, a source and a trigger for a better future? Do you share the assessment that this "unsatisfiedness" on the scale of about 50 balls is the optimal rate of dissatisfaction? If it went very far beyond that, there would already be a general public depression, if it got a little less, there would be hopeless stagnation. Being happy about the current state may eventually kill you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U17	I don't agree with that. I do not think that in Norway, where people's assessment of their lives is highest in this table, stagnation has arrived and there is no development. It seems to me that a low estimate is a problem for the country. It's just like a human being: if he's self-esteemed permanently, it inhibits his courage to act, inhibits his risk-taking ability, inhibits his sense of well-being, and ultimately affects his health. I do believe that it would be useful for Estonia to develop in a large way if we were to take a slightly more positive view of ourselves and support the people who are in our neighbourhood with some tangible words. I would not say that our current assessment is the best thing that characterises Estonia. I see a spot of concern here, and I think it's right to try and move us up a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U18	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U19	Thank you very much for your excellent presentation. I ask about the links between youth education, unemployment and productivity. When you read surveys and surveys in Estonia and Europe, two generations ago, it was a normal age of four years. Two generations later, it's 24 years old, and that's a good thing. Can you highlight political decisions or public interventions that have led to such dissonance? Perhaps you have some kind of good example to follow in order to increase productivity and youth employment and get rid of one-eighth of young people who are not getting anywhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U20	I do not think that today's young people in Estonia should start working at the age of four. When you think about what the kids used to do, a hundred years ago, it was a very different job if you had to do our 24-year-olds or 28-year-olds. I do not believe that our political goal should be to put a growing generation to work earlier. Our political objective could be to better prepare the growing generation for the labour market. It is certainly possible to take a number of practical steps in this regard. A very simple example: a few days ago, the OECD working group was here to prepare a well-known OECD's 'Education at Glance' report, and the subject of the speech was vocational education. Compared to the international context of vocational education in Estonia, the proportion of vocational education and higher education, we are at the end of this ranking, where there is a great deal of higher education and relatively few vocational education. This proportion may be worth considering. That's a good question, but I don't think our young people should be working early.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U21	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U22	Dear waitress, It was clear from your presentation that Estonia's development in many important passages has remained to commute to the level achieved by 2005. The governments that led the country until 2005 were leading as a development. Am I right to understand that, after 2005, the Estonian state has been simply stagnated in two government periods? Really, areas have been highlighted where, as has not been the case with the active intervention of the state. And it wasn't, because things have not been decided, and the result is almost eight years of stagnation. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U23	That's not exactly what I said. Firstly, this report does not include an analysis of the policy, does not include which policy has been behind one movement or another. The claim that Estonia has remained in the same position over the last ten years does not apply to all areas of life. But for a number of important areas of life, that is true. I can't read stagnation out of it. I can read from this that our development has been faster than that of many others, but it seems that we have been moving more or less at the same pace with other countries in many areas recently. Consequently, our position has remained the same. I agree that it is right to worry that we are not moving fast enough closer to the big leagues. I call for a broader exchange of views on this issue and for proposals on what instruments, which policies, which techniques could help us in this endeavour. Perhaps, for example, the countries that have managed to make the leap into the big leagues would be more closely examined.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U24	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U25	Dear Mati Heidmets, thank you very much for your excellent presentation. Raul Rebane has summed up the Human Development Report with a very cruel statement that Estonia is a country where educated poor women and stupid wealthy men live. How do you comment on the situation in Estonia where a person with a higher level of education gets less paid? What is your view, is it really enough to reduce the gender pay gap merely a communication plan, as our government thinks?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U26	This is an incomprehensible issue of concern for me in Estonia. I don't understand it in the sense that I can't explain to myself where its roots lie and why. We are indeed leaders of the European Union in terms of differences in the situation of men and women, not only in terms of pay, but also in terms of education. Our pay gap is the largest in the European Union and, at higher education level, the gap between women and men is the biggest in favour of women. Surely it is an internal disturbing difference in society when we think about what the result is. The result is that more and more families are like women educated above men, and I feel sorry for this man. There are also more and more young educated women who do not find a suitable companion in Estonia and go looking for him anywhere else in the world. So this is a serious concern for Estonia, which will certainly not be solved by propaganda events. Perhaps this solution could be sought from rethinking school education. When we see where our boys disappear in the educational sense, we see that they're starting to disappear in middle school. There are twice as many boys among the dropouts as there are girls. More boys fall out of each level of education, and it is that among those who have received higher education, when all higher education institutions are summed up, there are about twice as many women's representatives. The process is likely to start in primary school and therefore it should be analysed whether the teaching method is suitable for boys. For many boys, this purely result-oriented arrangement may not be best suited. But yes, the problem is much more complicated and deeper than just a matter of little propaganda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U27	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U28	Mr Heidmets, it is always very interesting to listen to you, and these reports provide a lot of new knowledge. I've been doing a pretty thorough study of the Human Development Report. In your presentation, you also spoke about changing the paradigms and the need to think a little more about the issues that have been taboo issues to some extent so far. For example, our tax system or the situation or general attitude of the Russian national minority when it comes to subjective prosperity today and expectations for the future. I have not read here whether it is possible to draw any conclusions that the assessment of different peoples, mainly Estonians and Russians, is different both in terms of present life and in terms of the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U29	As has been said, this report deals with Estonia as a whole in the context of the great world. We did not go into Estonia to produce it. However, if you use other sources to answer your question, you could say that average life satisfaction rates are somewhat lower for people speaking Russian as their native language than for Estonians. There is a particular difference between trust in a country and a state with a difference of about twice as much. If I remember correctly, among the Russian-speaking population 70-75% does not trust state authority; among Estonians this percentage is 30-40%. Indeed, there is a significant difference in this regard. This problem certainly does not have simple solutions, but it should not under any circumstances be an issue that can simply be overlooked, because it is an uncomfortable subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U30	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U31	Thanks for the report. A slogan that has already sounded a few times here in '15 to the five wealthiest! ' is simple in nature, but now both your presentation and the human development report come out of it, that in essence our goal of reaching the major league of the first league is actually the same. But now my question. The people of Estonia do not want to compare their lives to the lives of the so-called "fate mates" countries. Rather, Finland is one of the analogue countries. Both societies have clearly evolved. Has the gap with the nearest northern neighbour increased, remained at the same level or decreased over the last few years?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U32	The overall assessment is very difficult to make. Depends on the point of view. It is also difficult to compare itself with Finland and the Nordic countries in general because, on a global scale, it is a positive anomaly with almost all the figures among the best in the world. This may also be one of the reasons why we don't feel very well at the best place in the world is right here at the door and next to us. But are we getting closer? We are certainly closer to deciding, for example, on wage levels over a longer period of 15 to 20 years. But whether we've gotten closer in the last five or ten years, it's much more difficult to answer. It all depends on what you look at. Finland is still one of the major league players in Europe and around the world, and it seems that the development of Estonia's last period has not been such that we have grown significantly closer to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U33	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U34	Many thanks to the waitress for a good presentation! Your conclusion reflected such an understanding that the role of the state should be shifted, as those countries that have made leaps have done so with the active intervention of the state apparatus. But the question is this: what function should the state still perform? We have a choice whether to give preference to the policy of the invisible hand or whether the state should intervene proactively in the processes, create conditions, shape policies. Which could be a more effective solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U35	I can't see in black and white that there's either an invisible hand or a country. When we assess other countries that we have analysed, there are both factors: a clear market economy is functioning, and the country has its own objectives and priorities and strategies are in place. The State will involve the various parties and set tasks for a specified period. So I dare say there should be a combination of the two sides that you mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U36	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U37	I was sympathized by the degree of abstraction and neutral attitude of your presentation. Thank you. You have noted that during one generation Estonia has reached the front league from mudaliiga and remained there as if it were stuck. Of course! If we are not a bit impatient in creating conditions, we want to get results right away. It reminds me of a farmer who sowes one week and wants to clean up immediately next week. Is it wise to frustrate yourself with such great pressure? The development of human society is not a sporting competition where only a medal is paid, which, unfortunately, is often obtained at the price of doping. What do you think of this thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U38	Yes, if you look at Estonia's rise from the mudaliist to the first league in a short time, it is certainly impressive. But I don't think we can just relax and think that he'll go. Rational preparation, as well as support for an attempt to change leagues as a next step in the near future, would be appropriate. I don't think it's too frustrating or stressful. There are a lot of people in Estonia who are relatively good at stress tolerance, and I believe that we can also do this task.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U39	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U40	Good waitress! Much is being said about the role of the country in breaking this so-called glass ceiling, and it also came out of today's questions. However, the Human Development Report also talks about the values that our society bears, and it turns out that the people of Estonia do not trust each other, do not help each other, and we have little tolerance. How great a barrier do you think such values are to break this glass ceiling?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U41	That's the subject I left out of the report because of the lack of time. But there is perhaps one Estonian paradox. On the one hand, our verbal attitude: if you look at the Eurobarometer, for example, Estonians are almost the most pro-European nation in the European Union at all. At least in words, Europeanism is firmly part of our identity. Many Estonians feel that they are not only Estonians, but also Europeans. However, if we get a little more into the subject, we can see that many of these values, which tend to be regarded as European values of the great league, are not very appreciated in Estonia. One chapter of the report is a well-known American study of Inglehart's worldwide value. One question of the study is: What do you raise in your children? Are you raising independence or submission and obedience in your children? A typical so-called old European citizen is raising independence in his children. We're on the other side: it's important that the child listens. Or let's see how many people in Estonia are at times willing to express their political position or mind in public, for example by coming to a demonstration or signing a petition. The share of these people in Estonia has been decreasing over the last ten years, although in other parts of Europe this figure is relatively high. So there really are areas where we are more Eastern Europeans in our souls, in our homes and in our daily lives than we want to admit to ourselves. I agree that this is a rather strong mental barrier, which makes it relatively difficult for us to go to the big leagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U42	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U43	Reading the Human Development Report gives the impression that, while it also offers solutions in previous years, this year has largely remained descriptive. In this regard, I have the question whether this was the purpose and purpose of the authors or whether it was simply coming as it came?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U44	That was a purpose. When we look at international practice, the UN tradition of human development reports, we see that these are not usually political documents. These aren't documents that say you have to do one way or another, these are analytical documents. Their aim is neutral photographing and, in this case, comparison. That really was our request. And as the ensuing debate has shown, the same graph, the same number can be interpreted in very different ways, especially when these interpreteres are in different 'political slots'. And it's perfectly natural.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U45	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U46	Honourable waitress! Your report was structured in a very general way, and it was probably the only way to take a picture of it in such a short time. I do not want to get into the details with my question either, but we have repeatedly admitted and obviously society shares the view that we have been quite successful in our slightly more than 20 years of independence. It could have gone much worse, as the practice of several countries shows. But I ask you this: apart from enlightened absolutism and authoritarianism, would the situation in Estonia be much more similar to that in the Nordic countries if we had used any other solutions? Or can we say that we have achieved more or less the maximum?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U47	The honest answer is, I don't know. It is very difficult to speculate that if this had been the case, this could have been the case today. I don't know. But let me comment a little on the statement that Estonia has done well. That's an assessment. And this estimate comes from a comparison with other countries. Absolute standards of good and bad do not exist. The standard of good and bad is what we look like in the context of others. In this comparison, I, too, really dare say that Estonia has not gone badly. We tried to find some countries that were in a worse position than Estonia in the early 1990s and have now passed by. The only one we found was South Korea, but the way rapid development there has been achieved has not been the most European.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U48	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U49	Dear waitress, I'm also touching the role of the state. In what area do you think the role of the state should be significantly increased? If we look at the countries that serve as role models for us - Finland, Sweden and Norway - there is a greater role for the country. I ask you frankly: do you think that our right-wing policy should become more left-wing?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U50	I am not getting involved in politics, especially before the elections. I would say that among the Estonian elite, I am thinking of the four elite groups that we interviewed, not defining their thoughts in such a way as to want this party to rule or to want this view of the world. There is simply a clear expectation that the role of the state will be greater in many areas of life. This wish is firmly in place, and since it is the expectation of the Estonian elite, it is probably a matter of time before it becomes real action and politics.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U51	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U52	Dear waitress, I want to continue on the subject raised by Marianne Mikko, this is gender equality. I agree with you that a good education is one solution. Perhaps not only in primary school, but already in kindergarten, we should talk more about gender issues and try to unthink gender roles. It also depends on how boys view their studies. And perhaps something should also be done to improve the situation of our women. I do not know, perhaps with the introduction of, for example, gender quotas, even temporarily. The state itself could set an example by assigning equal numbers of women and men to the boards of state companies and by taking this principle into account when forming a government office. How many female ministers do we have now? What do you think would be the proactive steps taken by the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U53	Since I am convinced that this is one of Estonia's concerns, I also believe that all the possibilities, all the instruments that have been used and tried in the world, should be put on the table and watched to help. Education is certainly not the only area where something can be done. I am not a specialist in saying that gender quotas in some specific area are rescue grass, but this could entirely be the subject of discussion. It seems to me that the issue of gender has been marginalised in Estonia due to our Eastern Europeanism. For many people, it's more of a joke, not a thing to be taken seriously. It would be good if we could break this attitude even in the media room and make it clear that this is not a subject women want to take advantage of, but is a concern of the Estonian society's structure. I would put all the dozens of techniques that have been used in the world on the table, discuss them calmly and then take the measures that appear to be most suitable in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U54	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U55	Dear waitress, thank you very much for a good and thorough review and for this very pleasant presentation. My question is for you as an educational and social researcher and a scientist. This is absolutely not about politics. Which principle does you, as a scientist, think is right: if you contribute to the human being, there will be economic growth, or vice versa, that we will contribute to the human being when growth has come?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U56	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, This time, the Human Development Report compares Estonia with a large number of countries around the world. How objective is such a comparison? After all, we know that the concept of well-being and sense of well-being depend primarily on the historical cultural background and cultural environment. At the same time, the concept of well-being or the perception of demographic processes depend on the birth rate, emigration, the understanding of whether we are doing well or badly. If we compare ourselves with South America, Africa, Central Asia or Eastern countries, and at the same time know that these people's personal understanding of well-being is different from ours, is it objective?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U57	Thank you. In the previous discussion, perhaps it was already enough that objective and subjective indicators could separate. Obviously, comparative studies of this kind cannot bypass either. The question is, what conclusions do we draw from this? The statistics are certainly objective, GDP cannot in any way be called a subjective indicator, and if they are calculated on the basis of one methodology, they can also be compared. It is a question of what conclusions we are drawing and whether we are using these subjective indicators, as has been done in this report. It was discussed here before whether it was good or bad, that the people of Estonia are relatively dissatisfied with their statistical economic and other indicators. I dare to remain here with Mati Heidmets even with a slightly different opinion, not myself, but I am so clearly reminded by the words of Mr Lauristin in one of our working groups that neither Estonia has a better thing than this dissatisfaction, realising it as a driving force.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U58	Thank you. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U59	Thank you. Thank you for your good presentation. Chapter 2 of the Human Development Report talks about social capital, i.e. networks, norms and trust, enabling participants to work effectively together to achieve common goals. However, this chapter states that studies have confirmed that the lack of social capital goes hand in hand with economic misery. How do you assess whether the lack of trust and capacity of the Estonian people to cooperate hinders the development of our economy, and if so, what solutions could be there to enhance this cooperation and to direct people, businesses more to cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U60	Thank you. Such aspects of social capital are, of course, extremely important for economic development, including the question of trust. If there is a lack of trust in Estonia, it is certainly a factor that is depressing. We know very well that, in terms of trust, the highest level of social capital is in the Nordic countries, in the Scandinavian countries, and there is a very direct correlation to economic development. Basically, more complex forms of cooperation in the economy and society as a whole can be created cheaper and more confidently if the level of trust is higher. The question of how to achieve this is quite more complicated. There are various studies on the possibilities of designing and developing the types of institution. It is usually stressed that informal institutions are still evolving over the centuries and are not changing them overnight. This means that the task is certainly difficult. How to do this, here I will not speculate as an economist and I would essentially hand the question over to Mati Heidmets. But so much from me.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U61	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U62	Thank you! Dear Professor Jüri Sepp! My question does not narrowly concern the chapter that you have edited, but I am convinced that, as an economics professor, you know the answer to that. In fact, I noticed from the Human Development Report that if we compare Estonia with other European countries, statistically our inequality is not so great, but if we ask for the opinion of Estonians, the inequality will be perceived as much more acute. Could this be the reason why inequality is measured by income that has not yet been deducted from taxes, and the Estonian tax system may be perceived as creating greater inequality than that of Nordic countries or old Europe, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U63	Thank you. I don't know, I don't think people are analyzing their answers by giving them exactly this tax system. After all, the tax burden in Estonia is in no way the lowest, and there is no tax paradise here either. How there will be differences between subjective assessments and indicators of objective inequalities is indeed an exciting topic, and I believe that no one can fully answer what mechanisms work here. Mati Heidmets also proposed one factor, which may affect us, we are really immediate neighbours of the Nordic countries, and this immediate comparability can play its role.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U64	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U65	Thank you. Professor, thank you very much for your meaningful presentation. You said, among other things, that we have no problems with the quality of human resources. But I recall that a large proportion of the people who contribute to the economy today have been born, raised and educated before the 1990s. Those born in the last 20 years are just starting to bet. However, I think that investing in people should remain in focus. But the question is something else. What worries me is that our birth rate is falling. Twenty-four thousand children were born a year before the 1990s, today 14000 children are born even less, as there are fewer women of childbearing age. So our internal market is decreasing. How much could our economic development be affected by the decline in the internal market in the future? Did you guys watch that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U66	Thank you. I didn't specifically look, but the question of the size of the market was definitely in this table. At least some of the competitiveness indicators' systems, we used, in particular, the World Economic Forum's rankings, to bring it in and take it into account as one of the factors influencing global competitiveness. Overall, this is the worst indicator for Estonia, which, according to this methodology, leads to our overall competitiveness. It must also have a role to play in justice and truth, and we all feel and sometimes say that price levels are higher in many places than in richer countries, where market size always plays a role, that is a greater or lesser role. There are other factors, but there is a small market problem. On the other hand, I would be happy to examine the methodology from the authors as they have taken into account in their assessments the fact that we are not alone, that we are part of a large European market. This is our way out of the trap of smallness. So the practical answer may be that we are helped by belonging to and learning to carry out larger markets.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U67	Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U68	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You had a good comparison that we are higher in human capital development than in economic development benchmarks. Indeed, more should be said about matters of economic development, and you have tried to find an answer to how to increase labour productivity. In order to move forward in the value chain, the key issue is, after all, the question of how companies receive capital to buy technology and licenses and enter markets. Here it would be appropriate to compare countries and see how things are with the availability of capital, how the securities market has developed, which financial instruments are available. Should we not make such a comparison? Then perhaps we could find an answer to the question of how to increase labour productivity.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U69	Thank you. This should certainly be done, and part of it has also been done outside the Human Development Report. Obstacles have been investigated. Indeed, access to capital tends to be one of the main problems in the responses of companies to future developments. On the other hand, interest on loan capital is currently relatively favourable in the world and it should also be possible to use rather traditional financing techniques for good ideas. It is a fact, yes, that this does not work in the case of small businesses, and so it is that the issue of risk capital in Estonia, compared to the best examples, has perhaps not been resolved. It is nice that the Development Fund will have additional opportunities. But more broadly, in our comparison countries and the world, the capital problem has been solved in two ways. I see Erik Terk here, who has written an in-depth review of innovation systems and developments in innovation policies. It divides the countries into two pages: on the one hand, those countries that have built on foreign capital in their development, à la Singapore in their development jump, and on the other hand, those countries that have somehow managed to mobilise resources internally, à la South Korea. Both have been successful. The question is which way Estonia should go more and what to do. It is certain that the direct use of public funds in the European Union is somewhat problematic in relation to the supervision of State aid. We may not be able to do South Korea here. The question is whether we could perhaps succeed like Singapore, be even more successful in attracting foreign capital, and precisely in mobilising foreign capital that would benefit the next stage of development, which would really help to raise the level of added value.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U70	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! My question concerns shortcomings in economic development. You said in your report that the main problem is that our economy is not developing. What do you think is the biggest problem? Is the problem in conflict with the system? On the one hand, our system is very liberal, I think we have the easiest way to make a company, it will be completed in five minutes. At the same time, on the other hand, we are super-conservative, especially in business communication with the country. On the one hand, we want to include foreign investment, for example, on the other hand, we do not want to allow them to enter the country (for example, it concerns obtaining licences, obtaining coordination). That's one big problem. Or is there a problem with thinking? My colleague Kalle Laane asked Taiwanese businessmen how they compare Taiwanese businessmen and Estonian businessmen. He was told that our problem is that we do not think beyond the Nordic countries, that we have no vision of what they have.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U71	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U72	Thank you. I guess there are problems, yeah, all kinds. At the same time, it should be clear from the outset that the immediate business environment in Estonia is relatively favourable for the creation and operation of companies. In what I called the business environment, Estonia can already be considered a major league. At the same time, there are certainly aspects that can also be a brake, whether or not, or the involvement of foreign labour, which should perhaps be more liberal in some respects than it has been so far. But if you look at where these difficulties are, I would still say that we are going through the world market. Nobody's waiting for us there. The current foreign investments have also rather confirmed the position of subcontractors for Estonian entrepreneurs. We are talking about foreign investment in general as a positive factor, but we cannot miss the fact that if these are foreign investments that form the link of cheap production from Estonia to multinational groups, then we are more determined to remain the poorest brother in this company. The question now is how to get investments that do not put us in the role of a poor brother. Apparently, there's something the government has to do here. I remember an article by a Finnish minister where he deliberately became a Finnish salesman and thought that his main job was to go abroad and sell Finland. One day, he may have taken our minister with him, and it would be very nice if Estonian and Finnish ministers jointly represented the economic interests of their country abroad and looked for foreign investors.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U73	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U74	I can't think of a black and white scheme like that. I think we have to do both. There will be no economic growth without a person, for who will continue to promote this economy and will not make progress in a person's life unless he has material support. I believe that the next waitress, Jüri Sepp, will deal with this in greater detail, but I do not believe that one principle or the other is the right one. I'm sure they're both right.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U75	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U76	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, next question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U77	I have such a simple question. We are already discussing the Human Development Report for so many times that, at first speed, we cannot even tell how many this year are. I would like to ask the authors of the report whether there has been a cross-cutting point in these reports, which is all reflected.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U78	Thank you for your question. Here was a discussion about whether and how the state could develop the capacity of companies for its own part, so that the state could increase its activity in the development of entrepreneurship. The question is, however, that we have obviously not paid enough attention to it so far and have found quite good ways and ways. Maybe it hasn't been topical so far. What I have not emphasised so far is that the issues of business complexity are really topical if we want to reach the top five countries using a well-known expression. As long as our goal is to move from 47th place where we are, let us not forget that we are 47th place, 30th place in economic development, maybe these factors are not the most important yet. I want to stress that we must never forget the success factors of the first league. These are still efficiency and cost factors, and the cost side and other traditional factors of Estonia's competitiveness really need to be cautious.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U79	Thank you. Please, Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U80	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Human resources are certainly linked to labour migration. Unfortunately, it has always been the case that labour is moving from poorer countries to richer countries, unless labour camps stop them. This is what we are seeing now in Estonia. This has given rise to a lot of talk, but there is no good answer to how to resolve the issue so far. But let's take an example from nearby Finland. In the 1950s and 1960s Finland was also characterised by a very large exodus, even up to a million people left, and about 400,000 remained mainly in Sweden and elsewhere. So, in percentage terms, emigration was perhaps even greater than it has been in Estonia so far. At the same time, Finland developed very rapidly and reached the top countries of the world economy by the 1980s. What do you think would be what we could learn from Finnish experience?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U81	Thank you for your question. In the case of Finland, this development in the 1980s may not be the best. We know what happened then and what it was based on. It was still based on the use of the eastern market, and in some ways it was even a trap for Finland's development, followed by a lava. In principle, it is true that people are leaving poorer countries, but in response to the theories of economic growth, capital should come to poorer countries. If these two processes worked as nicely as they would logically have to, then perhaps there would be a balance sometime. I am speculating a bit now, but basically the movement of capital and the involvement of foreign capital can help the Estonian economy to reach a level where people should not go away. Maybe we should think about how to grow capital in Estonia that would not only look for cost advantage and cheap labour, but generate a little better jobs here. Ireland is the best example of such a turn towards migration. For centuries he was a source of emigration, but at a certain stage, when Ireland made its economic leap, it turned out to be a very positive thing. It then turned out that economic development was very beneficial, that there was a large reserve of foreign Irish people. It would be a great happiness if Estonia were to do the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U82	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Waitress. A few days ago, we again discussed the topic of smart specialisation under the leadership of the Development Fund here in the Riigikogu. The objective of smart specialisation is to identify those business areas with higher than average growth potential, the added value created and the possibility of achieving a competitive advantage through R &amp; D investment. In Estonia, horizontal use of ICT, health technologies and services and more efficient use of resources were selected as areas of growth. What do you think if the country is going to contribute more to these three areas, can we then achieve some kind of visible growth and make a leap in the rankings you talked about? Will concentration in certain areas help us to succeed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U83	This is a very important and fundamental issue. However, there is probably no single answer to that. These areas, which you have mentioned, are certainly promising in terms of world trends, and they are derived from the analysis of trends. At the same time, it is again a problem that these are global trends and probably many countries are trying to make progress in exactly the same areas. I am not sure that Estonia will necessarily be more successful than these. However, yes, this has apparently been based on the IT potential and perhaps also on the current level of development of our health care system. So I'm not arguing in any way that it would be irrational to try to make it through the world. At the same time, if we look at the current areas of Estonia's success, they are still quite different. If you look at the productivity table in the report, we can see that the timber industry and the logistics sector are clearly at the forefront of the processing industry. I would not consider these directions to be less promising than what you have called them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U84	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for our questions and answers is over. Thank you very much, Professor Jüri Sepp, for your presentation and your answer to questions. Next, I call on Mr Andres Herkel, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U85	Madam President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable guests! First of all, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would like to thank the previous rapporteurs for their presentations and, more generally, for their work, all the authors of the Human Development Report and the Estonian Cooperation Assembly, who have carried this process! After these presentations, it seems to me that as a representative of the Commission, I am in a situation similar to that of a scientific popularist in a very thorough study or a modest literary reviewer who must look at a work that he himself cannot write or produce. Anyway, thanks for the job. We discussed the Human Development Report with Mati Heidmets on 17 September and once again stated that this was a very valuable self-reflection for the entire Estonian society, including politicians and members of the Riigikogu. So this certainly deserves a debate in this Chamber. There is only a little regret that we were unable to have an operational human development report already presented in May, while the Commission's work schedule before the summer holidays was very tight. And another thing. When listening to Mr Jüri Sepa's presentation, the idea came that it might have been useful to include the Committee on Economic Affairs in the preliminary debate, for example. It has sometimes been the case that several Commissions take part in the preliminary debate on the Human Development Report. One of them, yes, has always been the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Now, when I look at all this thorough work, I come back to the original design of what kind of literary work this report is, I'd look at it as a collection of stories or novels, which, of course, has a very common line of passage that can be read from different chapters if you go a little deeper into them. Mati Heidmets called it discord. Perhaps in some way our society is characterised by contradictions at this stage of development. How much they now characterize the Estonian soul, it is rather a rhetorical issue. But surely the various contradictions in different areas characterize our daily lives and sometimes our souls become troubled. Indeed, the greatest of the contradictions that Mr Heidmets highlighted is that our position in the various tables of welfare indicators and summaries of the level of development of society tends to be significantly better than the subjective perception of our own situation in comparison with other countries. It's not like it's some sort of cryptic wall, I think it's better to take this dissatisfaction as a driving force. In the parliamentary external communication that I am often involved with, it is actually quite pleasant for people to praise how this, the second and third things in Estonia, are so well resolved that we would fit in as an example and ask if we have any problems. And then it has to be said that we certainly have problems and concerns, that we had a major debate on democracy that was triggered by the process of the people's assembly, and so on. In any case, we are in a much better position than the representatives of those countries where, as we know, there are major problems with the development of democracy, but the international forum is beginning to praise that no, these problems do not exist. In this sense, the critical view, I believe, is extremely important. The second thing that has been most highlighted in this report since the beginning is that we have been able to create some kind of environment that is not very wrong, but we have not been able to convert it into important welfare indicators that are sufficiently reflected in human wealth as well as in health. I'm sure you can't wait to see when it's all coming. It is certainly necessary to look for new solutions and politicians with different directions, parties with different ideologies will see different solutions here, including in this Chamber. Another characteristic contradiction I have to admit is that a great many of these things were brought up by Mati Heidmets, if not in the presentation, when answering questions in some way, it is that we are outstandingly optimistic, perhaps too optimistic about the future of the European Union. While we look at this famous map of world values, there we are among the countries of Eastern Europe and we do not really share the values that are shared in this part of Europe that we are increasingly striving for. I will now turn to this issue, which was described by an opposition ambassador, before he asked the question, as an eight-year stagnation. Have we had stagnation for eight years? I think that such a statement has certainly been put forward. But again, Mr Heidmets's presentation highlighted this issue in several aspects. This was discussed in the Commission in particular in connection with the analysis of the components of the Bertelsmann Transfer Index, which shows that Estonia has, indeed, for ten years now, such a stablely high figure, if you look at the reference countries, we are in the 'first league'. But what turns out a little bit is that these figures haven't changed much in a decade. It can even be pointed out here that some countries have developed faster. Whether it is stagnation or it is such a delicate stagnation, but in any case it is a problem that politicians must take note of. We have not had such a fallback, as these tables show in some countries, especially Hungary or Slovenia, who also make their way to the daily news, but some delicate stagnation really stands out when analysing these tables. And we're not gonna make it out of the front league with a stall. These problems must certainly be addressed. Now there's the contradictions. There is certainly also a need to address the issue of corruption, which was not very acutely mentioned above, but was mentioned. I point to Jüri Island's concluding sentence that international organisations monitoring the level of corruption have repeatedly pointed out the threat of political corruption, the negative effects of which have recently become more apparent. One big contradiction that stands out is that on the value map we are comparable from our level of liberality or freeness to Sweden at all Nordic countries, but at the same time there is another dimension of self-expression, on the value scale of self-realization we are not very advanced. We're still more at the stage of survival-related needs. One interesting contradiction that came to my attention when I looked at all of this is that one of the things already mentioned above is that our people are not prepared for political action, not ready to join. Over 50% of people confirm that they are not prepared to join political petitions. If possible, I'll ask for a little extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U86	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U87	It is all the more worrying that metrics are showing us a downward trend on this issue. Even at the beginning of the 1990s, the whole Estonian society was ready to contribute to the political process, but now it is going backwards. On the one hand, we want to be very demanding about the country, we want to be very free, we want individual freedoms. On the other hand, however, our people are not prepared to take responsibility for the political process. If that is the case, and it came out of this report, it is a matter that directly concerns the area of our Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Yes, we are also running for over 1% of the population in the forthcoming local elections, which is an enormously good figure. How many of them are active candidates, it's a question of its own. How much this has to do with our unfinished administrative reform, that there are just a lot of municipalities, that is the second question. Consider, too, the situation we would be in if Chancellor of Justice Allar Jõks had not, in his time, suspended the banning of electoral alliances in local elections. Juhan Kivirähk and Marju Lauristin also point out that despite the relatively good level of development of Estonian civil society compared to other transition countries, Estonia's political participation indicators score is rather low. Now from the future. I took this opportunity to ask Mati Heidmets whether the subject of the next Human Development Report is already clear. We have now had some very grateful comparisons, in this case more broadly with the world, with a comparison with Latvia and Lithuania in an earlier human development report. Normally, these reports, which relate to the reference moments in this Chamber, are received much better by politicians than those relating to the problems that exist in our society. These are far more critical, and our reactions to what it says are sometimes much more painful. The next human development report, as I understand it, will come in two years and will probably remain to be discussed in the next Riigikogu. What's in its focus will probably turn up in the next few months. Maybe we have some good ideas here to convey. Thank you once again to all the authors, thank you to the Estonian Cooperation Assembly and to today's waitresses!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U88	Thank you very much, Mr Herkel. There are no questions for you. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague, Kadri Samson, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U89	The Centre Party Group first thanks the authors of the Human Development Report. This is a very necessary analysis. If every member of the Riigikogu can also work through this in-depth analysis independently and follow developments in society from the analysis of researchers, then the discussion in the Chamber of the Riigikogu today should focus on what needs to be changed as a result of the analysis and what needs to be done differently in the future. I have to admit that this year, human development analysis got a bit of a weird kick-off when the Prime Minister's Reform Party's general assembly announced that it was an ode, or a eulogy to the Reform Party's politics. Our Prime Minister, who has so far tended to claim that social scientists are wrong, now took over the style of costing to death and was relatively successful in this. But you shouldn't let it get to you. I think that, as a result of the work of social scientists, Estonia's development will find a more in-depth analysis than merely excavating slogans. I noticed that when this report on human development was presented, several people, who have been away from Estonia for some time, made real piano conclusions. One of them was Neeme Raud, who said that he was beginning to feel that stories about our excellence in the rankings have started to tire the people of Estonia little by little and that this excellence in the rankings is actually being seen in their own lives. The previous speaker also admitted that the report stands out for some stagnation in Estonia's development. We must agree that the last 20 years have been good years for Estonia; average figures have improved. The averages have improved not only in Estonia, but also in other countries, but for us, these good averages are also the result of large gaps within Estonia. When you look inside your own country, it has to be said that year after year we are still talking about the same things, only in a sadder tone. We are talking about regional differences, we are talking about gender gaps and we are talking about a barrier between Estonians and foreigners. Let's talk and talk, but there'll be no change. So generally speaking, as long as we do not pay attention to these problems and do not act, we are wasting our human resources. I know that in this Chamber, the speaker has often suffered such a repulsive handnail that what we are complaining about is talking about good things. But if there is no focus on problems in the Riigikogu, many people will vote with their feet. I want to focus on the issues that may not have been mentioned so much in the Chamber. But first of all, it seems to me in Estonian society that if there is a gap, it will be filled quickly. This report on human development has a very strong economic role to play. It seems that after the development fund no longer comes into good quality thought papers, an analysis has been carried out that fills this gap. But now the troubles. There are many people in Estonia who say that they work full-time but earn less than they deserve. It seems to me that the people who look at their reward mean the money they have been paid, not what their salary number is before tax is deducted. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U90	Tough question! I think that this one line through has been Estonia-centred, giving a picture of Estonia's development. We have looked at Estonia's appearance in a global context, but we have also focused on issues within Estonia. However, I believe that the purpose of all those who make these reports has been to help Estonia to do better in the end with the knowledge or wisdom it has gained. I can't think of any other general idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U91	Dear Mati Heidmets, there is at least one more question for you. Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U92	Honourable waitress! This human development report does not talk much about migration. We know that the balance of migration in Estonia is significantly negative. It turned out from your report, as well as from the report, that many Estonians are unduly critical of the current state of the country and sometimes maybe unreasonably optimistic about what is coming. Can you tell us how goers and icers differ in this regard? Or maybe it's something you haven't studied.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U93	As far as I know, the attitudes and attitudes of the outgoing and returning contingent have not been studied, at least I do not know any such special research. But this is a really important topic that could arise in Estonia ♪ who intend to leave and who has come back and what their motives are. However, I am indebted to a more precise answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U94	Mr Heidmets, thank you very much for your presentation and answers and for the work you have done as editor-in-chief of the Human Development Report. No further questions. Mr Jüri Sepa, editor of the Riigikogu speech chair 'Estonian Human Development Report 2012/2013', please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U95	Dear Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. My task is to present today the economic part of the Human Development Report. Promise me I won't repeat it exactly what it says, but I'll give it a certain background. The last question here was exactly what I had actually chosen to answer, without knowing that such a question would come. I dare the university people not to start with figures, but with one fundamental model of human development and, more generally, the development of society, which has been proposed by the authors of the United Nations' major human development report, as well as in a number of human development reports. I like this picture, which I have'simplified' and 'edited', particularly because it highlights the causal link between the quality of human resources and economic development. The rough lines on this picture underline that there can be no economic development without the development of human assets, and this arrow must also go in the other direction: there can be no development of human assets without economic development. So this interrelationship, which should work as well as possible in both directions, is the basis for overall development. At least it's the main message here. At the same time, the picture also shows us that this relationship is not in any way like a law of nature, but can be very different in every society, in every country, and still varies from one direction to another. The way in which these effects work in general depends on what rules of play exist in society, which are the institutions that govern the functioning of this society. If we would now like to look empirically at this relationship between the two sides of human development, we can put the countries on a two-dimensional picture, as has been done here. On one side there is an index of human resources that runs along the horizontal axis, and that is then without profit, only education and health are taken into account. On the other hand, the income index is an indicator of economic prosperity. Based on this picture of 106 more advanced countries, not all countries in the world, we see two things. Firstly, we see that as a trend there is a link between these two indicators. In general, those countries where the quality of human resources is indeed higher are also wealthier, and vice versa. Here's the trend line. At the same time, when we look at the strength of this relationship, these two indicators only account for 40% of all fluctuations, i.e. less than half. Consequently, there are many other factors that shape this relationship. So there can't be any automatism here. The interesting picture is also the following, where we have riddled out the expected economic development income index based on the quality of human resources in one country or another. The blue line is the expected level, the red line shows the true prosperity in these countries. See, this thing is pretty zigzag. In broad terms, all countries are divided into two parts. Some are where economic prosperity is greater than that expected from the point of view of human resources, while in other countries people are poorer than the quality, health and education of human resources would be expected. It is probably not very difficult to see the key factors in this picture, either, which means that these two things do not coincide in some countries. Above all, you will see oil producers and otherwise rich countries rich in natural resources, where it is possible to be wealthy without the particular quality of human resources. Below, we will meet first and foremost, but of course not only, our old friends, countries that are characterised by this infamous socialist-communist experiment and which have partly not yet come out of it. But if we look at Estonia's position and, for example, the Czech Republic and Slovenia, we see that a certain legacy still exists, that we are still among those countries that are relatively poor in terms of their human resources. We have not been able to transform the quality of our human resources into wealth. It's not a big difference anymore, but it does exist. He is not big compared to Cuba, for example, where the situation is still drastic in this sense. Now we need to come closer to other factors, or we need to start explaining why anomalies arise between economic development and the quality of human resources at the level of specific indicators. Here is a table that has tried to identify the indicators that can explain to us how economic development will develop. Economic development is in the very middle here, as you can see, Estonia is in 47th place in the world, as has already been said. Before that, these indicators, which, I dare say, are broadly characteristic of the business environment that the Estonian state has created for its business. There are also better and worse places, starting with indicators of economic freedom, which give Estonia a very high assessment. The World Bank doing business indicator for business simplicity also puts us in the big league, 21st place. We can see that human resources are in the same direction, certainly a factor that would allow us to wait and hope for a higher level of income. But on the other side, there are, unfortunately, a number of factors that will not allow the potential that Mati Heidmets was talking about to be realized if there are no shifts. What are these indicators? These are indicators that are included in the World Economic Forum's competitiveness data under the heading Business Sophication. It can be translated differently, broadly speaking, I prefer the term 'business complexity'. You will see what is failing Estonia here, starting with the type of competitive advantage. What are these guys like? On one side there is a resource-based, cost-based advantage. On the other hand, a competitive advantage can be obtained through a unique product. All these things are valued in balls from one to seven. The width of the value chain. Will the Estonian economy be able to take advantage of all the possibilities for value creation or, which is the worst option, is the cheapest link, in the middle of the value chain, dealing only with production? At the same time, we know that the sources of wealth are not really in production, but either above, at the stage of ideas and design, or behind, at the stage of branding, marketing. Without them, it is not possible to generate revenue in production. Third indicator: can Estonian companies control international distribution channels? I can't. We're far away from where we want to be. Do Estonian companies form synthetic clusters that are a source of wealth? No, it doesn't. There is no such thing, at least not relatively, compared to other countries. The locations we're going to get from these indicators are over there in the 70s, far from what we talked about earlier. I'm not gonna talk about the size of the market here, that's what we're never gonna get past. The rest is actually a question of whether or not we can move forward on these issues. I also took such a summary picture, putting the average points of the indicators we had before. We can see that there are two things where Estonia is practically in the big league in terms of economics, the business environment and human resources. But there's another part of the mudality that concerns the complexity of business, the ability of companies to make a profit in the world, and then it's the 47th place of our wealth. If we compare ourselves with those countries that are wealthier than us, but in some ways perhaps like us, they are not superpowers, then we see once again that the complexity of business is exactly what is the brake for Estonia. In other countries, these lines may go slightly differently. Although it has to be said about the complexity of business, it is not just our problem, it is a general problem for transition countries. This problem may be less in Slovakia and the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic. But what really caught the eye was that basically all the countries of Eastern Europe are facing the problem of how to break through internationally. After all, this is essentially how to establish itself in international markets. I promise to sum up the previous three key messages. There is one thing that I stress because sometimes we talk about how we have developed the economy all along and the person has remained in the background. If you look at the numbers, it's actually the opposite, economic development is 47, human resources, health and education is 27. So our problem is that we are poor, we have not been able to develop the economy. The other thing is that we have created a favourable environment as a positive message. Now the real question really is whether to consider this real potential, which sooner or later will be realized, was here before we talked about it, or whether it's just on paper, and that difference will never be even. When we look around the world, we see some of these countries where this difference has really persisted. One such interesting country is New Zealand, whose business potential is also very high, but the level of income is low. It's been like this for a long time, and obviously there's got to be something objective thing, maybe then really its geographical distance, to prevent its potential from realizing. In the case of Estonia, however, it is clear from the foregoing that the question is still about the capacity of our business and there will be no significant shifts in economic development if the situation in the complexity of the business does not improve. The target is therefore determined, but this is a relatively simple finding, more complex than, of course, how to achieve it. That's where I'm gonna end up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U96	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U97	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Today, there have been comparisons of sports and it has been recalled that when Andres Friend came to be the head coach of Rakvere Tarva, he said that by then we would take the team to the medal. In fact, after four years there was silver. So here's the idea: do we have a lack of leadership or are we missing a deadline, doers or plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U98	Thank you very much, Mr Mart Nutt. Mr Kallas, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U99	The high level of dissatisfaction is largely due to the fact that we also charge the minimum wage. Our income tax-free minimum has been frozen for six years in a row. At the same time, our home expenses are increasing and so many people simply cannot cope with full-time wages. The analysis says that the poor face is primarily a woman's face. This is a problem for which solutions are allowed in this Chamber, but these promises have not come true. Another problem is the waste of human resources. Mati Heidmets rightly mentioned here that this is a particularly painful problem for us because of the specificities of a small country. The report also points out that we have too many young people who are limited to basic education or even less education. Those who have left education early are 10 to 11%. In Estonia, this means that people who have only basic education, if any, can have around 10,000 and only 6% of them are employed in the labour market. This means that the wasted human resources reach thousands of people. What can be done with these young people? In time, when the Centre Party was in government, a project of school homes was started so that children who did not attend school could still get there. Young people who were unable to obtain basic education were helped. Vocational schools set up courses where they could study without basic education. And there was a very simple thing about school food. There's nothing to do when school food came to middle school, boys and girls who hadn't shown up for a long time showed up at school. This measure gave them reason to return to the school bench. A quick reference to the fact that in spring the Riigikogu Working Papers held a longer discussion on the human development report. There, Anu Toots mentioned that repelling handnails often occur also in the case of developments in Estonia, that we do not want a welfare state, as is the case in Europe, and that Greece or another country in distress in southern Europe is a bad example. However, the welfare model should be what we are striving for, which could be a Nordic model. The Human Development Report shows that Estonians are optimistic about the future. We have young students with outstanding results, but we are currently well below the European Union average in terms of life expectancy and healthy life years. We also have poor labour productivity, wealth and wage levels, and we are not among the European averages in terms of tolerance and satisfaction in life. All these figures would be better if we were a little bit more Nordic-minded in policy-making here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U100	Madam Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would also like to thank the authors of the Human Development Report on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. This has been an extremely important work so far, it is certainly necessary to continue, and I hope that this work will continue. In the light of this Human Development Report, there is not much to complain about. However, as the report's authors have pointed out, laurels cannot rest. Understandably, it is most appropriate and easier to compare us with countries that had a similar starting point just over 20 years ago. However, as Mr Heidmets stated in his presentation, we cannot become encased in this framework, but must inevitably look at ourselves in the face of the whole world. True, the comparison with our fellow fates is most pleasant, among which we stand out with comparatively good indicators, and against this background we have been successful. But our goal cannot be success in post-Soviet weight category. We still have countries with fewer problems ahead of us, while the quality of life is higher. It is up to you to follow the example from there, but at the same time every development model is original, copying may not produce a good result at all. From time to time, it is whining that this is the kind of Estonia we wanted. Precisely, I'm gonna say that we basically wanted to. Estonia is a democratic state, we are at the top of the world in terms of freedom of expression, we have a relatively stable political system and a fairly well functioning economy. Human optimism about the future is also higher than average. The fact that we have not caught Finland or Sweden from the standard of living cannot be considered a failure; it would not have been possible during this period and under our circumstances. Looking back, it can be said that painful and unpopular decisions, such as rapid privatisation, the holding of a strong kroon, in some respects at any price, the budget balance under the conditions of poverty and some negative budgets have paid off and created a solid foundation for the Estonian state. We could have been worse. It would have been more convenient and possibly more popular to do nothing, to leave the unrented business in the hands of the state, to kill the high-tax initiative, to have the kroon written one zero on the way to inflation every three or five years. We would have been able to borrow ourselves to pay higher social benefits and leave to future generations, figuratively speaking, burned land. The early 1990s would have been less painful for us, but today we would have been very painful. We could have had a president with broad powers who might now be enjoying lifelong power and his son preparing to take up his father's throne. We could have had a one-party system where guarantees and corruption are the only possible way to deal with it, we would be among the countries belonging to the 'non-free' category, and the Party's monopolised media would inject into our pink dream. These examples are not taken from the air, but from the practice of some of our destiny mates in the country. Fortunately, there are only a few municipalities in Estonia. I do not give these examples in order to portray Estonia's situation as ideal. It's not like that. We've made mistakes, haven't we? Obviously, the country does not have a lot of levers to prevent emigration, hopefully temporary. The country could have been more sustainable during the economic boom and thereby alleviated the economic crisis. It is important, however, that we keep values and the foundations of the Estonian state. If they start fouling, we'll be in danger of falling from above. If we can keep the foundation of the country strong, but deliver it flexibly, then we can expect a relatively nice future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U101	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. Jaanus Tamkivi, colleague of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U102	Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia's development can and should be proud of. This is not a slogan for the Reform Party's electoral campaign here, but is what the authors of the Human Development Report say. The Human Development Report proves that Estonia has done well. That's what our president says. The chairman of our party said even more beautifully in the spring about this report on human development and the development path of Estonia in the recent past, especially for the ears of people with a right-wing view of the weather. All these thoughts can be found on the Internet, if you are interested in it. Yeah, it's like everything's fine, but I wish it was even better, and dissatisfaction eats the soul. The proverb from Kreissa, which sometimes cuts into the heart when others do well, or Märt Avandi, who on New Year's Eve preached on a TV screen on a joke show, how difficult it is to be an Estonian. I am also borrowing the President's thoughts here: 'Estonia is at an average or better than average level in most areas of life, including democracy, freedom, state development, trust in institutions, innovation and corruption in the whole of the European Union. " The President goes on to say that in matters that depend on the responsibility and choices of a person's own health and life expectancy, income and productivity at work, tolerance, equality between women and men, we still have a lot of work to do. I believe that the Human Development Report must remind us of one thing: the responsibility for the future of the country is not a matter for politicians and public officials alone; it must be the daily care of every person. The key question for Estonia's future development is whether we are all ready to continue our efforts together, even though we would like to get there and enjoy ourselves. Maybe I'll break somebody's illusion, but a time when, like the people of Kungla, we can have fun on the lawn every day is probably never gonna happen. Estonia has no chance of being excluded from globalisation and the competition it brings about. And every Estonian must probably be better than the people in those countries where there are dozens and hundreds of millions of people. We set the goal of becoming one of the five richest European countries. Then the economic crisis came, and now, compared to the standard of living, we see quite a number of the countries that have borrowed themselves moving against us, back to back. That is why I would not overstate the concern that good people are leaving Estonia. Maybe we really need to get ready for the question of whether we are ready for a situation where very many people want to come to Estonia. If we continue to do as well, and that is what we hope, as the Human Development Report describes, maybe this time will be closer than it seems to us. Our social protection budget has improved, work and family life are more balanced in many countries, community ties are strong and the overall level of education is high, says Anu Toots, one of the authors of the Human Development Report. The Reform Party sees the survival of the people as the most important goal in Estonia's survival and development. More babies have to be born, that's how it all starts. Yes, we have made parental benefit, parental pension, launched a need-based reform of family benefits. We also want to care about people whose life's work has already been done and to make pension increases one of the priorities. These things, of course, have to go on. But it takes money and, of course, it comes not by borrowing, but by working. Raising the wealth of the people is one of our great goals. This is through economic and business freedom, productivity growth and education, not through a greater redistribution of values. Income inequality is at an average level in Estonia compared to other European countries and decreases, says the Human Development Report. Growing wealth has its own formulas. It is no longer enough for us to lay down a tree in the forest, transport it to the harbor, and ship across the sea. Wood must become plywood, plywood taboo, and taboo must be better than taboos made in the world so far. Only then will they buy it. The book we are discussing here today notes that it is very important to grow wealth, what kind of work people do, how complex the products and services that are produced and at what price they can be sold. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U103	Please, two more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U104	It is no longer enough for us to subcontract mobile phones, but we can be proud that the mobile app created in Estonia is now used to park cars on several continents. I thank the authors of the Human Development Report for the reflection they have put before us in their work. I call on all the people of Estonia to work towards the further development of our common country. Estonia has been remarkably good at taking down the outside limiters, and now it is also necessary to cope with the internal ones in the Human Development Report. I agree with Mati Heidmets, who, as the author of the report, notes that the successful arrival of Estonia in each Estonian room and soul could be an important challenge for our next development period. Good luck to us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U105	Thank you very much, Mr Tamkivi. Mr Sven Mikser, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U106	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Socialists, I would also like to thank the authors of the Human Development Report for their hard work, their valuable thoughts and the deep analysis contained in this document. Our Prime Minister, as has been said, has acknowledged that the Human Development Report is a praise song for Estonia, Estonia's politics and the Estonian Government. Being a passionate Estonian patriot, of course, I cannot agree with this assessment in any way. Our President has stated that the Human Development Report gives rise to Estonia's success in areas where the state can make a difference and failure in areas where people are responsible themselves. I am also very critical of this assessment, and I would rather agree with Professor Heidmets. I believe that the areas where we are more advanced are not those where the state cannot do anything, but rather those where the state has decided not to do anything, or not to do what it could and should have done. At the beginning of his presentation, Professor Heidmets said that Estonia is the most beautiful thing to look at from a distance, and that is probably true. But I must say that this paradox of external praise is not Estonia's unique feature. Let two examples illustrate this. Firstly, we know that Russian citizens living outside Russia, including Estonia, support Russia's ruling parties and its leader much more than the Russians living in Russia. The explanation is that outsiders are not affected by the practical difficulties and problems of everyday life of ordinary people, at least not so much. Secondly, we remember how, in 1978, the President of the United States praised Iran as an island of stability in the Middle East, even though on the inside, the country was already quite rotten and immediately plunged into a revolution. Without wanting to compare Estonia with Iran, there is also an explanation for this: outsiders often have their own interests, which may not coincide with those inside. For the US, the role of the Iranian Government was not to solve the everyday concerns of the Iranian people, but to offer a counterweight to the Arab Coalition against Israel. One important point in the Human Development Report is that success is never absolute but still relative, both in time and in space. Certainly many of us remember the fourth-class history textbook of Soviet times, where the number of cereal processors was compared in the 1930s in the Republic of Estonia and in the 1980s in kolkhoz-Estonia. This prima facie absurd manipulation was intended to conceal the fact that Estonian agriculture was far more modern and competitive than Soviet agriculture in its own time in the 1930s. Prime Minister Ansip's famous and much-spoken theories of the richest five states also say that we are not striving for success in absolute terms as much as in comparison with our own world corner countries. And in this plan, I believe, we should certainly critically analyse today why, for example, the GDP calculated on the basis of Lithuania's purchasing parity, per capita, has missed Estonia. We need to analyse this not to try to imitate Lithuanian or Lithuanian policies, but to understand where our own policies are entangled behind stumps. We've talked a lot about jumping from the front leagues to the big leagues and asking how to achieve this. The Human Development Report says this: "If it turns out that the possibilities for continuing the effects of previous factors of success have been overestimated and, at the same time, new positive developments (so-called trends) really do not occur, the end result may not be particularly enviable. ' Using sports metaphor leagues that have already sounded many times here, you can say this: If the club stays in the top league for a long time, the best players will still go to the big leagues. But they go there one by one, joining some big league club that's willing to pay them over. This is the foot vote we are talking about, looking at our sad balance of migration. It goes without saying that the drop-off of top players will make the chances of getting into the top leagues even worse. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U107	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U108	A summary of the report's quality of life chapter says that although austerity has become normal in Estonia, the distribution of income in Estonia is judged too unequal by the elite of our opinion leaders. It also says that it is unclear how Estonia's transfer to a postmodern sustainable era should take place in such a way as to bring about an all-encompassing increase in quality of life. This is answered by the overwhelming view of opinion leaders that the role of the state must change, and it must become wider than simply the role of the founder of the environment. As an enabler of development, the state needs a broader view than a holder of a certain type of tax environment or builder of primary infrastructure. In any case, an increase or increase in the role of the state will mean a change in political direction and, in any case, a change in prevailing thinking. This means a change in specific policies, such as the much-spoken tax policy, which must inevitably change towards greater progressivity. After all, we all know that the progressive nature of the tax system is not just personal income tax. One of the measurable results of such a change could be the increasing trust of people in a juster state and its institutions. The perception that this country needs its own people and that it is willing to contribute to them even if these people may not be doing well at the moment. The view expressed in the report that past success factors may have slipped over time must be reflected in an open-minded debate on how to change these policies based on the requirements of changed times rather than clinging to existing policies. One example could be the tax exemption of the company's reinvested profits in its current form, which was supposed to facilitate and probably to some extent even managed to encourage investments in Estonian companies, but now that we are talking about innovative start-ups as a future trend, we must inevitably admit that the corporate tax exemption in this form creates a clear competitive advantage for long-term profitable companies in the comfort zone over visionary start-ups that have not yet come to profit. On both this and many other issues, we need open, non-dog-cling discussion, the understanding that the world is changing and that what was a accelerator 10 or 20 years ago may now have become a brake. I wish us all an open mind for these debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U109	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U110	Thank you very much, Mr Kõiv. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their presentations and answers to questions. Our hearing is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 12.32 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U111	Thank you very much. Please, my colleague Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U112	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U113	They are ignored, and their welfare is not inherited by neighbors or acquaintances. These people need a warm word and human support. Pro-social behaviour, or volunteering, which contributes to the well-being of other people by helping and sharing, supporting them, is important. Interestingly, when we are talking about supporting those in need, it is mainly about money. At the same time, the OECD report, to which the Human Development Report also refers, states that in the liberal Anglo-American countries, pro-social activity can be seen higher than others, so that people feel more responsible for helping other people and do not rely so much on the state. This brings us back to the values that people consider important in our society. Although they change in time, Anton Hansen Tammsaare's 'True and Law' was very well hit by the Estonian people's identity, and the confrontation between Andres and Pear instead of good neighbourly relations could even be funny to an observer if it had not made their lives so much more difficult. Even now, when I meet entrepreneurs, especially beginners, I often see the fear that cooperation with other entrepreneurs means that ideas are being stolen. However, I believe that the real examples that feed this fear cannot be too much in a society the size of Estonia. Nobel Prize winner James Heckman has said that the biggest misconception that sits deep in folk culture is that one victory is the loss of another. Changing this understanding would add much to our society and help us to the next level in terms of economic and human subjective well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U114	Thank you very much, Mr Kallas. My colleague Tõnis Kõiv of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U115	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen and guests! Undoubtedly, Estonia's progress so far has been remarkable, and it has not taken place in itself, but as a result of the determined work of many and many people. In order to move from the current level to the next level, some things simply need to be done differently. The major transitional reforms have been carried out and now one big thing can be moved forward not by doing another way, but by doing very many small things in a different way. Allow me to follow up on the three fragments of this mosaic, which I think characterises Estonia's next success story, and which I think is important. With reference to the writing of the Head of the Estonian Employers' Confederation, I would argue that the so-called "antage mentality" is still widespread among both employers and employees. May I be given a high-quality, well-educated, decent work habits, ambitious, learnable, but not over-paid, instead contributing to the development, upbringing, linking up with the development of the company, etc. It is not much better to look at the situation from the worker's side. There is also a lot of such an offer-opportunity there, as well as high pay and security, rewards and what else, to grow, to become a new added value-maker at work, doing his job meaningfully and well, learning new skills, developing himself and thus the company. Perhaps the first piece of the future success story in the mosaic would be an increase in the quality of employers and employees. The next slice of noise around us. In February 2011, the Riigikogu passed the Law Enforcement Act, which introduced a fundamental principle of civil society into Estonian law for the first time: every person has the right to exercise his or her rights until he or she prevents another person from exercising his or her rights. More simply, it sounds like: Live yourself and let others live! In my opinion, it is very important to pay attention to reducing disturbing noise in the living environment, so that both traffic flows and construction activities, both production and life activities, are based as little as possible on the principle of disturbing others. Some vital examples. This week we read in the media about the success story of the police where the apartment door was broken down in the apartment building to silence the music that disrupted the peace of our neighbors at noon. At the same time, we remember a different example, where the residents who wanted to sleep forced a massive fire alarm fire all night, not really, was a false alarm at the cost of a silent offence, just disrupted the alarms. We have heard a lot of examples where amusement activities do not allow people to sleep in order to rest for a new day's work. How, then, can this tired person create new and great value while working the next day? In many cases, people are unaware of the effects of disturbing noise. At the point of denying the problem, it is simply said that neither noise nor noise bother, they are just just a little stressed. But noise is causing stress, which in turn is causing cardiovascular disease, and these are serious diseases and their consequences are even more serious. More broadly, this problem can be summed up in a single word, namely carelessness. I would argue that greater care and consideration for others are also one of the key factors why people go to work across the Gulf of Finland. If you may not be able to appreciate it at first, the difference will be very obvious when you return to Estonia after a while. On one side of the Gulf of Finland there is care, on the other there is less. The third piece I point to is the impact of various productions on the living environment, whether it is a metal workshop or the timber industry, or even a vital service such as waste water treatment. All these activities have an impact on the environment. Production has an impact on the environment, which cannot be described differently from environmental degradation. People use even more simple words - noise, smell, bad smell. Of course, jobs are important, and it is also very important to clean up waste water, but it is still necessary to make every day an effort to ensure that the effects of production do not extend beyond the boundaries of the property, so that the environmental disturbance is kept to a minimum and people living nearby are disturbed as little as possible. Can I have a few more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U116	Please, two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U117	Of course, it requires a change of attitude as a matter of priority, the understanding that earning money at the expense of other people's health is not favorable or right. On the other hand, of course, this also requires changes in laws and, of course, investment in better technology, the use of which disturbs less the living environment and ultimately improves the life and quality of work for both the people around and those working in specific companies. By putting together the three pieces mentioned above, I would like to put the following major challenge to Estonian society: to develop into a society that cares about the person, where the employer respects his employees, where workers take careful care of their work and their own development, where the neighbor respects the neighbor, where the benefits are not earned at the expense of the health of other people, etc. This list could continue for a long time, but in general we would like to say that we want a society where we meet caring at every moment and every corner of the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-17_U118	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I will focus on a very narrow area of this report on human development. If I had to title my report, I would title it this way: 'The values we bear contribute to poverty'. In fact, if we cannot change our values, we will never break through the glass ceiling that separates us from the next level, or the major league. According to the study of world values, Estonia is now a member of the former Communist countries and has not changed its position significantly in the last 20 years. We are still inclined towards a survival-emphasising society where people rather do not trust others, are not satisfied with their lives and do not tolerate other people at their side. But why is that? Will the changes in values be hindered by our economic situation or by the values that hinder us from improving our economic well-being? Theoretical literature suggests that post-communist countries do not fulfil the historical preconditions for the creation of a welfare state. Socio-economic development increases people's material security, which in turn reduces the impact of material constraints on people's choices and decisions, but socio-economic development does not change people's values overnight. Studies show that the Estonian population has little confidence in other people, low tolerance, low subjective well-being, austere political activity, low environmental awareness and low initiative capacity, so we belong to post-communist countries. However, if you look at the positive side, it is worth mentioning that according to the Human Development Report, the overall confidence rate of the Estonian population has gradually increased. According to the 2011 study, 40% of respondents thought that most people could be trusted, while in 2008 this figure was 33% and 1999 only 24%. Despite the significant increase in confidence in the last decade, the majority of the Estonian population, i.e. 60%, still thinks that there is a need to be very careful when dealing with people. If you look at the second part of the Human Development Report, which concerns our economic environment, this suggests that Estonia has a major development potential based on the global index, the strength of which is both technological readiness and macroeconomic. The Human Development Report points to concern that we have lost our technological advantage, but even more critical is the assessment of the substance of the business, which is in decline. In particular, the low level of development of Estonian business networks and clusters has been observed, leading to a modest role in the value chain. Coming back to values, the fact that people don't trust each other also makes cooperation more difficult, which directly hinders the development of the economy, which, in turn, hinders the growth of people's subjective well-being and livelihood. The Human Development Report indicates that compared to the wealthy small countries in Europe, there are differences not only in material well-being but also in people's active citizenship, participation in society, trust and willingness to assist, as well as in tolerance to minorities. It all forms social capital, i.e. those qualities, networks, norms and trust in life, which enables participants to work effectively together to achieve common goals. Studies have confirmed that the lack of social capital goes hand in hand with economic misery. Social capital can be seen as an important resource for economic and social well-being, which is why increasing it is as important for people's well-being as increasing economic prosperity. During the summer, I participated in the debate at the opinion festival 'How expensive is poverty? ', where Kärt Mere, the head of the Association for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, said that not so much giving money to people who are in need helps, but the main problem is social exclusion, i.e. these people do not feel part of society. I'm asking for more time!
