ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Minister of Culture. We will begin the Monday session of the 10th working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. First of all, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates six draft laws and submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and related amendments to other laws. Secondly, the draft law amending the family law and related amendments to other laws. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Commercial Code and related amendments to other laws. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above three draft laws in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Identity Documents Act, the State Fees Act and the State Border Act. Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act. Sixth, the draft law on maritime labour. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas when dealing with these two draft laws. Seventhly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Cultural Policy Fundamentals until 2020' was approved. In processing the draft decision in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U3	Thank you. Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U4	Madam President, thank you very much. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I am pleased to hand over the draft law, which, if it were to enter into force as a law, would remain at the current level of 21% from 2015, and the resources released from it, which are about EUR 75 million, could be used to increase family allowances. A 1% reduction in the income tax rate wins EUR 1 per month for the recipient of the minimum wage, EUR 6 for the teacher and EUR 48 for the Prime Minister. At the same time, a family with two children would benefit from an increase in child benefit of EUR 48 per first and second child of the family of EUR 57 per month. This represents an additional 700 euros per year for the family budget. Today, the proportion of women of childbearing age is still very high in Estonia, as there are women born in 1970 and 1980, but unfortunately we still have few children per woman. It's not too late. Studies show that the birth rate in Estonia would be affected if the benefits for families were higher and there were also more kindergarten places. By implementing our bill as a law and using these free funds for families, it would be possible to support the birth rate and also to strengthen the family's confidence before tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U5	Thank you. Please, my colleague, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U6	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will report an inquiry to Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. The inquiry concerns the work of the Enterprise Estonia. This is a question of the EAS marketing campaign in Russia, which has recently produced a wide range of opinions. That is why I would like to ask a few questions. What is the EAS budget for 2013 and 2014 and how much is advertising expenditure? What is the assessment of advertisements that have so far introduced Estonia abroad? Has the Minister seen these specific ads, and what is his personal opinion about them? Has this problem been discussed in the political party and the EAS? EAS has held a Council meeting on this subject. Has the Minister been given any feedback? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U7	Thank you. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to report to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. The inquiry concerns the reform of the ambulance. The Minister himself has said that this reform will lead to improvements in quality and service, but we are seeing a great deal of confusion and misunderstanding here, and we think that this is another cut. While more ambulances are being created, only 15 brigades have been crewed with doctors, all the rest are made up of nurses. Doctors themselves say that even though nurses do well in their work, they do not want to take up the duties of doctors. We also know that doctors are paid more for their hours, and nurses are paid half as much. We're interested in how big the savings are here. We know that a lot of doctors have been made redundant. Why are they not put into work in an emergency department that is known to have very long queues? We have other questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U9	Thank you. Please, Mr Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I am handing over the draft Act amending § 32 of the State Budget Act. We want to provide the Ministry of Finance with the possibility of settling payments relating to funded pensions and securities by the Central Register of Estonian Securities through the Treasury, if necessary. In particular, the pending new draft state budget law provides for such an option. However, it may take longer to process the draft state budget law than the deadline for payments in the central register. This deadline is February 1, 2014. By this time the central register holder of Estonian securities will be obliged to move his settlements from Eesti Pank. In order not to put under pressure the procedure of base law, the Committee on Monetary Affairs is proposing such an amendment. We hope to deal with this draft relatively quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U11	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted nine draft laws and two inquiries. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to process them within three working days. If inquiries comply with this law, I shall forward them immediately to the addressees. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. Firstly, the Estonian Centre Party Group. A draft of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted on 20 November, the commission of which is the Social Affairs Committee. Secondly, the Social Democratic Party Group. a Proposal for a Decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted on 20 November, the commission of which is the Committee on Rural Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. The following drafts were submitted to the Committee on European Union Affairs on 21 and 28 November 2004: Firstly, the package of draft laws on psychoactive substances. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Social Affairs Committee and the Legal Affairs Committee to give an opinion on the drafts included in the package. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 5 December at 4 p.m. Secondly, a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council aimed at limiting the scope of the implementation of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) with regard to the change in the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions from aviation. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on the Environment and the Economic Commission to give an opinion on the drafts forming part of the package. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 12 December at 4 p.m. On 21 November the members of the Riigikogu formed a parliamentary group of Estonian-Myanmar and support group of mining companies (feared by the heavy word!). Minister of Culture Rein Lang has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's Riigikogu session. The Board of the Riigikogu has agreed to this. On the basis of Article 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I have added the Minister of Culture Rein Lang to the agenda of today's Riigikogu meeting with a political statement. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now another amendment to the agenda. The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu has proposed to exclude the Riigikogu from the agenda of the tenth working week of the Riigikogu the sixth item on the agenda of the meeting on Tuesday, 3 December, the first reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Along with these two improvements, I will put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U12	Let us go to the first item on today's agenda. Minister of Culture Rein Lang will make a political statement. First of all, I will show you how this item is being dealt with. The political statement lasts up to 30 minutes. No questions are asked; pursuant to § 155 (4) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, the Management Board and the Minister of the Riigikogu agreed so. Subsequent negotiations. Only the representatives of the political groups will be given the floor in the negotiations. Now I'm asking the Minister of Culture, Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I use the right granted to me by the Riigikogu's law of house and rules of procedure to make a political statement before you. At 2.20 p.m. today, I handed over a written statement to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip requesting the resignation of the Minister of Culture. I am not resigning because I find myself wrong in my job on fundamental issues. Mistakes have occurred, of course, for the makers. However, I am convinced that the steps taken in the Ministry of Culture over two years in the reorganisation of the Ministry itself as well as the changes I have initiated in the administration of the Ministry of Culture have been correct, made in good faith and carried out in accordance with the commitment made in the Preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia to ensure the preservation of Estonian nation and culture throughout the ages. Time will be discussed! I also have no reason to resign for what happened in the cultural paper Sirp. However, I think it appropriate to apologize once again to those who were personally affected by this saga. In the week before last, the Social Democratic Party, which was in opposition with the government, triggered political pressure against the Minister of Government. The opposition party did its job, and there's nothing deplorable or strange about it. The Estonian Constitution establishes representative democracy based on free elections. Our constitutional system foresees that, cyclically, there are people in power representing certain views and trends, and there are people in opposition who represent opposing views and trends. The great advantage of the parliamentary regime is that the opposition can freely and without anyone's intervention criticize power and undermine it in a good way at the expense of the taxpayer, in a warm room in the Riigikogu, in front of everyone. There is no substantive need in Estonia to establish underground political groups to improve society, or to print newspapers on smoke paper abroad and distribute them in a two-bed suitcase. There is nothing strange or deplorable about the fact that in society people are concentrated in organisations to defend their interests and rights, and these organisations support either the policy of those in power or the criticism of the opposition. Historically, trade unions have been supporters of political parties and politicians representing socialist views, and they will probably remain that way for a while. Let us remember that they were only recently called a School of Communism. Estonia's current creative associations have essentially become trade unions. Since their will to paraphrase the poetry has been a kingdom of heaven and to gain a state border in view of Estonia's economic possibilities and common sense, their frustration and desire to co-operate with the opposition party in order to change power is understandable and understandable, as are all-country-proletarians-unite-style support for their trade union brothers. There is no point in overemphasising all this, and that is not why I decided to resign. In my opinion, the insurmountable problem is my opportunity, in fact, to be unable to participate as a minister in the communication field of our society. I have come into a situation described in the Ukrainian humor magazine by mythical linguist Koškin, who, with playful ease, finds in every sentence you say letters that form a three-letter dirty word. No matter what I say or don't say, it's about to find a koshkin analysis. It's kind of a game or a race for someone who can say faster and worse. For some reason, I am reminded of the meetings held in working collectives in the days of the Soviet Union, where the Academician Sakharov was resolutely condemned, and which the media at that time reflected to infinity. On this situation, too, the same Ukrainian humor magazine had its own joke: 'Deciding decisively to condemn the reactionary coup in Chile, the third-order trailer at the Ivanov meeting said resolutely: 'I do not know what is Pinochet and who is Chile, but until they are released, I will not come to work. '' It is not possible for a member of the government to move on if every action you do is stigmatised and every idea of you is put to shame. I'm not alone in this situation. Hundreds of Estonian people who have something to say to society refuse to speak in public because they do not want to be in a situation where the large numbers of anonymous net commentators, together with trailer Ivanov, strongly condemn someone they do not know or something they have never heard of. It is not what happened in Sirb that gives us a silent era, but the way it was reflected in the public. I don't blame the press. Just like the Creative Unions, classical press publications are now losing their position of substance. The exchange of discussion, debate and news is increasingly being passed on to web portals, blogs and listists. This is due to technological progress. All of this creates new opportunities for both good and bad boys. It seems to me, however, that in Estonia today, it is the marketing winner who can come up with a lie that is so big that it can become credible for a moment, and which will be distributed at least 24 hours before being overturned. Within this 24 hour, the lie will begin to live its other lives even after its source has been destroyed. That's why it's rational to give birth at the start of the weekend. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, I had the opportunity to experience on several occasions that some false statement arose in the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs usually on Friday, just before the end of the working day. This ensured a whole weekend of debate in Estonia about both the wrong self and the wrong answer. I would like to give an example that is very important to me. When Tom Stoppard, a world-famous playwright, visited Estonia in spring, journalist Kaarel Kressa was able to put words in his mouth in the Estonian Päevaleht, as if I, Rein Lang, had told Tom Stoppard that culture had to pay for itself. I never said anything like that to anyone! That's not what Tom Stoppard said either. The journalist later explained that he had misunderstood Stoppard because he spoke English. On 7 June, the editorial apology and proof was published in the print version of Eesti Päevaleht that Stoppard did not make such a statement and Lang did not agree with this view. To this day, however, it is an article that assigns to me an anti-cultural position, unrepaired and flawed, in the online archive of the Estonian Päevaleht without any correction. This article is still available without correction on the homepages of Tallinn City Theatre and the Office of the President of the Republic and linked to dozens of other websites. It is enough to google a little and then it becomes clear from dozens of records that Rein Lang, the Minister of Culture of the Republic of Estonia, is of the opinion that culture must pay itself off. On public broadcasting radio, a person who thinks he is a journalist speaks in a specific way about Kristen Michal and Rain Rosimannus putting newspaper editors in place like the Putinian Russia. All parties are rejecting it, but the myth that has been able to live in full force all weekend is still booming, and it is great. Which one is it believed to be Kaarel Tarandi, who assures me that Sirp has not received any money during my ministry, and there is no interest in it in the ministry, or me, who, with concrete facts, proves that interest is well known? The same Tarand has actually given the Minister his understanding in writing, which is why and how much additional resources would be needed, which Sirp has received. The person with the facts is distrusted and the liar receives a high-paid job at the Estonian National Museum, and he receives it without a contest. Estonian logic! Winston Churchill once said that the lie is already halfway around the world before the truth of the pants gets on. In the digital age, a lie has reached two laps of the earth before the truth can even grasp its pants. However, this raises a much broader question. Now it is not enough that the publication, which is lost, settles its mistakes like a man of honor in his own publication. Lies reproduce momentarily and reach those who do not even read, watch, or listen to the specific source of the lie. The wrong source could be anyone or anything. The media source is protected by law, but there are rules that are not enshrined in the law and that have to be critical of the sources, both for public sources quoted and for whistleblowers. By the way, as far as I am concerned, a good journalistic source, who has not been used very little, is currently safely imprisoned in Estonia, convicted of treason. Many countries are discussing how to protect individuals' right to honor and dignity in a digital society speeding up the speed of light. I think it is high time we too started these discussions. However, I urge the Socialists to think warmly about whether the organisation of information operations may not one day turn against you. The Centre Party already knows that. Most of you will certainly remember the grand scheme of a former Russian afester, according to which the press should become a collective organiser of a new society. Personally, it seems to me that this teaching was so strongly admitted to us during the occupation that until now its implementation has not been properly maintained; this teaching lives on in many social sciences. Then why has it happened? My best understanding is that the problem is the weakening of classical journalism and the rapid strengthening of public relations as a new industry. The fact that the University of Tartu teaches journalism and public relations at the same institute speaks for itself. Classic printing and broadcasting are in a rather difficult economic situation, not just in Estonia. Developments in technology and also failed business models have weakened the economic situation of newspapers and broadcasting stations in Estonia. In the media, unlike in the nineties of the last century, there isn't enough money going on to hire top-level players, but the money is moving around. If ten more years ago, PRs had to play the press by the ethical rules adopted over decades, then now the rules are set by the PRs. It would be naive to believe that political parties and groups, as well as a number of government agencies, do not use the services of PR. It must be borne in mind that services do not always have to be paid in money, can also be paid with influence. The PR companies themselves don't hide their strength. In the case of all the recent crises that have shaken public power, they have vocally announced through the press that it was precisely their lack of employment that, if not the crisis itself, at least the main cause of this escalation. They're right. They currently have a significant role to play in shaping public opinion in Estonia. I, too, as a minister, have been repeatedly proposed to sign a contract with a public relations company to offer the Ministry of Culture a so-called press roof. I didn't think it was right. The weakness of the press is certainly not in the interests of society. In the interests of society, over the centuries the transmission of the western Christian value system to the new technological platforms would have been fixed, rather than demolishing this value system with the arguments of its opponents, as if technology itself created a new value system suitable for us. It would be naive to think that social communication through the media is not in the sight of someone else's eye. After World War II, a publishing house was operating in Finland, which released Kansan Uutise, the voice of the left-wing Social Democratic Party. Economically, its issue was loss-making, but the end came to an end because the publishing works received the necessary paper from the Soviet Karelian paper mill. Of course, it has nothing in common with the current situation, where the issue of a daily newspaper with severe economic losses depends primarily on the printing orders received from the printing works of its owner, Russia. But there's something to think about. We, the legislators and the government, need to look in the mirror and ask ourselves whether we have done everything in our power to develop social communication and free journalism based on ethics and morality in Estonia. We have also fallen into a marketing trap, where the lack of ideas is being compensated by public relations tricks up to manipulation. One mantra of the Social Democrats, which has been proclaimed over and over again, is that matters in society must be decided by experts, not politicians. Of course, they believe that experts are primarily those who share their view of the world. It is particularly embellished in cultural policy. I quote Rein Rauda, who has written in the newspaper Müüriheleht as follows: 'In other words, there is an inner circle of knowledge in the evaluation of cultural phenomena, which can distinguish between new and interesting new things that are growing on top of everything, and a second circle of cultural interest, which is not only composed of representatives of other creative fields, but is actually much broader and independent of life. It is, however, a group that depends more on habit and considers the already settled and thus safer level of excellence to be important. And there are also the third and fourth circles behind him, such as those whose cultural needs include good comedy, a painting suitable for interior design and something readable on a summer patch. And there is no doubt that this is the way to live your life with dignity... Only that these people do not necessarily need to have a say in shaping the cultural environment. ' May I kindly ask from this chair of Parliament who is part of this first circle of important cultural matters and how to get into this circle. Is there a timetold somewhere who's always right and whose tips are people running things by? Who's Ayatollah? Hando Runnel has recently said that we are as defenseless today as we were in 1939. That's a pretty harsh way of saying it. I'm not that pessimistic, though. I know how many young people in Estonia today are creating a new culture in Estonia, a new Estonian culture, including a new left-wing political culture. There are, by the way, several times as many as the members of the creative alliances. They're free people who don't have to like or get in front of anyone to justify themselves. They are world citizens who debate things in a new way, being Estonian patriots themselves. New cultural groups have also emerged, both on the left and on the right. This is not to be seen as a conflict between generations, because with young people, many aggressors and women, whose understanding of freedom is based not on Karl Marx, but on the thoughts of Slavoj Žigek, for example. They also have growing political support in Estonia, let Jaak Allik fill up all the following Sirb numbers. That is what the beauty and pain of our history is all about. These are the motives that forced me to apply to the Prime Minister for resignation. As a free Member, who is more protected by the Estonian Constitution than by a member of the government, I probably have many more opportunities to make my voice heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U14	Thank you very much, Minister of Culture. [[Let's hear it.]] We have agreed that no questions will be asked to you. But do the delegates of the political groups want to negotiate? Interesting, but they don't want it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U15	Since we do not have any questions on the agenda today, please register for an appearance in a free microphone after the hammer hit! Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U16	Ladies and gentlemen, I just arrived from south-eastern Estonia, from my constituency. What do you think people are talking about? Yes, of course, my low salary and my poor standard of living. They're mainly talking about money. This is also because last week several new aspects were added to the monetary issue: currency and deposits. The people are cursing more Swedish banks than Prime Minister Ansip. I mean, in the last few weeks, there were a bunch of horrible money stories at the same time. Firstly, there was talk of the loss of cash, then of the announcement that more money would be asked for withdrawal from Swedbank and SEB, then of the horror story about taxation of deposits and finally the sensational proposal of the IMF, which is still part of conspiracy theories, to reduce all deposits of citizens of the European Union by 10%. You say they're rumors, but I remind you that most of these rumours have soon proved true. The German newspaper Deutsche Wirtschafts Nachrichten wrote that the International Monetary Fund (IMF) is planning, in cooperation with the European Union, to introduce a compulsory payment of 10% for all bank deposits of European Union citizens. It's the same thing that was done in Cyprus. It's done to save big banks. The same news came out of Forbes, a quality magazine. If this news is perhaps part of a more distant future, then the issue of cash withdrawal and payment taxation is the reality of the near future. I ask, ladies and gentlemen, how long will we continue to fatten Swedish banks on the poor wallet of Estonians? Not only are these banks moving out of us the profits earned by Estonians in 2012, the net profit of foreign banks was more than 350 million euros, but still little, it is necessary to take the latter. An outrageous situation is developing. The Estonian is made a slave to the bank. He'll take the cash to a bank where the bank will make a profit in a minute, but he'll have to pay for giving it to the bank. The same Estonian citizen goes to the bank or the ATM and wants to withdraw his own money, but he has to pay again. Let me ask you what for! This is absurd, given that we no longer pay the right percentages on deposits, but instead they want to start charging people for deposits. This is an outrageous situation for Estonia. But little of that, you're a complete slave to a bank because you're forced to put your lousy salary or your tiny pension on a bank account, cash is no longer paying you your salary. For centuries, Estonians who have been slaves to Germans and Swedes have now been made slaves to the bank for the rest of their lives. No one will listen to the voice of the opposition in this Chamber, but yet Parliament should not remain indifferent to the situation that has developed. We therefore expect answers from the politicians of the ruling coalition, the Reform Party and the IRL and the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. We should look the people in the eye without shame and say that the last of the people's very hard-working money will be taken because big banks need to be fattened. This is done, how to say, at the expense of the poor amount of money earned by the same Estonian slave labor. So let us serve foreign banks and wonder why the Estonian economy does not want to develop in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U17	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U18	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Urmas Reinsalu, Chairman of the Isamaa and Res Publica Association, said at the party council held in Viljandi on Saturday that although the Central Party would now win the Riigikogu elections, they are not going to accept the situation and are planning to prevent the formation of the Savisaare government. So instead of dealing with the issues of great importance to the state at the moment, such as large emigration, long-term unemployment, poverty, high prices, etc., the main problem with the IRL is how to prevent the victory of the Centre Party in elections to the Riigikogu in one year and three months' time, to prevent what has just taken place in local elections. It was Kentsaka to watch desperate power parties start to act in a panic as soon as Tallinn recovered from the electoral shock in order to hijack votes from the Centre Party in the next elections. No, not in such a fair way that, good voter, our policy is better, but with the moves of the bad guy. The defeat, especially in the capital city, but also across Estonia, naturally became angry, especially after Estonia's cartel media from morning to evening in the Central Party and Savisaar and other key figures had blackened out, in front of the sight of the fall of Tallinn's power. However, as many times before, such brutal intervention mobilised supporters of the Centre Party. This victory was once again absolute, i.e. with its forces, only a few more seats came from the election alliances. There is no reform party in Kristiine's administration, by the way, that was the voter's assessment of the lead party's activities. There are no members of the Reform Party in the Chamber at the moment. If you look at the situation across Estonia, the Centre Party received 31% of the votes, so more than the Reform Party and the IRL together. Of course, fear of the left side caused them to act quickly. If the rest, so-called teeth, don't hold the government together, then the coalition thinks it's definitely going to do this to Savisaar. What other thing was to be done was to go on a warmly supported and many votes, but also on free public transport, which was declared successful in Europe. We know that Savisaar said before the elections that once the local elections have been won, the power of state must also be changed, and that if we come to power on Toompea, we will also transport Estonia free of charge, give young people favorable housing, pay a pension supplement, etc. Consequently, free public transport and the promise to start offering it across the country are the greatest threat to current power. Free public transport was tried to be damaged as early as the summer when Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder asked the Chancellor of Justice about its legality and the government received no justification from the Chancellor of Justice. It is now to be done with the help of the Reform Party's so-called noble spirit Kaja Kallas. This has been the subject of an insidious amendment to the Public Transport Act: free transport, if you want, but for all those who enter public transport in this city, they are from Finland or the island, even though their taxes have not been paid a cent to the city's budget. I ask, where, for example, would Haapsalu take money so that thousands of tourists could take a free ride in the city? I think that the taxpayers of Tallinn, Pärnu and Tartu would not agree. Such a general free transport would, of course, be a very good solution, but it would be the responsibility of the State and should be based on state subsidies. This is, of course, only the beginning of things, and let us see how these thoughts of how to get done to the Centre Party will be in the future. We have just heard, by the way, how the IRL, together with the homeowners' association dependent on state money, will create a plan to sue the cheaper garbage transport in the city centre of Tallinn. The unborn, planned municipal store in the capital city has already been called the past. All I want to remember is that even the biggest gang-cratic attacks, conspiracy and blows down the belt, Savisaar and the Central Party have always come out as winners, and the batters have fallen off their backs. The public's sense of truth is deeper than political games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U19	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U20	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, During the last week of work, I followed with great interest a sociological experiment that took place here in the Riigikogu. In my opinion, the purpose of this was to find out how many of the 101 people sitting in this hall are kind, but unfortunately simple. What I am talking about right now is the address prepared by our colleague Liisa-Ly Pakosta, whose main proposal was to turn one room into a nursery in the Riigikogu, R103. It collected 51 signatures, as far as I know. That's what this indicator's good-hearted, but simple-minded. But first, I'll make some other conclusions. The first conclusion to be drawn by a person who does not know our life in this Riigikogu is that a member of the Riigikogu, Paksosta, does not have its own office. She says she has nowhere to put her baby if she stays here for a little while. Some people might think the poor guy works somewhere in the hallway. In fact, each of us has his own office, and the babysitter could handle the baby in no time. But, no, for some reason, they want to start some kind of repairs, redecorations for this one, two or even three nights, and so on. Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would like to make sure that my colleague Pakosta does not have an office! Maybe you've forgotten about him. Second conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, either we have become extremely cynical or we are indeed, I have no other explanation. I tried to investigate and it turned out that there is no nursery in any of the Estonian state institutions. No, because everyone chooses a job the terms of which they agree. Why would there be a children's room for a single night or two or three nights a year? First of all, I don't envy the kid who spends the night here. I'd fine that parent right now because he doesn't care about his child. Secondly, that is what they want to do with taxpayers' money. The size of this room is 26 to 27 square meters and there are very high ceilings. If it is properly repaired in accordance with these requirements, for example, set for Estonian kindergartens, the cost of repairing this room and furnishings will be EUR 40000 50,000. No institution in Estonia can afford this! We are currently living in very difficult conditions, and budget money is also tight. Is it really going to be that way now? We're talking about taxpayers' money! If the Board of the Riigikogu takes the decision to repair this room and make a nursery there, then it is my proposal that it be done not with taxpayers' money, but with the money of those who agreed to it. Thirdly, these very good-hearted, but simple colleagues, when someone starts talking tomorrow about having a seriously ill mother, father, or other older person, he needs to watch him at night, and he needs a room here somewhere so he can take care of that sick person during long sessions, and when he starts collecting signatures, are we looking for room to make a room like this? If anyone wants to put a bullet in their dog here, are we gonna deal with it too? If Mrs Pakosta informs us tomorrow that because there are evening sittings in the Riigikogu, she cannot go to church and it would be right to create a home church for her, will we also meet this request? Or do we make some Riigikogu cuisine where he can cook at night so he doesn't waste time when the day has gone too long? Ladies and gentlemen, take with humor the things you are being offered to sign, and think a little about the consequences of how much money is being wasted by one or the other proposal and for which it is being done. I sincerely hope that the Board of the Riigikogu will not support the proposal proposed by Mrs Pakosta. In the eyes of the people, it's a very funny proposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U21	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. Oh! Inara Luis, would you like to speak from position for two minutes? You can't speak in a free microphone. Inara Luigas, please hurry up!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U22	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry there's only four of us left in this hall. I had no intention of coming here today to talk, but I consulted my colleagues, Mrs Helmen and Mr Jüri, and I came anyway. Dear Mikhail, this time I disagree with you. I'm sure Liisa-Ly Pakosta didn't know there was going to be such a small attack on her today. But I believe that Liisa-Ly initiated such a call out of her good will, from her motherly heart, and 51 members of the Riigikogu signed it. I don't know if the staff in this house supported it, but I think they probably did. If you look at what has been done in this house, which has been furnished with rooms, on which money has been spent, I think that this appeal reflected the noble purpose of a good mother. I'll make a little comparison. Used to be smoking everywhere: workshops, corridors, cafes, where there were little children, where there were mothers waiting for the baby. It is now a duty for those who smoke to make separate rooms for that purpose. For some reason, many institutions and businesses have found money for this. These rooms have ventilation, benches and glass doors, and we are not complaining that investments have been made. This idea and initiative of Liisa-Ly is something I personally support and I am very pleased that many support. This room is not intended solely for Liisa-Ly and other members of the Riigikogu who have little children with them at work. This room is also intended for all the employees of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu who have small children. This room is also intended for all families who come to the Riigikogu for a work visit, a consultation or just a look. A lot of people go to the Riigikogu building, and it's nice when parents can leave their babies in the corner to play in order to get into the work themselves. Helmen may know this better, but I think there was such an agreement in the call that the members of the Riigikogu pay the supervisors who are hired there themselves. So I think Liisa-Ly did the right thing. I support this initiative, and I think that many others also support it. If we already have smoke rooms and rooms where we can sometimes even lift a glass of wine, then, forgive me, the corner dedicated to children is a great idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-02_U23	Thank you. There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 3.50 p.m.
