ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the third working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I have an inquiry to address to the Minister of Finance, Mr Jürgen Ligi. Let me brief you on the content of the inquiry. This concerns the guide for child protection workers, the guide for assessing the well-being of the child, which has been financially supported by the Ministry of Social Affairs. In April and June this year, we addressed a written question to Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas concerning the guidance materials developed by the NGO Children's and Families' Advisory Centre, which was supported by EUR 25000. As the answers of the Minister of Social Affairs regarding the development of guidance materials and financing of the NGO were contradictory, we also addressed the written question to the Auditor General, Mr Alar Karise. On the written question submitted to the controller, we focused on possible breaches of public procurement, the need to initiate a monitoring procedure and the fulfilment of the terms of the contract concluded between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the NGO. And with regard to the answer we have received, we will now turn to Mr Ligi. The Ministry of Social Affairs did not organise a public procurement for the preparation of the guide material. According to Minister Kõivas, this is possible because it is an ad hoc provision. This view is not shared by the Auditor General, who considers that the contract has characteristics of employment. We are now asking Minister Ligi which position he shares. In the same letter, Mr Karis also wrote that the Ministry of Finance should actually start a monitoring procedure. Let us ask whether this is the plan and, at all, we would like to know the position of the Minister of Finance as to whether social funds have been used for purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U3	Riigikogu speech chair Eiki Nestori, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Social Democratic Party Group initiates the Riigikogu decision 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic' with regard to the amendment of the development plan of the Estonian care network. This is the second time we've done this. The draft was discussed the first time in the Committee on Social Affairs, which unanimously supported it, but unfortunately it did not gather the necessary votes of support in this House, because many parliamentarians simply abstained from voting. I quote here the chairman of the committee, Mr Tsahkna, who said that the task of the state and the local authorities is to develop a comprehensive system based primarily on the interests of each person in need and the solutions to their concerns. The initiators of the draft are also convinced of this and therefore we will again give the members of the Riigikogu, including the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, the opportunity to vote in favour of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U5	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu will decide on their future procedure. There's been a message. Dear colleagues, today, after the plenary session, there will be an opening meeting of the Estonian-Oman Friendship Group in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, convened by Margus Tsahkna. We're looking forward to active participation! We're conducting a presence check. Good colleagues, I'm interrupting the presence check. A microphone for Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U6	Thank you. I don't have the big equipment we have.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U7	It's bad when the remote isn't working. It has to work. I'm declaring a three-minute break. The sitting will be resumed on 10.08.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U8	Dear colleagues, I apologize for this technical hiccup. I understand that now Mr. Valeri Korb's remote control is working. I hope the penguin isn't unhappy to have to sit alone today. Next time we can sit together again. Now let's try to retake the presence check. 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U9	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first item is the debate on the key national question 'Estonian Rural Development Plan 2014 to 2020'. Dear colleagues, allow me to briefly present the procedure for this debate, which follows from § 153 of our Home and Working Procedures Act. First of all, the Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder, will present a presentation. The Minister has requested up to 30 minutes for the presentation. The Minister's presentation is followed by a presentation by Professor Rando Värnik, Director of the Economic and Social Institute of the Estonian University of Life Sciences, 20 minutes. The Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee, Kalvi Tallis, will then be present for up to 15 minutes. For the first two reports, the round of questions and answers shall be up to 20 minutes; the round of questions and answers following the presentation by the Chairman of the Rural Commission shall be up to 15 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. After the round of questions, there will be a round of negotiations. Speakers may be members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups. The Committee on Rural Affairs has also proposed to extend the current session until the agenda is exhausted, if necessary, but no longer than 14 p.m. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Let us make sure that we return to the extension of the sitting as necessary. I now ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair of Agriculture Minister Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U10	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am extremely pleased that the debate on the rural development plan has reached the plenary hall of the Riigikogu as a matter of national importance. There are hundreds of development plans in the Republic of Estonia. Most of them are meant for literary reading because they are not specifically linked to the state's financial resources or to the state budget strategy. The rural development plan is an exception. The Rural Development Plan is a seven-year development plan funded by the European Union and the Republic of Estonia and approved by the European Commission for each Member State. It is therefore a strategic document that will shape Estonia's future substantially. Speaking of the rural development plan, we are actually talking about the common agricultural policy and the accompanying rural development policy. The CAP consists of two pillars, the first being direct payments and the market organisation, and the second pillar is rural development policy. This policy is financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. The objective of the rural development plan is to develop agriculture and food production and to address the effects of their development, which means activities aimed at changes in socio-economic land use and environmental impacts resulting from the development of agriculture. Over time, the scope of rural development policy has widened, but issues have remained directly or indirectly linked to agriculture. The rural development plan for the CAP does not cover all rural development and not all rural problems. The rural development plan does not replace national regional policy or environmental policy, such expectations of the rural development plan would be unrealistic. The rural development plan for 2014‐2020 has been drawn up for a number of years, which has been the result of a very thorough and inclusive dialogue with various stakeholders. In order to develop the development plan, a steering committee has been set up, comprising 29 organisations, and the measures of the development plan have been developed in expert groups which, in addition to the organisations represented in the Commission, have the same number of other organisations. Thus, 50-60 organisations are involved in the process. If so many interest groups are represented, there are different interests and conflicts. Many of you have certainly come across a number of issues. Within the agricultural sector, it will be discussed whether the focus should be on small producers, in particular, as carriers of family farms and rural continuity, or on large producers as main self-supply providers and economic recoveryers through exports, what should be the ratio between organic production and conventional production. In the case of the food industry, its role as an asset to agricultural products and as a source of added value is highlighted. There are stakeholders who consider the rural environment to be just as important a part of the rural economy. The representatives of rural operators consider that since the main employer in rural areas is no longer agriculture, the focus should be on other rural enterprises. The issue of the environment is whether and how far to go in order to reduce the environmental impact of agriculture. How much to finance forestry measures, land improvement, what is the priority of joint action, limit only to non-refundable aid, or also implement a financial instrument? What role should science, training and advisory services play? This brief list shows that there are more wishes than opportunities. For its part, the Ministry of Agriculture has tried to find a balance between these issues, but balance does not always mean development. Consensusal money sharing between stakeholders cannot be an end in itself. The objective of the rural development plan must be development, new quality and structural changes. The following is a description of how the Ministry of Agriculture sees the role of the rural development plan in promoting rural development and what a balance point could be, which at the same time does not compromise the long-term view of rural development. The rural development plan focuses on five areas: firstly, the transfer of knowledge in agriculture, forestry and the food sector; secondly, the competitiveness of agriculture; thirdly, the functioning of the food supply chain; fourthly, the environment; fifthly, rural enterprise and local initiative. In the area of knowledge transfer, we see the ability to invest in R &amp; D, innovation and cooperation between producers and advisors and researchers as key challenges. Consequently, in the new period, the focus of knowledge transfer will be on how to increase cooperation between the different actors and how to put research results into practice more effectively. R &amp; D plays a very important role in competitiveness and modern knowledge is needed alongside modern technology in order to be competitive. In order to improve competitiveness, we are based on the fact that the investment capacity, productivity and competitiveness of our producers are low compared to the European Union average and the age structure of the sector is unsustainable. At the same time, the world, population growth and the resulting demand for both food and energy supply offer our producers positive long-term prospects. In activities aimed at improving competitiveness, we want to ensure that they are accompanied by a development leap and structural changes. Consequently, in terms of competitiveness, we will focus first and foremost on long-term investments. Both small and large producers certainly have a role to play here. It is important to identify the main needs of each size group and the instruments that suit them. It is also important that the investment is accompanied by other positive values, such as resource savings. I also dare say here that investment is one of the most effective instruments for achieving environmental objectives. As far as the food supply chain is concerned, the key question is how to make our agricultural production worth as much as possible so that we move products with high added value out of Estonia. It is also important how our organic production, which is now widely marketed as conventional production, is processed and marketed as organic production. This would help to obtain a higher price for organic products, thereby increasing the market orientation of the sector. We are still in a situation where our producers have little cooperation capacity, productivity and competitiveness in the food industry, compared to the European Union average, low capacity and also low capacity to invest in marketing. There are insufficient outlets for niche products and the share of products with high added value in the final product is low. As a result, one of the priorities of the RDP is to create greater added value, as well as to channel farmers towards cooperation and greater value for their production. If we come to the environmental sector, we are well equipped with land resources, we have a climate suitable for environmentally friendly production, a relatively large share of organic agricultural land and many natural values have been preserved. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that concentration also leads to an intensification of agriculture, which in turn leads to potential environmental risks. Consequently, in the field of environment, the rural development plan focuses on the impact that active agricultural measures have on water, soil and the environment. It is certainly a place here to preserve natural values, but only to the extent that agriculture is primarily concerned. The rural development plan also deals with rural entrepreneurship and the local initiative. Developments in the rural economy over the past two decades have been a decline in the number of agricultural workers from 140000 to 200000, a concentration of population and economic activity in centres, a shortage of attractive jobs and a deterioration in the availability of services. In order to address these problems, we have considered it necessary to focus on both the rural business and the living environment. The focus of the rural development plan is primarily on how to use local resources and solutions to improve the living environment and create jobs. At the same time, we must recognise that no equal alternative has been found in the country for the workforce released from agriculture to this extent. If we want to achieve new quality in rural entrepreneurship and more broadly in rural areas, all European Union funds, ministries and all sectoral policies must contribute to its development. Here we come to the question of how much money we have to implement all these ideas. In the new period, we have 936 million euros to use in the framework of the rural development plan, together with the European Union's contribution and co-financing by the Estonian state, 35% of which goes to the environmental sector, 28% to competitiveness, 18% to rural enterprise and local initiative, 11% to the food supply chain and 4% to knowledge transfer. If we compare the distribution of money to that of the current period, we see that more money is received in two areas: knowledge transfer and the food supply chain. The volume of funds will remain the same in terms of competitiveness, a slight reduction in the environment and a further reduction in the number of rural enterprises and local initiatives. This distribution shows, firstly, the priorities of the RDP, the role of R &amp; D and added value in the new period. Secondly, if certain areas have so far been financed in some way, this funding does not have to continue in the same amount, it would be a slippery way to create a subsidy dependency. Rather, we must bear in mind how all our subsidies will lead to the result that no further support will be needed in the future. Thirdly, in some areas in the new period, there is a plan to move from the use of non-refundable aid to forms of returnable aid, i.e. the implementation of a financial instrument. As regards both funding for the different areas of the rural development plan and the choice of measures, I stress that the rural development plan is not ready. Discussions will continue and this plan will be finally approved by the Government of the Republic. Thus, the proportion of funding and the choice of measures currently under discussion may still change. A so-called menu of measures has been proposed at European level, from which Member States will make a choice when drawing up the development plan. Two measures are mandatory: agri-environmental support and Leader. In the new period, we have planned 23 measures under the rural development plan. In the new period, there will be no support for disadvantaged areas, no support for the restoration of stone gardens and no support for the renewal and development of villages. The mandatory environmental measure shall be at least 30%. A number of environmental measures are planned in Estonia, which together account for 35%, so more than is required by the European Union. Estonia's rural development plan is one of the greenest in the European Union. Environmental criticism of the RDP often tends to focus on a few aspects of the RDP, regardless of the overall picture. Environment is an area that needs a holistic approach. On the one hand, we have provided for a comprehensive green management measure aimed at improving environmental awareness and introducing environmentally friendly production methods. In addition, we have a whole range of active environmental measures aimed at addressing specific environmental problems, with new measures such as soil protection or support for environmentally friendly gardening. It is also worth noting from an environmental point of view that the investment measure adds many incentives to carry out environmental investments in particular, and that the advisory measure provides a wide range of incentives to use environmental advice and thereby raise awareness. The most problematic environmental measures are the Natura agricultural and forest land measure, which is passive in nature and creates inequalities between landowners and farmers. The Chancellor of Justice is also currently involved in the assessment of the compatibility of Natura action with the Constitution and the principle of equal treatment. This means that, when implementing the Natura measure, landowners and producers must be treated equally and should be part of environmental policy and not of the rural development plan. This is also the view of the vast majority of the members of the Steering Committee. In the case of organic farming, we have reached quite a large share of organic land through subsidies. The challenge is to reach an increase in organic production from here. Achieving this objective through both organic support and other RDP instruments must lead to organic production reaching the consumer in a mild way. Investment grants are key to the competitiveness of agriculture. It is important here that subsidies reach both small and large producers, whose competitiveness needs to be improved. At the same time, their competitiveness lies in different locations. In the case of small producers, we can talk about competitiveness at local level. Its output is primarily a joint activity or specialization, which provides the opportunity for local Estonian food and a short supply chain and direct marketing, activities that bring the producer closer to the consumer. Large producers competing on the global market need support to improve our self-sufficiency and export potential. The priority given to the food industry and marketing is reflected in both the increase in the financing of processing investments and the changes in the substance of the measures. Farmers' production is mostly placed on the market by the food industry. It is important to increase the efficiency and marketing capacity of the food industry. Here is a simple example of dairying. Estonia produces considerably more milk than we consume it ourselves in 2012 was a self-sufficiency rate of 11⁄2 per cent; the rest is largely exported as raw milk, which is worthwhile in our immediate neighbours. We want to give a boost so that our production is deserved on the ground, whether through the cooperative processing of local producers or through local industries, leaving added value on the ground and thus contributing to the Estonian economy. For our producers to be competitive, we cannot pass R &amp; D and innovation. In the new period, the rural development plan adds a number of activities aimed at involving more advisors and researchers in the production decisions of producers. Discussions on the diversification measure have so far focused in particular on the reduction of its budget. However, several important facts have been overlooked in these discussions, whether knowingly or not. Firstly, if until now the budget for the measure was divided equally between farmers and other operators, then in the future it will be the budget share of other rural operators that will increase by up to 70% to other rural operators. In addition, there will be a fundamental change for supported activities. Indeed, if up to now almost half of the budget for the measure has gone to the tourism sector and most of it has gone to the construction of beds, the creation of beds in this form will no longer be supported in the new period. Created beds must be filled both in direct and indirect terms. Rather, rural tourism faces the challenge of reducing seasonality and finding new services to ensure that the beds created are in constant use. Labour costs and average wages, which are among the lowest in the tourism sector, can be used to illustrate the current situation. At the end of 2009, the gross wage in the accommodation and catering sector was 519 euros significantly lower than in agriculture, forestry and fishing 698 euros, not to mention the Estonian average, which was 839 euros. This merely confirms that the direction of the diversification measure towards activities that should increase added value is only right. In the case of measures, I would also like to mention the financial instrument, the new element of the rural development plan. In order to use the financial instrument, we have foreseen EUR 65 million. Through the financial instrument, we replace the existing form of non-refundable aid in certain areas and for certain activities with repayable assistance. This is because, in the long term, we need to increase our readiness to handle smaller subsidies, and the financial instrument can reduce the dependence on support. Financial instruments also significantly less distort the market between beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries and allow for much more support for beneficiaries and projects. In addition, the financial instrument is "reusable" and as a result, the state of Estonia will have free money to implement its agricultural policy in the future through resources that are being recovered. For a financial instrument, the refundable money is freely available and is not subject to requirements and criteria established by the European Union. We can use it ourselves in accordance with the priorities set in our own country and flexibly and operationally to implement agricultural policy. This is an added value which may not be felt by the applicants at first. To conclude my speech, I want to get to where I started. Rural development is undoubtedly such an important issue that it deserves to be discussed as a matter of national importance. However, the debate should not be limited to the role of the CAP in rural development. The preparations for the 2014-2020 period also cover all other sectoral policies that have an impact on rural development at least as much as the rural development policy accompanying the common agricultural policy, be they education, transport or business policy. It would therefore be most welcome if the impact of all these policies on rural development were also discussed at the level of the Riigikogu. This is one of the ways to ensure the best synergy and effectiveness of the different policies from a rural perspective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U11	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions too. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U12	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! There are plenty of land in Estonia that belongs to various funds and successful entrepreneurs who do not directly engage in agricultural production. Their business is to withdraw the single area payment and mow the land. If I wanted to rent them farmland and start farming, they would take the area payment and ask me for more land rent of about 30 euros per hectare. Has the debate on the rural development plan also mentioned that such a capital-intensive business and quite large distribution of area payments for simply mowing places real farmers in an unequal position that this is an abnormal situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U13	Thank you. This is a very serious issue, although it relates more to the subject of direct payments. When you listened carefully at first, you know that the common agricultural policy is divided into two parts: direct payments and market organisation and rural development policy. This is, above all, the issue of direct payments, which is not the main topic of today's debate. But yes, it is a complex issue that we have discussed in the ministry together with the agricultural sector, both in the context of direct payments and in the context of the rural development plan. This is the subject of the European Commission, the Council of Agriculture Ministers and also the European Parliament. We will certainly take some steps to resolve this problem in the next period in order to move forward for the better. It is likely that some form of pan-European framework regulation will be introduced to distinguish between active and passive farmers, but this is certainly not enough. If the Member State retains great freedoms and opportunities, it should become clear in the coming months. In any case, we are dealing with this issue. I am not very optimistic here, I think that this problem will be resolved if, at one point in the European Union's agricultural policy, there are no more direct payments. But it's still a long way to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U14	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U15	Thank you. Good minister! Yesterday, the government handed over the budget to the Riigikogu for the following year. This shows that the state budget does not consider it possible to grant farmers any additional direct aid necessary to compensate for unequal subsidies in the European Union. As the new Member States are allowed to pay additional direct payments, and probably many of them do so, according to our data, this has also been accounted for in Latvia's budget for next year, it will further perpetuate the unequal conditions of competition between Estonian farmers. Have you analysed how much income loss will hit Estonian livestock and cereal farmers in the new year, as there is no longer any plan to pay additional direct payments and grazing aid from the rural development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U16	Thank you. Nor is this issue directly linked to the rural development plan, as it again concerns those direct payments which are not part of the rural development plan. Of course, we have analysed what this situation entails. Although direct payments to farmers as a whole are increasing and actually growing quite significantly during the 20142020 period, especially the money we receive from the European Union, the years 2014 to 2015 are still difficult. In the government office, we have discussed this issue quite a number of times. The Ministry of Agriculture applied for direct payments. However, I want to make it clear here that the European Commission has taken this decision that additional national direct payments may be granted in addition to direct payments, i.e. top-ups in the old sense, only last spring, after the state budget for next year had already been drawn up and the state budget strategy had also been approved, which had not taken this possibility into account, because the Commission had previously announced that this possibility would not continue in the new period. So this money should be found on the move, but this is what we've applied for. Finally, the Cabinet decided to build on the political agreement reached in the European Union Council, according to which an additional EUR 50 million was allocated to Estonia in the rural development plan, so that the Estonian state could cover a possible reduction in direct payments in 2014 and 2015. This was the political agreement of the Council, and this was also the reason why the additional 50 million were allocated to the Estonian rural development plan. The Cabinet decided to proceed with this agreement and to find the money from these funds. At the same time, however, there is now an opportunity to do so from the state budget. The budget is approved by Parliament, and if Parliament considers it possible to change the state budget during the procedure so that this money is found in the state budget, then the Ministry of Agriculture will certainly support it. As far as possible reductions in subsidies are concerned, this is not very high in percentage terms. In financial terms, it will be around EUR 15 million over two years. The deficit, divided into two years, is about EUR 15 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U17	Rein Aidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You also touched on this eternal dilemma in your presentation: the great manufacturers and efficiency versus the life style of the small producer and the land. In the light of the draft MAK, what does the Minister think is the balance between the two interest groups? You can still hear complaining on both sides. Or maybe there's a balance?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U19	The assessment of this balance is certainly very subjective and, when looked through different eyes, the equilibrium point is at a different location. I do think that what is now being proposed is more or less balanced, although the draft is not definitive and disputes about it are likely to continue until the last moment, until the Government of the Republic approves it nationally and we submit the plan to the Commission. I think this balance has been found by now, but that doesn't mean there's a balance point. The final truth will be revealed once we have agreed on the Steering Committee for the Rural Development Plan. We are planning to meet and discuss in October, and there will also be a debate in the Government of the Republic. This is one of the most important issues of Estonian agricultural policy, and this dispute is actually a dispute where both sides have the right, but in the end, a solution must be found and an agreement reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U20	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U21	Thank you. Good minister! The Leader measure has been a real straw in their activities for a small enterprise operating in the countryside as well as for village communities. While we can welcome the fact that the Leader measure is 10% of the rural development plan's volume, it is indeed in percentage terms higher than in many other countries, but since in the new period the village development measure disappears side by side, in the end, there is still less money in the area of the local initiative. Inevitably, there will be an increase in pressure in Leader funding to channel more resources towards non-business investments, which is also an important area, but I think it is crucial that we be able, in the next period, to channel money first and foremost towards job creation, because in some other way our people will not be able to live in the countryside. What is specifically designed to significantly increase funding for job creation activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U22	Thank you. The commentary on the Leader measure is so much that, yes, the total volume of the local initiative will decrease in the next period, compared to the current period, and this is due to the non-implementation of the rural development measure. In fact, during the current period, the village development measure was intended as a temporary measure at the beginning of the period, as long as the Leader measure had not yet been implemented. The preparation of the Leader measure took a great deal of time. This required the creation of Leader regions, the development of strategies, etc. When the Leader measure was launched, we stopped financing the village development measure already during this period. So it was a "start-up" measure. In the next period, this is one Leader measure; two'similar' or similar measures do not make sense for us to continue. One of the important objectives of the RDP as a whole is to create jobs, but not to create jobs with little added value and low wages. However, in the case of Leader and rural diversification, I consider the sustainability of these investments to be one of the problems. We have invested very much in buildings, facilities through Leader during this period, but their subsequent management, use and maintenance are not always planned and not always sustainable. We need to focus more on ensuring that the costs and investments made are sustainable. The same is true of the diversification of rural areas. As I have already said, there has been a great deal of investment in tourism and beds, but statistics also show that tourism does not make Estonia rich (this is a wider topic). Rural tourism is one of the lowest wage levels. This does not bring very high added value and there is relatively little research-based work there. So accommodation, catering, cleaning and other services, hoteling is not the area that makes us wealthy. Especially if we make these investments in such a way that they do not involve other activities or sustainability. In fact, with regard to other measures, we have also taken into account that investments must create jobs that are effective, create added value and pay higher wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U23	Siim Kabrits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I am pleased that the Ministry of Agriculture has done a good job and, in the new period, it is a part of the financial instrument that is growing significantly. My question concerns the current situation in which the APR, loan plus guarantee fees for rural entrepreneurs in Finland and Sweden are around 2%. Unfortunately, the annual percentage rate of charge for Estonian rural entrepreneurs is up to 10%. Can it be seen that the share of guarantee fees could become competitive compared to the neighbouring countries Finland and Sweden?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U25	Thank you. Yeah, we've been thinking about the goal you mentioned. A measure of EUR 65 million for the next period is envisaged through the Rural Promotion Foundation. I must acknowledge here right now that the implementation of this measure has also created very lively debates and different opinions, there is no consensus either in the steering committee of the rural development plan or in the sector as a whole. The Ministry of Agriculture considers it necessary and appropriate to implement this financial instrument, and we very much hope that it will provide new opportunities for the development of the sector and will allow more support for farmers than could be done through non-repayable aid. In particular, we see that the financial instrument would be applied to agricultural investment, rural diversification and the food industry. These are three areas where the financial instrument should certainly be applicable, but this list is not exhaustive, and discussions may reveal that this field of use is wider.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U26	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In your presentation, you stressed the need and importance of investments. In the new period, it is well known that agricultural investment will be reduced from 191 million to 163 million euros. Agricultural organisations will also see, and surely you will see, if you move around Estonia, either by opening new objects or by drowning concrete in cylinders, that much more of these investments are needed. This has also been stressed in MAK that the lack of investment hampers competitiveness and, on the other hand, worsens the state of the environment. What is your assessment of whether this amount is sufficient for investments in agricultural production? With what messages will you go to the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U28	Money is never enough, let alone too much. There is not enough money in the investment measure and the entire RDP could be several times larger. But this is the reality we need to build on. I would like to make a few comments on agricultural investment. We have not planned a direct reduction in agricultural investment in the rural development plan. At present, it is planned that the irrecoverable aid will be reduced by EUR 30 million, from 190 million to 160 million. However, this does not mean that investment opportunities as a whole are lower. I would remind you that as a new instrument, there will be a financial instrument for investments that farmers can use for agricultural investments. This was not an option in this period, and therefore I do not dare to say with certainty today that investment in support of the rural development plan will be reduced in the next period. Perhaps they will even increase slightly, but the proportion of non-refundable aid will probably decrease proportionally somewhat. Secondly, does investment always increase competitiveness? You gotta be careful out here, too. Naturally, in order to be competitive, technology, technology must keep pace with development, innovation and investment. However, if we invest over, if we fail to serve the loans as a result, if the cost of production is therefore increasing, competitiveness will also be reduced. So we certainly do not want to give the agricultural sector a signal for overinvestment in economic terms, which is particularly evident in crisis situations where buying-in prices are falling as a result of the market situation. In this situation, Estonian entrepreneurs, especially the larger companies, have invested a great deal, with the concern that the cost of production cannot be reduced, the liabilities to the banks continue to rise and therefore the competitiveness will be reduced. So investment must also be moderate and cautious, and that is what we must bear in mind when it comes to investment measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U29	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U30	Thank you very much. Thank you for your presentation, Minister. My question is about education, employment and the prospects and choices of young people today. How would you predict in a five, 10, 15-year perspective how much of Estonia's working-age population could and should work directly in the agricultural sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U31	Thank you. It's easier today than it was 10 or 15 years ago. While in 1991 the number of farmers directly employed was more than 140000, in 2011 there were 20000, i.e. a decrease of 7 times over 20 years, not 70%, but 7 times. I cannot say another such area in the Estonian state. But developments in recent years show that this level has stabilised and has even increased somewhat. I think that the agricultural sector's labour force in Estonia will no longer decline drastically, and it is likely that this decrease will be between 2% and 3%. I do not predict any sudden growth or significant decline here. It is no longer realistic to reduce by 2-3 times.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U32	Treasure Heinvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you for your good presentation. By quoting the introduction to the rural development plan, the objectives of rural development policy are the competitiveness of agriculture, sustainable management of natural resources and balanced territorial development of rural areas. If you put these objectives on the scale of national food security, how will you comment on them, particularly in the context of balanced territorial development in rural areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U34	Thank you. It is true that the rural development plan has very broad objectives and, as I said at the beginning, it is primarily the rural development plan of the common agricultural policy, which deals with the consequences and effects of the development of agriculture and food production. We cannot understand this development plan so that it is the whole rural development plan in a broad sense that we are working there on road network design and public transport, access to health services, school network issues and everything else. This is not what the CAP rural development plan deals with; it has its own sectoral policies, regional policy. There is certainly no administrative-territorial reform of the rural development plan itself. The rural development plan does not have such ambitious objectives. We need to strike a balance and, above all, in terms of employment, the aim is to find employment for those people who have been freed from the agricultural sector, who no longer have jobs in the agricultural sector. They must be offered alternative opportunities on the ground so that this infrastructure, which is released from agriculture, these buildings and facilities can be used for other purposes, etc. In environmental policy, we must address the impact of agriculture on the environment, water, soil, biodiversity, we cannot aim for the rural development plan, for example, to deal with national nature reserves, management plans and such, which is already a broader environmental policy objective. So understand, the objective of the rural development plan is, however, limited.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U35	Minister, thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Professor Rando Värnik, Director of the Economic and Social Institute of the Estonian University of Life Sciences!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U36	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu and Members of the Riigikogu! Good minister! Good listeners! The subject of my presentation is what rural development plan we need. The subject is driven by the preparation of the 2014 RDP budget and the need to take greater account of rural problems, as well as the need to change our understanding of the purpose of the support. The movement of people towards regions with a high level of development is a natural choice. We are more attracted to centres with larger shops, advanced entrepreneurship, higher salaries and better access to services. Therefore, centre-based management does not solve the main problem of regional development, which is the capacity needed on the ground. Capacity is shaped by a clear division of responsibilities, responsibility and a thorough review of the financing model at national and local level. Studies show that local authorities have so far not had a clear task of developing entrepreneurship in their region, as the financing model does not motivate this. In addition, the development of the business environment may entail high costs and, in certain cases, it may become a major problem for the already thin wallet of the local government. The essence of the above is that, in order to achieve the development of rural areas, it is necessary to pursue the development of entrepreneurship more broadly, both in terms of raising entrepreneurship and in terms of solving and promoting the development of business problems. On the one hand, there is structural unemployment in rural areas, but on the other hand, developing companies are unable to find enough labour. Thus, the development of the whole region begins with the quantity and quality of human capital. Another problem that needs to be recognised is the fact that, in terms of the state budget, we are already dependent on the European Union's aid of 17 to 18%. We must be prepared to manage as a country even if subsidies are decreasing, so all subsidies must be treated as temporary measures to encourage the necessary developments. It is worth asking ourselves what our choices would be if we were not able to implement agricultural policy with the European Union's resources and only the budgetary resources of the Estonian state should be used. I would raise the issue of the existence and sustainability of subsidies in the case of so-called meadows and organic farmers. Current experience as a member of the European Union shows that policies have had an impact on primary production resources, on the uptake of agricultural land, but also on the level of fish farms, for example. The main reason here is the area-related decoupled payments. This has resulted in a very extensive lack of economic potential or only partial exploitation. For example, such activities have led to an increase in the number of so-called meadows that mow grasses once a year in order to be eligible for the single area payment instead of using land resources to generate economic value in the production of food. It is true that this activity is in line with the broader objective of the CAP, which is to keep the land ready for production. Another example is the high proportion of organic grassland. Estonia is at the forefront of organic production in Europe, but organic production still accounts for only 0.5% of total food production. The current policy has favoured the maintenance of organic grassland without requiring to a significant extent the production of organic products. We have invested in fish farms, but less than half of the capacity created is currently being used. Investment in milk production has been rapid, but Estonia's share in exports of dairy products in our region is decreasing. Thus, high costs have been incurred, but the most important objective of increasing economic value added has not been achieved in a number of areas. Inevitably, the question arises of the extent to which agricultural policy is the first and second pillars of economic policy and the extent to which it is environmental, social and wider regional policy. Regional policy would require a reduction in the backwardness of the regions, which can build on the development of viable business. It must therefore first be made clear whether we want to solve economic, environmental or social problems with agricultural policy. As resources are limited, choices need to be made, as support for the rural development plan alone cannot solve or alleviate all rural problems. Certainly today, agricultural policy is more broadly an economic, environmental, social and regional policy, but in order to achieve economic sustainability, we should pay attention in the new budgetary period to making the most of the available resources. The key word here is productivity growth. This means, however, that more attention should be paid to reaching the consumer of their products. This principle must be a priority for all agricultural sectors and also for other rural enterprises. In the dairy sector, for example, this inevitably means reaching export markets in excess of what has been the case with its products, rather than exporting raw milk. Thus, the development and marketing of raw materials is a key issue and requires slightly different policies and activities than in 2004-2013. Inevitably, this means that someone will lose their allowance. This reduction in the allowance should be compensated by the additional money earned on the market. It is essential that the farmer has a strong position in the value chain in order for the money he earns on the market to reach the first producer as well. The Scandinavian example shows that this position will be strengthened by joint action and by industries belonging to producers' cooperatives. However, globalisation shows that, in order to survive, these cooperatives have had to grow and have also gone beyond national borders, which could mean the emergence of hybrid structures. In this case, how to ensure that a farmer controls the cooperative's activities and also to ensure that a cooperative operating in several countries acts in the interests of its owner, the farmer, is already a matter of its own. This requires an improvement in the organisational culture of the cooperative and the application of specific principles, as well as the control and responsibility of the owner. There are obviously problems to be solved here and there are no simple answers. What is certain is that you have to take the risk and trust each other. It is necessary to keep in mind that our food producers compete on international markets with other producers whose levels of subsidies are higher. Therefore, productive investments in companies that create added value in the meaning of the State and help to increase exports should be encouraged in particular. On the one hand, food safety requirements and even more attention to environmental aspects put pressure on farmers to invest. On the other hand, in order to keep up-to-date, it is necessary to continue to upgrade the fixed assets related to energy savings. It is the competitiveness of rural areas that can be developed most in Estonia's rural area, and MAK's resources are primarily intended to increase the viability of food production in the agricultural sector. If priority is given to achieving viable food production by 2020, there must also be no distinction between "small" and "large" producers when granting subsidies. Any export of raw materials is harmful to the Estonian state, so more must be invested in the development of the industry in order to gain higher added value. Particular attention should be paid to the development of supply chains. Co-operative supply chains must become a manufacturer and marketer based on common ground and for the interests of members, and the aim is to become internationally competitive. Short supply chains, as local cooperation networks, must aim to drive out imports from the market. Organic production must also be more deserving. If so far we have been working on extending the organic surface, then now we need to get the maximum value from this surface. Further expansion of organic land is not economically viable. A large proportion of the products used for gardening have been imported, which means a number of jobs lost in Estonia at the same time, because we could also produce them ourselves. The diversification of entrepreneurship is necessary if we want rural development to take place, because agriculture alone cannot guarantee jobs in rural areas. Unfortunately, when it comes to budgetary resources for the development of rural enterprises, the issue is always limited to the resources of MAK and other financial opportunities are not discussed. The MAK funds are largely intended for the development of agricultural production. It must be taken into account that the purpose of the support is to go through a certain stage of development, and then try to cope without subsidies. In doing so, we must take into account that, in terms of the use of rural resources, agricultural production is the only area that needs support most for food production. Unlike Lithuania, Estonia has developed a dual structure of farmers. We have a small number of producers using relatively large lands and a large number of producers using small land resources. The financial capacity of some is relatively modest in order to achieve development and others have developed financial capacity. However, further investment is needed to ensure development and remain competitive. The objective of the rural development plan is to increase the competitiveness and resource efficiency of a viable and sustainable food sector. With this objective in mind, we must ask ourselves whether we want to change the structure of agricultural production that has developed so far and what structure we want to see in the future. Farms are socially and emotionally important for rural areas and rural areas, but mostly they have not become viable in economic terms. The development of farms is necessary in terms of the viability and culture of the Estonian economy, to increase networks and the bottom-up initiative, but in economic terms, farms need to find their own face and competitive content, whether it be organic production, horticulture, beekeeping, beef and sheep farming. Working together and forming cooperatives, networking takes place and there is no longer a single small farm with its marketing problems. There is certainly a specific place in Estonia for production based on a short supply chain. Closer business-to-business cooperation and networking within the supply chain will play an important role in rural development in the future. Joint action between producers and processors must be able to create more added value in the new period. Productivity growth must be ensured in all areas of rural enterprise, which requires more careful consideration of what to produce and which market. There is certainly a contradiction here that, in the case of a farm rather than a subject bearing the social value of the land's way of life, the goal cannot be to increase productivity as such. This is a social aspect. The owner of a small farm, receiving basic products from his field and keeping his land in good agricultural condition, does not go to the state to ask for social support to support the family. Consequently, a farm in a smaller rural unit may also need state aid in the form of investment support, as it should also provide a year-round income for at least two members of its family. A serious problem is the sustainability of farms and farms in circumstances where the average age of entrepreneurs is increasing and the young generation is less motivated to continue the work of the farm or the farm. Therefore, measures enabling and motivating the holding to continue to operate are necessary. Although there are a number of signs of positive developments and an improvement in the image of rural life as a whole, there is a widespread desire among young people to be more involved in urban activities. However, this attitude is shaped by the fact that important decision-making centres are disappearing from rural areas or by the fact that the secondary schools are disappearing, which in turn is due to the demographic situation in Estonia and the increasing concentration around larger centres. Thus, it is important to cultivate the spirituality of rural areas at all levels of school, and the welfare of rural areas depends on it. The problem for rural operators is partly the lack of employees that have already developed. There is increasing competition for labour in different sectors, which in itself has a positive impact on wage formation in the labour market, but often the lack of employees hinders the development of entrepreneurship in the region. This leads to the conclusion that rural operators are increasingly affected by the proximity of cities to both the production and labour markets. Compared to 2001 and 2010, the number of persons employed in agricultural holdings has fallen by more than 2.4 times. However, it is important that some 40,000 people are employed as family workers and that more than 14000 employees work for legal companies. Land ownership and its changes are a specific issue for rural development. Related to agricultural production, land is defined as primarily land ownership which is used either by the owners themselves or rented from the owners. The issue of land ownership is therefore the subject of the direction and development of the next rural development plan. At present, a large proportion of farmers rent land from smaller producers and landowners, and the share of leased land according to the 2010 agricultural census amounts to 53% of the utilised agricultural area, i.e. 940000 hectares. The share of the rental land has increased by more than 100000 hectares in comparison with the data for 2001 and 2010. Around 186000 hectares of agricultural land are used by very low-income households, and it is here that changes can be expected over the next ten years. According to the ideology of direct payments by the European Union, the cultivation of land for food production has so far been supported, but under the pressure of the WTO, it is necessary to decouple direct payments more from production. This means that the farmer will compete for the land resources available to him with alternative activities, depending more on how much added value can be earned per hectare. Thus, there is a problem that the land used by large agricultural production units today may be lost because they cannot pay rent. The role of advisors and advisory services becomes important in the key to the production potential and value of companies. Advice is given on what is wise to do with your property, what to produce and what to buy in. Greater attention should be paid to who our land may belong to in the future and whether profits from land ownership will not be taken out of the country. It can be argued that there is also a market in terms of land as a resource and that the higher price provider is ultimately the owner, but, in a simplified way, the resource in the country may slip into the hands of residents of other countries. The question therefore arises as to how, through future policies, we can influence developments in a beneficial direction for Estonia. The creation of non-agricultural jobs in the so-called "pull centres" must also be considered to be correct, but this should not be done by means of support for the rural development plan, with the exception of adding value to food in industry. Rural policy should also guide entrepreneurship through Leader actions. It is possible to find and resurrect an enterprising spirit on earth through community knowledge and decision-making. The development of all services and the problem of the ageing population of Estonia and of Europe at all must be transformed into an opportunity in cooperation with the tourism and business sectors. The diversification of the rural economy is therefore important. In addition to farming in the field, we can develop fish farming in inland waters, as well as forest and forest products. So we should think about how to use our wealth more purposefully so that Estonia as a whole can benefit from it. From the point of view of Estonia's rural development, it is important that our producers are more and more encouraged to label their products 'produced in Estonia', which gives the consumer a guarantee of choice in both the shop and the market. It's the only way we can develop our country. If, in the current preparation phase of the rural development plan, the focus is on how much money anyone needs, then, as a whole, a political decision is needed as to whether the established structure of farmers satisfies us or whether we want to change its balance. It is also clear that an undertaking operating in a rural area has substantially different location-related conditions than undertakings operating in large cities, which is why it definitely needs state support. The payment of competitive wages to workers is a prerequisite for people to stay in the country. This is often linked to the company's ability to produce and sell, which is why productivity and supply of higher value added products need to increase. Productivity growth in agriculture can in many cases only come from the expansion of production, which is why it is inevitable that businesses will grow further. Three more minutes, if you don't mind!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U37	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U38	Thank you, good manager. The tourism and local food support group of the Riigikogu is one of the most numerous in the Riigikogu. As chairman of this association, I cannot in any way agree with the Minister's views in this Chamber that tourism does not add value in Estonia. The positive impact of tourism in rural areas is beyond doubt and will also have a positive impact on all other sectors. But you said in your report that a measure to diversify the rural economy is necessary. However, this measure has been reduced by 41% in the new MAK compared to the end-of-life period. It is a measure that creates new jobs for the countryside, new businesses and brings young people to live there. The budget allocation proposed by the Ministry could lead to rural decline. It is not a question of the support dependency that the Minister spoke about, but of underfunding new businesses and job creation. Do you think it is right that this measure of rural diversification should be cut so much and that the opinion of the social partners has not been taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U39	My answer is that yes, this measure has been reduced and maybe there could be more money. At the same time, there is an opportunity to change this percentage through Leader funding, Leader packages, business packages. And I certainly think that these beds have been created, in that sense I very much agree with the Minister. The question now is how to develop Estonian tourism as a whole in such a way that rural areas also win and come more customers. The problem is that there are no customers. The answer is perhaps that Leader should come up with some kind of money to help achieve these goals in terms of entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U40	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, my dear professor. As we know, there were 1 40,000 jobs in the country, and by today this figure has fallen to 20,000. How do you predict whether, in the future, the number of these jobs will be further reduced or whether we will be able to maintain this figure in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U42	We have looked at trends and, in the last rural development report, we have highlighted the changes in the last 20 years. It seems that structural changes have taken place, and I sincerely hope that a very drastic drop in jobs will not be expected that employment will not decrease. Of course, technology here makes its corrections. If the milking robot is still replacing some people, that is the case, but it is linked to competitiveness and added value objectives. At the same time, we know that there are also those producers who very clearly look at their region as a social area and solve social issues, they do not adopt this milking robot, but they do keep people working there and pay their wages. So there is no trend in one, but I think that such stability has been achieved, that a significant reduction in the number of jobs should no longer come.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U43	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your report, you shared information that I would like to clarify. This concerns the WTO's desire to decouple direct payments from agricultural production. How far ahead are we talking about, and what could be its contents? What greater benefit does it bring to the farmland?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U45	Ideally, at some point, the European Union is likely to have taken over production. However, the World Trade Organisation is trying to reallocate things, or put pressure on the European Union, to stop producing so much food for the market, and other member states of the organisation can also offer their own food on the market. At the same time, it is as if we should think more about the environment. Decoupling basically means that if we want support, we are not obliged to produce food in the sense of a particular culture. We can simply keep the land in good agricultural order, mow it or do operations that are significantly less expensive than food production. This process in itself has already come from the level of debate to the fact that the European Union has been given the relevant guidelines.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U46	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Several colleagues have said here and it has been said in the debate that several target groups are not satisfied and the money is, as if, too little. Rather, I have the opposite question: is this rural development plan not too compromise-seeking that, like many other European funds, we are trying to satisfy all parties and, finally, cannot set serious targets enough? If, for example, we look at the dairy strategy of the Estonian state for the years 2012 to 2020 20, can we achieve enough of this strategy with this rural development plan in the next period? Do you consider dairying to be a priority in MAK?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U48	Madam Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs. The Committee on Rural Affairs is the Commission that is also shaping rural policy. How are things possible in Estonia today that we got confirmed by watching TV last night and reading the newspaper today? How is it possible for the owner of the arable land to take EUR 50000 of aid without making a single move? How is this possible in Estonia? The second question is, too. It came about when I read today's newspaper. So how do we take care of the growth when Põltsamaa students are soon unable to participate in the plow competitions because the last Belarus will fall apart? How do these things come together as if there was money, but there's no sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U49	Good colleague Tarmo! As Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, I, too, do not understand how support can be obtained and, at the same time, nothing can be done in the country. We all want the future rural development plan to increase, above all, support for organic production and perhaps to reduce some of the per-hectare support that concerns organic farming. This "Spectator" story yesterday makes us think seriously. This will probably also be discussed in the Ministry, and we will certainly table it in the Committee on Rural Affairs. Now question two. I think that the rural development plan will provide sufficient resources for our research in the next period. The Belarus tractor is not the only one you can drive, although the Tõud farm in Võrumaa is also driven by Belarus. Maybe they'll get a decent tractor for this business school. Perhaps this is also a small ray of hope within the future rural development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U50	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U51	A good committee chairman, a good colleague. Listening to all three of you performing here, the Minister, the Professor and you, it seemed that your story was going through a sad undertone. Perhaps the least of it was in the Minister's presence. We are talking about the development plan, but by numbers, in many areas of life, it is like declining. The biggest decline is that people are being reduced. The professor did not dare to say whether the number of rural inhabitants would be more or less the same in 2020. He had the courage to express a little hope that people would stay on land, that's why we're trying to develop the countryside so that people would live there. Say something encouraging so we can believe that the land will not run dry by 2020!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U52	Dear colleague Lembit! Your questions are always happy to hear, and I'm still looking forward to them. If this concern really did sound, then perhaps the cause was a little anxiety that the Riigikogu's chair would have to come forward with such an important question. In fact, Estonia will receive a total of EUR 6 billion during the financial period, of which roughly 1 billion will be allocated for the implementation of the rural development plan and 1 billion for direct payments. So when you look at the whole package of agriculture, the amount is significant. Of course, we have behind us the previous financial period during which everyone has received something, and maybe that is why a little more expectations have arisen than reality allows. Perhaps because of this, too, there are concerns here and there that we got so much last time, but you see, now this amount is decreasing, because the agricultural area we use is getting bigger and bigger every day. I have heard a forecast that it will grow by about 1.5% a year. This gives producers a little concern. But, dear colleague Lembit, go to a nice farm or farm! You can see there are young men on the tractor wheel, and these young men have big plans. It also gives courage to a little optimism.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U53	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U54	Mr President of the Commission. I have a regional-specific question on this meaningful and substantial presentation of the framework document. What alternative and, in fact, do you see for those islanders who wanted the stone garden measure to continue, but now you heard that it would end?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U55	It would be more appropriate to ask the Minister this question, but I will try to answer it. The measure to build stone gardens really was in the previous period and was used very enthusiastically in our western coastal counties and islands. There is no such measure in the new period. Although it would not want to push all kinds of activities into Leader's field of activity, when this measure is put into the regional Leader strategy, it is possible to support the construction of stone gardens as a means of preserving cultural heritage. But it has to be part of the development plan for a particular county.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U56	Treasure Heinvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U57	Good Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee! I think you are very well suited to introducing the rural development plan in the Riigikogu due to your balance and the willingness to compromise. Co-operation is the highest form of communication. But you didn't explain your personal views in your speech. Perhaps you will mark one or two points of the arsenal of all measures that are especially close to your heart?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U58	Thank you, dear Member of the Commission, Treasure. As I emphasised, I am here as a rapporteur for the Committee on Rural Affairs and I am trying to stay within the limits of what we have agreed in the Commission. With its proposals, everyone can come up with the next round of negotiations. However, I say so much that, in the last financial period, I personally was involved in three project actions. I participated in the village development project, which helped Rõuge's free-willed sprayers get their own production building, my company was able to buy a small tractor thanks to the investment measure and, of course, Leader has benefited. For one rural person, all these measures are well needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U59	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U60	Honourable waitress! We have listened to several presentations here and understood that there is a lot of money coming into agriculture, especially for large businesses. They get a lot of money, they can grow a field with big machines. The Minister of Agriculture said that something new needs to be invented in land use. I'm sure you agree with me that even the Peipsi roll might start growing rice. Many noted the need to keep farms and give them new strength. Was it under discussion in the Commission so that the farms could take the form they used to take? For example, several generations lived together and raised cows. There was a little bit about the sowing allowance. Maybe give the farms we've got a new life and some money, too? Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U61	Thanks, Inara! I say, in that language, that, of course, such stories often occur in the Commission. But if there's any use in that, let's see.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U62	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U63	Get some talk in here, it's not a thing! I'll ask you something important. Rural development means, among other things, that farmers need additional land. Earth has a price. In recent years, I have observed examples of this in Central Estonia, but I think there are still others, that the rental price of the land, especially the purchase price of the land, is incomprehensible to the farmer. I'm not talking about this price being high or low, it's about it being incomprehensible. Specific example: very large farmer, cereal producer, 1000 hectares of land. It would make sense that the price of this land can be obtained by transactions next to the price set, or at least by auction, but no more is taken from the left by some expert who will run something else into the market price. It's a completely unplanned cost! How will the price of land be developed for a producer who wants to expand production?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Professor Värnik! Thank you very much for your presentation. I fully agree with your views. One of your views was that cooperative production and processing are more effective. We have two milk processing cooperatives in Estonia known to have paid the farmer the lowest price of raw milk in previous years. What do you think might be the reason for this? Why is this happening in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U65	Good waitress, thank you for answering those questions you have been asked. Let's move on to the round of questions. Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U66	I have such a general question. There's a lot of talk about fewer people in the country. After all, progress is also being made. If in the old days five hectares were cultivated while working with a horse, now the machine can handle 500 hectares. Perhaps very many people are not needed in this sector. Are you in agreement with this, or are there not enough people in the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U67	Good colleague! The minister reported the exact figures in the round of questions and answers. Indeed, the number of people employed in agriculture has decreased dozens of times over the past decade. As far as I am aware, currently 3 to 4% of the population are employed in agriculture. It is likely that this number will not fall so drastically in the years to come. Of course, more efficient machines and higher productivity are behind it. It is important for the country to create alternative opportunities for people who have been freed from work in the agricultural sector. This is one of the key issues of the RDP.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U68	Good waitress, no more questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Koka, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U69	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia will receive EUR 721 million from the budget of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development in the new period, some of which will be used in accordance with the Council's agreement to compensate for the decrease in direct payments under the first pillar of the CAP in 2014 and 2015. Member States have a mandatory own contribution of 25%. Together with Estonia's participation, the financing volume of the RDP 2014-2020 is 936 million euros, which is the same in size as in the current period. A lot has been asked whether the opinions of all parties have been examined when drafting the new draft MAK. It can be said that the Ministry of Agriculture has set up a steering committee with 29 organisations in order to draw up the Rural Development Plan 2014-2020. They represent agriculture, the environment, forestry, entrepreneurship, local authorities, village movements, local initiative and many other areas. In addition to the organisations represented in the Steering Committee, experts and other people from around 30 other organisations are involved in the expert groups. A total of around 70 steering committees and expert groups have held meetings. If we look at MAK, we are pleased to note that the new development plan contains several measures that will help increase the competitiveness of Estonian agriculture and food production. In the past, more attention has been paid to investments in the processing of agricultural products, which are essential to deserve and market domestic food. The ability of domestic agricultural commodities to compete with imported goods depends directly on investments to modernise primary production. In the new MAK, a strong emphasis is placed on food supply chain-oriented activities aimed at increasing the value of agricultural products on the ground and creating greater added value. One of the objectives of the new MAK is the agricultural sector aimed at viable and sustainable food production. Investment grants focus on long-term investments. It is important that there is coherence and logic between measures, as the needs and opportunities of businesses vary greatly. Beneficiaries of support for investment in agriculture should be active food producers, and long-term investments should certainly give priority to support. Support should be determined on the basis of the main financial indicators, such as the data to be provided to the Statistical Office, the payment of taxes. It is a pleasure to note that the draft has removed the restrictions that would have deprived of investment support from the production companies that provide the majority of Estonian agricultural raw materials. At the same time, it is saddening that in the new period, the budget for investment aid for the development of agricultural production will fall from EUR 191 million to EUR 163 million. Some questions arise when you read the bill. Is it really right that an agricultural undertaking whose income from the sale of agricultural products or products resulting from their processing exceeds only EUR 4000 may receive aid and that an undertaking which has paid social security contributions of at least EUR 380 per year may also receive aid? After all, Estonia has a minimum wage of 320 euros. This makes a minimum annual salary of EUR 3840, which should pay a social tax of EUR 1267 per year. The question remains whether the beneficiary of the investment aid may be a company where social tax is paid less than the minimum wage of one employee. If we look at how animal welfare support is provided for in the draft, we will see that in the new period, operators who have built new free-keeping tables for their cattle flock will be punished. The aim should be to seize as many holdings as possible by means of animal welfare measures, not just to target a small group of operators.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U70	Would you like some extra time? Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U71	During this period, it was also possible to apply for support for the herd if the grazing took place in part. The new rural development plan also calls for 100% grazing of the dairy herd in order to benefit from the aid. However, much more has been done in new farms to improve animal welfare than grazing allows. Animals are free-range and are not forced into the hot sun in the summer. New feeding technologies based on mixer feeding based on a balanced diet have been implemented in the new rooms. During the current budget period, the annual aid for cattle grazing was paid at an average of EUR 59 per livestock unit. For the new period, a payment of up to EUR 500 per bovine animal has been planned. This money buys young cattle, herds them for two years and makes 100% profit on it. Is there economic justification for such a high level of support? However, if 100% of the grazing requirement remains valid, it will exclude the aid in 95% of the dairy cows in Estonia. In the new MAK, more attention will be paid to joint actions and different forms of cooperation, both by providing for different measures and by providing different incentives within the actions. Joint action is an important outlet for small farmers, in particular, who find it difficult to successfully manage pre-sales preparation, processing and marketing of their products on their own because of limited resources. It is a pleasure to note that much more attention has been paid to R &amp; D and innovation. The aim is to strengthen cooperation between producers and researchers and to encourage the practical exploitation of research results. Working cooperation between the producer, processor, advisor and researcher together with up-to-date research and development and knowledge transfer are the key objectives of the development plan. If you look at environmental support, there are several new specific environmental support, regional soil protection support and environmentally friendly horticultural support in the new MAK. The scope of several ongoing environmental support is greater than in the current period. More attention will be paid to the environment and resource saving within the framework of the various measures. Among other things, support for agricultural investment will encourage environmental investments, such as the introduction of bioenergy and the establishment of manure storage facilities. If you look at organic operators, the number of organic farmers has grown strongly in recent years. In view of the limited budget of the development plan, organic production should aim at the economic sustainability of organic producers, the productivity of organic farming and the delivery of organic products to consumers. The most important trends in the next MAK are the move from non-refundable to forms of support requiring return. As a new element, various financial instruments in the form of guarantees and loans have been included in the development plan. I hope that this change will improve access to capital for farmers and other rural operators and prepare producers for possible reductions in payments in the coming periods. Finally, it is important that local development decisions are left to local people. At local level, local needs and the potential to meet them are best known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U72	Thank you very much. I'm asking for Kalev Eagle in the chair! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U73	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of rural areas, we mean about 90% of Estonia's territory and about 300,000 people. It's such a big part of our country and people that dealing with this part of the future shouldn't be a seizure, a campaign. The rural population lives in their home 365 days a year, and it is sad that we deal with rural problems in depth only every seven years in the preparation of the rural development plan and in the final months of every fourth year, or just before the elections. This is a particularly blessed moment, for both causes are combined. The draft rural development plan for the next financial period of the European Union has generally been drawn up following good practice on inclusion. There have been public debates. It is always better, but there is no reason to claim that the golden rules of democratic decision-making have been violated. In fact, the process is still under way and before MAK is approved by the government at the end of this year, changes can still be made at least theoretically are possible. The great interest of the public and interest groups in the draft MAK is well-founded, as the majority of the active rural people in the country over the next seven years are largely dependent on the funding of MAK. At the same time, it is clear that only with euro money will we not solve all the problems in the country and that money must also be contributed from other sources to the development of rural areas. The preparation of the MAK is a very serious and voluminous work and the search for infinite compromises between different stakeholders, as well as between needs and opportunities. The Social Democrats recognise the work and effort done by the draft of the current MAK, but consider it important to draw attention to the following points. Firstly, MAK must not amplify conflicts between large and small farmers, because Estonia's rural and food security needs both of them. Secondly, the MAK must not oppose agriculture and other rural areas. The current relationship between the first and second pillars well reflects our current reality and needs. In the opinion of the Socialists, further consideration should be given to the following issues when dealing with the rural development plan. Firstly, support for the maintenance of semi-natural communities and Natura 2000 support for private forest land and arable land are necessary measures, but they should be financed not by MAK, but by other amounts for environmental protection. Secondly, the overall increase in support for organic farming is welcome, but it should also extend to organic permanent grassland with animals accounting for 0,2 livestock units per hectare. The three-fold reduction proposed in the draft is not justified; the current innovation could put the state's obligation to maintain permanent grassland at risk. Thirdly, more attention must be paid to the supply chains of agricultural production, in particular to shortening them, as well as to a fairer distribution of income within the supply chain. Fourthly, we need to define who is meant by an active farmer. This would prevent support money from flowing to mowing armchair farmers. In particular, in order to ensure a certain level of national food security and self-sufficiency, real food producers and sellers of their products should be supported, rather than support-oriented substitution activities. Fifthly, an increase in the volume of the Leader measure from EUR 85,7 million to EUR 93,6 million, while the village development measure is being terminated, reduces the total amount of funds intended to promote local life. In the final financial period, there was more of this money. According to the Socialists, the funding of village communities should at least maintain the level of the financial period that ends. Sixthly, the MAK measures should support the 'Estonian Food' programme that has stopped, which would help increase the consumption of local food. Seventhly, in the MAK draft, the volume of investment grants is 30 million euros smaller than in the current period. For the future and competitiveness of Estonian agriculture, we consider it important to increase investment support instead. The financial instruments planned in the draft MAK are not investment aid in the classical sense of this term. As hindsight, one could only guess how much easier it would have been to draft the MAK bill if we had a development plan for Estonian agriculture based on sectoral strategies, such as the dairy strategy that we already have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U74	Good colleague Igor! How do I tell you now? Maybe you know that we have a free market economy in Estonia. [[???Vahelehõige: 'Oli!'???]] Was? Well, he is now, and that's how the price in the market is going to be. Indeed, the price of land has perhaps increased with the expectation of future larger direct payments. This has significantly increased the price in recent years. In spring, the Committee on Rural Affairs proposed to the European Union Affairs Commission to apply, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, for a State aid authorisation for the purchase of land for our farmers. Unfortunately, this proposal crammed between the walls of the Committee on European Union Affairs. I think at some point in x, we could put this proposal back on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U75	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U76	Personally, it seems to me that this will certainly have some effect. Let us be honest, many small producers do not produce but rent land to larger producers. Such an innovation is likely to lead to the expectation that the same smaller producers who will receive this aid will no longer want to lease their land to larger producers. I'm sure there's some questioning here. I think that, as a whole, direct payments that are not directly linked to the production obligation and that we are trying to create some added value in the country are not very sensible. So the short answer is that this certainly affects the ability of food farmers to use the land.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U77	Sure. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U78	However, the growth of companies must not conflict with the environment and the community. You would think that a citizen of his own country would also hold more environment and residence as an entrepreneur and respect the community. The more entrepreneurs we have who can be masters, the more the region is developing. Estonia's land and forests should belong to the owner of Estonia. The land is the main resource for food production in particular, so the profits obtained should remain with the local owner, who maintains and preserves the land. The removal of profits should be avoided in every way. Since rural development depends to a large extent on the quality of human capital, knowledge transfer and advice must make a significant contribution to improving it. Rural development needs to adapt to change. The sooner we can reach reasonable agreements and make the necessary decisions, the sooner we can start a real rural development process. Finally, I will highlight five main points that we should consider to be important in our future discussions. Firstly, I do not consider it economically feasible/necessary to change the structure of agricultural production. Secondly, diversification of rural businesses is important, but this should also be done largely through other state budget instruments or projects. Thirdly, productivity must increase in all areas of rural enterprise. Fourthly, in the coming period, our aim should be to increase the added value of research and consultation. Fifthly, let us value our country's land, people and cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U79	Thank you, Professor. You have questions too. Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for this review. It is clear that the common agricultural policy is based on rural support for businesses and, on the other hand, on rural development. As we all know, the common goal is regionally balanced development, which ensures equal opportunities for everyone in different parts of Estonia for life and activities. You also called for cooperation between different ministries and branches here. How do you assess branch activities, regional policy, agricultural policy in our rural key?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U81	The subject is certainly much wider than I opened here today. I would first like to come back to this first point. I think that when we talk about state reform, that is one thing. However, specific functions, which are a function of local government and which are a function of the State, should be shared, and specific sources of funding and responsibility should also be identified. This creates a situation where local authorities in the region either have a desire to develop entrepreneurship or do not. The second issue is that although we have several other ministries involved in the Rural Development Plan Steering Committee, such as the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of the Environment, for some reason, everyone is trying to solve all rural problems only through the rural development plan, which does not make sense. This is absolutely not the right approach. A compromise should be sought on how to solve rural problems also through other EU funds. We need to tackle many other rural problems, both social, cultural and educational. These are a little bit deeper than MAK today. As I said, the agricultural policy, the common agricultural policy, the second pillar that we are talking about today, all of which are still largely linked to the development of agriculture.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U82	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Professor Värnik! In the last Agriculture and Rural Development Council, the Minister proposed to pay 30% higher aid for the first 39 hectares, which in itself is a very nice bend towards smaller and medium-sized producers. How do you feel as an economist, does such an innovation affect the rental market for agricultural land and, therefore, the overall competitiveness of farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U84	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U85	My answer is that the culture, responsibility and, in fact, the objectives of the cooperative are topics that need to be negotiated in Estonia. Often, cooperative owners want short-term benefits. They may fail to think twice about the long-term benefits that might arise if prices change in the market. If, at one point, the price is good, then it does not make sense to step out of the cooperative immediately, but to think ahead of time. The strategy should operate in the long term, the benefits and disadvantages need to be combined in order to find out how much of the cooperative will eventually have this benefit. Or another: at one point, if the price is good on the market or on the stock market, I'm leaving the cooperative and I think I can handle it myself. These are inconsistencies between short-term and long-term strategic objectives. However, I am absolutely convinced that if the cooperative functions properly, all the principles have been set and managed by a decent person, the manager is very important here, then the main goal of the manager must be to stand up for the interests of his cooperative, i.e. to protect the interests of his members, farmers. If all of this works, hopefully it will not happen that only short-term benefits will be sought.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U86	The first half of the answer is that if you think about MAK, it definitely shouldn't solve all the issues. The aim should still be to achieve economic competitiveness, i.e. to develop entrepreneurship. If I look, on the other hand, that about 30 million goes to Natura sites, which are sensible and which are certainly a very important issue, if the country has decided that at one point, then it actually comes at the expense of something, in other words, it comes at the expense of competitiveness. These are the bottlenecks. I do believe that achieving economic sustainability, boosting competitiveness should be the main objective and also the social aspect. But I cannot agree in any way that the environment is in such a bad condition in Estonia that so much money has to be put on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U87	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U88	Mr President! Good waitress! In this debate, it turned out that there has been some decrease in support for small businesses. How do you feel about municipalities currently using Leader money to a very large extent to carry out their tasks? Perhaps a much larger share of Leader funding should be invested in entrepreneurship, which would create jobs in the region?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U89	Thank you. As I said in my presentation, the position of Leader must definitely change, i.e. the role of business-oriented activities must increase. The fact that local authorities are trying to develop some of their activities is certainly important for the region. But I would still say that priorities should be ranked in such a way that jobs first and then everything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U90	Treasure Heinvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Good Professor, thank you so much for your presentation. You stopped reporting on land ownership relations. The success of the Estonian economy, as is often emphasised, is openness. At present, there are no substantive restrictions on the acquisition of the land either by the parties to the contract or by third countries, while this openness leads to investment opportunities. Do you think that openness is an opportunity or a risk in the Estonian rural context?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U92	Thank you. That's a good question! I think it's more of a risk. I'm sure it's an opportunity. As I said, it doesn't matter who owns the land when capital gains are earned from it and people get jobs. At the same time, I also see the land as a geostrategic property. If the identity of one country is a land and if there is no land, there will soon be no country.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U93	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U94	Thank you. Honourable Professor! You have studied rural entrepreneurship, the rural economy and rural areas a lot and are very well aware of the challenges facing rural areas. In your speeches, you often stress that developing entrepreneurship in the countryside is the only way. Can you tell us what business areas should be in which enterprising people should contribute to the sustainability of the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U95	Thank you. One area is certainly the activities related to the development of agricultural commodities, i.e. how we can add maximum value to our raw materials and ultimately sell it to export markets. The question is that we should look at what kind of resource we have and what we can use from there, first in terms of food production and food processing and deserving. It is certainly also possible to develop tourism, but this must be done in a wider country, because we need to bring more consumers there. I do not underestimate the IT sector and its possibilities at all, and this is of course necessary as an application, but in the meantime we overstated it. The IT sector is essential to enable certain processes to be accelerated. Various IT opportunities also need to be developed. We have a very good example, childish.ee, which we all know and which carries on farms or even rural areas. Such ideas could certainly be further developed and needed as a whole. When I talk to entrepreneurs, they say give me ideas that should be done. Money isn't a question, it's an idea. And here should actually come to the aid of a university that has laboratories and offers new opportunities that could be done in rural areas with some resources. There is no one answer. Diversified entrepreneurship, which leads to our reaching export markets, is actually the most important thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U96	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Professor, thank you for your presentation. In the case of a development plan, however, we are talking a lot about money and investment. You can't get over it, you can't get around it, and here's the question. Do you think it is right that everyone is receiving investment support, including, for example, those farms receiving a side income from agriculture, for which agriculture is not the main activity, who do not pay taxes directly on this activity and who do not have any impact on employment in this sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U98	Thank you. Here is the question of what is the purpose. If we have an economic objective, the answer is that we should not. In social terms, however, every small farm in the rural area is important, so every smoke. Therefore, I would point out that if the farm produces and is able to give at least two people a year-round job, it should have an equal opportunity to receive investment support. In other words, in view of the economic objective, the grant should certainly be linked to the fact that the beneficiary also has economic capacity, otherwise we are simply talking about social assistance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U99	Thank you, Professor, for your presentation and your answers. I now request the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee, Kalvi Tõik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U100	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Rural Affairs, I would like to thank Professor Rando Värnik for a very nice and meaningful presentation, thank you to the Minister, who gave us a thorough overview of the state of implementation of the rural development plan, and thank you also to the Committee on Rural Affairs for coming to the idea of having such a debate in the big Chamber today. As a result of the discussion, some members of the Riigikogu became wiser. Perhaps earlier it was not known that real money would be distributed under the RDP, that it was not just a development document, but that it would distribute EUR 936 million for rural development over the next seven years. Perhaps there was news to some members of the Riigikogu that there would be money from the first pillar, which would be over EUR 1 billion. Of course, this money will promote the whole rural area to a very significant extent. In order to prepare the rural development plan, representatives of 29 organisations from the steering committee were gathered. As Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, I can say that it was very sensible of the Ministry that such a large part of the sector was involved in the development plan. Our committee has also tried to be very inclusive in its actions so that all parties can have their say. The Committee on Rural Affairs has discussed this issue in almost 20 sessions, involving several organisations, from the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade to the goat farmers' association. The expectations of the new MAK are very different, but it's not like MAK is connected to vessels: if you put more, you have to take away somewhere. It is probably known that the rural development plan is a document that we do not endorse here in the Riigikogu. We can only be policy leaders by discussing the issue in political groups. It has to be said that the drafting of this MAK has been doing quite well, according to the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu. There was a small setback in spring, which we discussed in our committee. Indeed, when the rural development plan was drawn up, there were no Natura payments for agricultural and forestry land, but at some point they came up with it. There was a lot of confusion in the sector, and as a result, as far as I know, the conservationists have left the table of the MAK Steering Committee. The Rural Affairs Committee held a public hearing to discuss this issue, to which we also invited all members of the Riigikogu. Many of you were there. The session was held on 11 June, and that is where the idea of having today's debate in this large hall grew. As is appropriate for the Commission rapporteur, I must give you an overview of what was born in the Commission. Let me say a few words about the problems that were brought to us in this sitting. Roomet Sõrmus, who was the representative of the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce, proposed to focus primarily on the investment support measure. In conclusion, it can be said that it believes that investment aid should be higher for food producers, especially for more efficient producers. It did not agree with the proposal to reduce the volume of investment aid from 191 million to 160 million euros in the new period. He confirmed that the investment needs in this sector were very high. Around EUR 180 million should be invested in dairy shops alone, as well as young cattle farms, pigs, beef farms, dryers, smaller machinery, etc. Of course, there were representatives of the government who provided answers to the questions of the Ring of Roomet. I'm not going to read them here. Roomet Ring also criticised the implementation of the financial instrument. He thought we didn't have enough information on that instrument yet. I know the Ministry is working to better share this information. Kaul Nurm, the representative of the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, stressed that the development plan must be analysed in conjunction with the first and second pillars. That really makes sense. According to Kaul Nurme, it is very important to set the right focus, taking into account both global developments, we know that the population is increasing, the area of the cultivated land and the water resources are decreasing, while the food security of Estonia is, of course, decreasing. He stressed that it was the existence of farms and farming that provides a very strong basis for the security of our country. In this way, the rural development plan must be a balancing force that also takes into account the interests of small and medium-sized farmers. It should support three components of sustainable development: competitiveness, environmental sustainability and social impact. Juhan Särgava of the Estonian Farmers' Confederation made quite the same proposals as the Roomet Ring from the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade, but he stressed that during the new period we should reduce red tape more seriously when implementing the rural development plan. I think everyone in this room is gonna sign it with two hands. Juhan Särtava is a organic producer and thought that organic farming aid per hectare and per producer should not be reduced in the next budget period. We know there's more organic land coming all the time. I would also like to highlight the concerns of Estonian pig farmers. In the past financial period, pig farmers were in a slightly worse position than other producers. They had to benefit from the cereal subsidies, but this was not the case. Raul Maripuu from the Breeding Association of Estonian Breeders stressed that the situation of Estonian pig farming is complicated and that more money would be needed now. In order to maintain and increase competitiveness, it is precisely those pig farmers who themselves do not have arable land that need to receive more investment aid, because it is through farmland support that the aid comes from the first pillar. Riho Kaselo Viru, of the Meat Association, suggested that other options, such as a sow premium, could be considered. Of course, it was also rural as a whole. During this period, the village movement and village development measure will be reduced. The volume of Leader does not compensate for the part by which the village development measure decreases. The representative of the Leader Estonian Forum, Reet Kokovkin, and the representative of the village movement Kodukant, Eha Paas, drew attention to this. Aleksei Lotman, the representative of the House of Environmental Associations, was also at our table, who said clearly that when measures on environmentally friendly management are restored, they will in any case be in the boat and will be part of the rural development plan. All kinds of renewable energy issues, such as how our tourism farms and small producers could use a variety of alternative energy sources, were discussed very thoroughly. We were also talking about tourism. The representative of Estonian Rural Tourism Riili Mengel-Sünt stressed that professional advice is really needed in the rural tourism sector. This is in order to reduce seasonality, as well as to increase the competitiveness of our tourism companies, as it is a very important industry in rural areas. As you can see, the representatives of each sector have their own wishes and their own particularities. We are probably all concerned about rural development and wish to promote the production of Estonian food. The rural development plan must be, and is, Estonia's provider of rural stabilisation and certainty. At the same time, we must all work together to achieve a time when European funds for the development of our rural areas will no longer be allocated so much. I dare say that, thanks to the broad involvement of the target groups, a rural development plan document has now been drawn up on the basis of which a balance has been struck between efficient large production and the needs of sustainable small households. In other words, you can hear the noise of the tractor, the squeak of the village, and the sound of the morning's roar. I believe that the debate in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu helped to understand the remaining unresolved problems that are currently on the table. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Rural Affairs thanks you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U101	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a speech chair at Meelis Mälberg! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In the coming months, the Government of the Republic will approve the Estonian Rural Development Plan for the years 2014 to 2020. The negotiations will then begin with the European Commission for its final approval. I am very pleased that we are discussing the rural development plan here today in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu and are doing so as a matter of national importance. And for a number of reasons. Firstly, according to the agreement of the European Council, Estonia will have EUR 5.89 billion of European taxpayers' money in the years 2014 to 2020. This is almost 907 million more than the 2007-2013 budget. Estonia is one of the few Member States whose net position is improving. One of the biggest winners is our farmers, as the European Union's support for Estonian agriculture grows by 41%. In the budget for the new period, the total amount of direct payments will double and, if taken into account per hectare, this will amount to 75% of the European Union average by 2020. The volume of the rural development plan, together with Estonia's own contribution, is 936 million euros. This important document will determine the fate of almost 1/10 European funds for the next seven years. It is very important that the use of such large sums of money has been well considered, discussed and in the wider sense enhances Estonia's competitiveness. Secondly, it is symbolic that the Riigikogu discusses the rural development plan as an important national issue. Although agriculture, food production and environmental protection play a major role in this development plan, it is, as the name suggests, a rural development plan. The content of the rural area has long ceased to be farming, livestock farming or forestry. In these areas, technological and technical progress has led to the physical loss of heavy and labour-intensive manual work. Today, the number of people employed in the same production volume as traditional land works is much lower, and these people do their work mostly with high-tech equipment. So the demands on the worker are quite different than a few decades ago. By supporting the traditional rural economy as a business, we must not forget the need to enrich rural areas with different forms of enterprise. I don't want to agree with the Minister in any way. The tourism sector certainly has potential if added value is created, local food is deserved and other local opportunities and resources are exploited. Tourism entrepreneurship is one way to live and work in the country, at least to find a good and rewarding activity for your family. How else can we create opportunities for new jobs? How to bring entrepreneurial people to the country and encourage them to set up new businesses? How can we keep young families in place so that their children are born and raised in the countryside? It is a major challenge to help people go along with the changed circumstances in a way that also ensures a decent income. That is why, as I said, it is very important, even with a signicant meaning that rural issues are being discussed here in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. I very much enjoyed the statement of a good colleague, Tiina Lokk-Tramberg, who represents PÖFF for many, after one meeting with interest groups on the rural development plan. He said that he could never again fight for cultural preferential funding, as he has done so far. You can't because there are a lot of interest groups and resources in the field of culture, but the painting is more mixed and complicated. If even a few colleagues, after this debate in this Chamber, understand better the challenges facing the rural development agenda, today has come to the fore. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the rural development plan cannot be to distribute money as evenly as possible across the country in such a way that all beneficiaries are as satisfied as possible, or so that there is no dissatisfaction. Such a plan would not succeed, because there is always a limited amount of money, although it is impossible to allocate EUR 1 billion under the plan. However, with this billion, it is certainly not possible to fix the whole of Estonia and to make all Estonians happy. Inevitably, we must set priorities and make choices. According to the Reform Party, the use of the rural development plan, as well as the total euro money, has been included in the objective of preparing Estonia in the future without euro support. It is already necessary to use every cent of the European Union, as if we were using Estonia's own money. Each euro must be geared towards productivity growth, increasing added value and improving competitiveness and ensuring sustainable development. Of course, we can only do this by using the environment and resources in a sustainable way. All of this must ultimately give our people the opportunity to cope in every village in Estonia and ensure a decent income after 2020, when the euro subsidies are very likely to decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U103	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a speech chair in Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Professor! Good guests on the balcony, who are interested in rural issues and will be here today! I am very pleased that the rural development plan is being discussed as an important national issue in this large Chamber. In the Committee on Rural Affairs, we have dealt with the issues related to this development plan on quite a number of occasions, and we have had a number of interest groups to talk about our concerns about the rural development plan. Unfortunately, the hands of our committee are rather short, we cannot change much. But when we last discussed the preparations for today, we realized that, in fact, it will also be useful if one of our colleagues in this Chamber thinks more about rural areas, about financing it. And when the up-to-date information gets out of here, it's gonna be really good. The CAP is already over 50 years old. It has been considered a pretty important policy in the European Union and Estonia has had a chance to benefit greatly from it. The rural development plan is an important part of this. It is right that European taxpayers pay for the common agricultural policy, but they also consume all the good that the agricultural sector produces. We also consider it very important that the farmer is more valued throughout this whole food chain. He must be treated as an important partner, for where does this raw material come from, if not from the farmer? I very much hope that this principle has been respected in the preparation of MAK. It seems that the whole process has gone quite democratically, with no limitation on anyone's participation. But what is the result, it is too early to talk about it, because the process is not yet complete. I certainly support the view of many previous speakers that MAK must not create a conflict between small and large areas of activity in rural areas and, of course, not between urban and rural areas. I agree very much with the views that Aivar Chef has just spoken out of this remote control. I am not going to repeat all this, but I am saying that we are concerned that 30 million have disappeared from investments by food producers compared to the current period. I'm sure it'll make food producers feel that way. It is true that the Minister is here talking about a financial instrument that is planned to target 65 million. In itself, this is quite a sensible solution, given that in the next period, i.e. after 2020, the EU's money will have to be reduced. However, the conditions of this financial instrument are not particularly open to the sector. It is not exactly understood why, who, how much and under what conditions this financial instrument can be used. We look forward to that explanation. I would also like to say that such a financial instrument is not a substitute for irrecoverable aid. The proposal to allow farmers to buy land on the basis of the rural development plan has already been addressed here. It is interesting to know whether this is a minister's hypocrisy. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U105	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U106	The government has supported it, the Committee on Rural Affairs has supported it, but the coalition party of the Commission on European Union Affairs did not support it. True, they voted for some reason, with their eyes down, they didn't have the courage to look over the table. We do not know exactly where this view comes from. The Minister has later commented on this in such a way that other countries in Europe wish that we did not want exceptions. I don't know about that. Maybe with the help of the others, we can get that chance. It's very welcome, of course, when it's gonna be. I would also like to mention the creation of a cooperative measure, which is also very sensible. But here we now have to think about how to ensure that opening up such a cooperative measure does not create unequal competition among processors, particularly in the field of industry. Of course, with regard to MAK, the continuation of the 'Estonian Food' programme must be emphasised. When we are talking about organic products, organic food accounts for 1 to 1.5% of our market, according to the Food Association. It is being promoted very little, and support for organic production is also completely out of place. This remote control has today been cited as an example of organic production in a very popular TV show. Of course, it was embarrassing to watch, you can't deny it. That's why I'm putting the hearts of MAK's makers in order for them to pay more attention to such nuances. The value of young farmers in the rural development plan is very welcome. At the same time, it is unclear whether only young beginners or young people who are already engaged in farming will be supported. The issue needs very much attention because we are constantly complaining that many are losing their business in agriculture and the main reason has been to retire. Young people mostly engage in urban activities. In this sense, there is a need to assist in this area. There wasn't much to talk about, but anyway, thank you for today! Thank you very much to all of you who have endured in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U107	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We have finished discussing the key national question 'Estonian Rural Development Plan 2014 to 2020'. We take note of the information we have received. Thank you to all participants.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U108	We will go to the next item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the Bill 440 of the Law of Succession initiated by the Government of the Republic, the notary's remuneration for the amendment of the Law and the Law of Notariales, and the related amendment of other laws. Since it is a draft which requires a majority of the votes in its composition for approval, a verification of its presence must be carried out. Let's get ready for this. Please, Ene Ergma!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U109	Perhaps the representatives of the political groups would like to make a statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U110	I'll invite the people to the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U111	No, the first question to be asked is in accordance with our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U112	Okay, I'll take it from here. Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the political groups like to speak? There are no requests to speak. I'll invite the people to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, we are preparing to vote on the second item in the debate. Before the vote, we must carry out a verification of our presence. 67 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 34 are missing. Good Riigikogu, the proposal of the commission is to adopt the draft as a law. I am voting on the draft law on succession initiated by the Government of the Republic, the notary's remuneration for the amendment of the law and the notarial law and related amendments to other laws 440. Please take a stand and vote. 66 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-26_U113	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. As this, too, is a draft which requires a majority in composition, we are once again carrying out a verification of our presence. Honourable Riigikogu, please make a presence check! 68 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 33. Honourable Riigikogu, the commission's proposal is to approve this bill. I am voting on the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 441. Please take a stand and vote. 64 parliamentarians voted in favour of the draft, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is exhausted. Thank you all for your participation and I wish you a beautiful day. See you next week! Closure of the sitting at 12.32 p.m.
