ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 46 members of the Riigikogu registered as present and 55 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Ladies and gentlemen, since there are a lot of questions today, with a total of nine questions, I can only afford two issues registered on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U2	Let's get to the first question. This will be presented by my colleague, Mrs Vassilyev, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U3	Good Prime Minister! My question concerns a non-profit organisation with which you are closely involved and which is called the Reform Party. A number of questions have arisen in connection with the e-vote of the Reform Party. The Law on Non-profit Associations provides that the decision of the general meeting is adopted if more than half of the members present vote in favour of it. If the person concerned is chosen, the person who receives the most votes shall be deemed to be elected. How do you feel about the e-vote, which is not included in the statute of the Reform Party, in accordance with the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U4	Yes, both the preliminary and the inland elections comply with the law. When you just referred to the law, you weren't precise. You spoke about the persons present, not the persons attending the meeting. In parallel with the Commercial Code, the Commercial Code regulates procedures much more specifically than the Law on Non-profit Associations. It can be concluded that the legislator has considered it necessary to regulate in sufficient detail the organisation of company meetings and the holding of voting, while leaving the decision-making of NGOs largely in the hands of the governing bodies. And as I said, the NGOs are also talking about the people who attended the meeting. For example, Paragraph 1701 (2) of the Commercial Code provides that the shareholder who has voted electronically shall be deemed to be a member of the meeting and that the votes represented by the shareholder's share shall be included in the quorum of the meeting. Thus, the interpretation of participating in the meeting in Estonian law is much wider than physically sitting in one particular room and one chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U5	Please, Mr Vasilyev, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U6	You were talking about companies now, but the party is a non-profit organisation. All of this may indeed apply to public limited liability companies and private limited liability companies, but unfortunately it cannot be extended to non-profit institutions. For example, if a member of the management board is to be entered in the register, the registry department of the court will also ask for the signatures of the participants in the general meeting. How has the Reform Party submitted these e-voting people's signatures to the Court Registry?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U7	Basically, those who vote with an ID-card give their digital signature using the ID-card and the PIN2 code. Those who vote on a mobile phone with a mobile ID, just as they identify themselves, sign it. And those who identify themselves using a password card do the same thing they do when they enter the bank. There, too, is a person's identification required. It is possible to sign a single payment order in a number of ways.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U8	Please, Mr Vasiliev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U9	I want to make sure I understand your point correctly. Taking practice as the criterion of truth, life has shown that identification of individuals in the e-vote of the Reform Party has not been the safest. The Reform Party itself has also publicly recognised this and, as we know, excluded at least one member of its own. There's a member who's stepped out of there on his own, or maybe there's more of them today, as far as I know. Do you still equate the Reform Party's unsafe e-vote with, for example, a vote using an ID card or a mobile ID signature?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U10	No, I do not tend to equate the vote on an inland waterway with a secure identification system at all. One non-profit organisation must also have room for confidence in the organisation of its internal procedures. It is certainly not possible to regulate everything administratively in one political party or, more generally, in a non-profit organisation, as if the members of a single free association are moving into some high-walled labyrinth, where absolutely everything has been written down and where trust has no place. A thief is a thief. There is no point in trying to apologize for all cases of theft by not keeping the property well enough. Somehow, it has proved possible to commit a crime, so those who have not committed a crime but have been stolen from should somehow be guilty of it. I don't know if you have this bad experience, but there are plenty of people in Estonia. If the thieves have invaded your apartment or your house, it's messed up, I don't think you should face any more accusations that you've allowed the thief to invade your property. The culprit will be punished, even if he has used a stranger's identity evilly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U11	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U12	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers. Here's the question. First of all, there's a lot of thieves in your party. Several development leaders have now resigned and stepped out of the party. And not only this time, but also during the previous internal elections, there was cheating. As you can read from the comments now, the press has not yet reached your IT boys, or boys with pats. Who knows what kind of tricks they've done on the servers. You have repeatedly emphasised that you cannot compare the internal voting of the squirrel network to e-elections within the country. Would you briefly explain your reasoning as to why these elections cannot be compared? Why is it difficult to cheat on the central server during the Riigikogu elections when it can be done on the squirrel network of the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U13	It's not like there's been so many thieves in the Reform Party! We are talking about four or five people, and I am quite convinced that the remaining 13,000 party members have no reason to blame for the same sins and abuses that these four or five people did. Generalisations are out of place. I remember an article by the Estonian Express about criminals who participated in the total collection of the Centre Party and voted actively there, but I am far from the idea that the Centre Party is a party of criminals. If you generalize your way, you might come to this point, but I don't think that's possible in my own case. The voting system of one non-profit organisation, one party, does not have to be as secure as the national electoral system. The national electoral system, let us admit, has cost a lot, it is extremely safe. The method of identification is also highly secure, audited by a number of independent auditors. But as I have already said, and as your party chairman confirms, there must be a place of trust in the party. A lot has been said that the Reform Party should now tighten its authentication rules and change the electoral system significantly. Yeah, I've said that, too, but under the current circumstances, if you leave everything as it is, there's hardly anyone left to use a stranger's identity for selfish purposes. The lesson has been learned, and for some, the lesson has been extremely painful. I'm sure no one will do anything like that again.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U14	Now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, colleague Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U15	Prime Minister! In order for me to understand the matter, and it seems to me that some of my fellow Members do not understand it very well, perhaps you can explain which method of election is, in your opinion, safer and easier to detect fraud, electronic or paper voting?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U16	Undoubtedly, an electronic vote, including the inland waterway vote, where identity was stolen using foreign passwords, is safer than voting on paper ballots. We know how voting on paper ballots is done in the political parties' practice. Young people sit at the table, the person comes, they hand him over to the polls, he signs. If later the real Jaan Kask comes and says he hasn't voted yet, it's impossible to find out who was sitting at the table at the time and giving the false Kasele note. In the electronic system, all log files have been stored and all transactions can be traced precisely from the computer and made at day and time. It is a much safer system if it is possible to create paper ballots.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U18	The next question is from my colleague, Mailis Reps, to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U19	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Good Minister of Finance! From a pretty interesting subject, let's go to another interesting subject. Indeed, if we look at European self-governance policy and certainly also the practice of individual European countries in this area, then step by step, over the last few or thirty years, we have moved towards partnership and trusting each other, and so has funding. Our Supreme Court has also pointed out the need for local governments to have a certain financial manoeuvring space so that they have enough money to carry out their duties. The Ministry of Education and Research has now proposed a completely new approach, according to which local authorities are given very little say in funding education, with all the lines being written in advance. I'm interested in the opinion of the Treasury Department.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U20	A very important question indeed. I must admit that we have not yet agreed on a final solution with the Minister of Education. This is clearly an optimization task: on the one hand, there is a need to make effective the use of a very large amount of education budget, on the other hand, the autonomy of local authorities must be protected and risks must be avoided, which could endanger their finances in general. And not just their finances, but all their public finances. That's what we're arguing about right now. As a member of the Committee on Culture, I assume you know about the model proposed by the Minister of Education as a new one. My offer is different, and right now I think it's better. But we'll probably argue in the cabinet tomorrow. The idea of the Minister of Education is based on the average number of students in the municipality and population density on average, which, as a large generalisation, may be logical, but in a specific situation impossible and very burdensome for the municipality. In any case, we must eliminate these risks.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U21	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U22	Good Minister, you referred to two separate issues in your response. One is the completely new approach proposed by the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, which perhaps eliminates the so-called lever for funding education and science. As far as local authorities and mainly general education are concerned, all the elements which have so far been organised in accordance with the practice of at least the last 20 years so that the local authorities can also have sufficient financial space for carrying out their assigned duties, on the basis of which they can make their own decisions, in accordance with the State funding, of course. Has such a principled political position been discussed in the Government of the Republic that the funding of education no longer leaves the local government with its own discretion, with the exception of its own revenue base?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U23	This is one aspect of this whole issue, and I hope that tomorrow we will have it at the government's table. In this regard, my feelings are different again. I do not in any way rule out the autonomy of municipalities in the organisation of the educational network being restricted. This cannot, in principle, be ruled out in the event that the system is overpowering someone, as it tends to be in many cases, and when it is seen that restructuring is needed to ensure the quality of education. I will certainly try to support this principle in every way. But on the other hand, it must not be possible for local leaders to be put in an inescapable position. We need to ensure that no one is overfunded because of the wrong financing model, that is, the waster, which, by the way, is also a risk, and, on the other hand, that, in the absence of options, local governments are told that if you want to do something, you have to look for cover somewhere else. It can't be like that. So we have a rather difficult task and I know that the Committee on Culture has worked very hard to discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U24	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U25	Minister of Finance! If I may, I would like to go to the cooperation agreements between the Government of the Republic and local governments. Since the adoption of the new Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in 2010, the subject of the agreement between the Government of the Republic and local governments has been not only the minimum wage rates for teachers, transport, textbooks, certainly school food and investment support, but also support services. We are talking about logos, school psychologists, special and social pedagogues. The reason is that we have specified and added additional responsibilities for support services through the new Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. At the same time, it was agreed that the state would allow part of the education money to be used to finance support services, which most municipalities do. Now the new law will change that. Has this been negotiated in the Government of the Republic, despite previous agreements?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U26	In general, yes. But I am not familiar with all the latest developments in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act here in the Riigikogu and I am not familiar with the details of this law either. We are looking more closely at things that are more critical from a financial point of view. In principle, however, we have the will to increase teachers' salaries and to increase the efficiency of the use of money. If wages cannot be raised simply by improving efficiency, this must be done at the expense of something else, then a more precise definition of teachers' salaries must be made. But all these details, of course, are complex and, at present, I think they are best handled by your committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U27	I would like to ask a question registered on the spot, Mr Tarmo Tamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U28	Minister of Finance! The new PGS provides for the establishment of one state secondary school in each county. I ask you such a question. Does the Ministry of Finance provide for additional money to support these state secondary schools and, at the same time, do the municipalities in which the state secondary school is built have to give up part of their income because it is quite a gift to these municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U29	I lost the end of the question for acoustic reasons, but the model for financing state secondary schools has such a small sway. Even in the case of changes, of course, ideal compliance with the existing situation will never be achieved. Somewhere somebody's gotta get something a little tighter. But we're working on all this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U30	Now the last issue registered on the spot. Mr Lembit Kaljuvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U31	Good minister! My question concerns the second additional question to Mr Malis. You said that if there is not enough pay for teachers, you should look for them with more pay from other sources. That is the case now, the Minister of Education, according to my understanding, wants to take this money at the expense of specialists who need children with special needs, to put the salaries of these specialists into the hands of the municipalities. I'm afraid if the municipalities can't do that, these specialists will just disappear from the schools. Is my fear justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U32	It's probably an exaggeration, but some kind of blade of truth might be in it. There is a need for some optimisation of this staff. Of course, these details cannot be as clear to me as the Minister of Education. I suggest you direct such questions to him. But, of course, I am not happy with the idea that teachers' salaries have spread out, it is used to perform other functions, and that is our thoughtful goal, that is what we want. If the responsibilities of the municipality are relatively limited, the money should also move within precise limits.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U33	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U34	The next question is from my colleague, Tiit Tammsar, to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U35	Minister, thank you very much. Only some time ago, in this very hall, we were discussing renewable energy subsidies. You then argued that support for renewable energy for so-called micro-enterprises, family houses for the acquisition of windmills and solar panels was not necessary or, rather, was not economically viable. Let this approach be on your conscience. Perhaps you could ask the Minister of Defence, the chairman of your party, what he thinks of such a security policy orientation. But all right, that's, let's say, a little energy issue. Let's talk about major energy problems. Let us see how investments in a combi station built for Werol to please your party partner Rein Kilk have justified themselves. What about these investments? How have the auctions gone, what are the results?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U36	I did not understand anything about the introduction to this question, but the main issue concerns one of the Estonian Energy business lines. First of all, you might want to know a little context before you start making hasty assessments. Namely, due to the development plan of the state's energy economy, Eesti Energia started developing smaller plants for electricity and heat and/or cold cogeneration in 2008. Eesti Energia carried out a thorough analysis of this market, including even more than ten possible projects. The investment decision has been reached today for four projects, but there may be more. What are these? Paide is currently building a two-megawatt electricity and heat cogeneration station. Valga has such a cogeneration plant ready, a gas-based electricity and heat-cogeneration station has been launched in cooperation with BLRT, and the fourth is the project you referred to. Several other industry-related small cogeneration plants with a capacity of around three megawatts were also considered. Now, whether this risk materialised for the company. I can confirm, having looked at the company's internal control reports, that there is no link between the company's strategy and the fact that a representative of a potential project partner was in the Council, there is no link. The Chairman of the Council has assured me that every time this issue was discussed, this gentleman was not present at the Council meeting. However, it is still early to assess which risks were left unearthed, the extent of the final loss and whether there is any final loss. The existing plant has a significant market value and is currently looking for a partner or buyer in public sales.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U37	Please, Mr Tammsaar, the first point to be clarified. And remember, you have one minute! And, Minister, your answer is two minutes. Please hold on to this!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U38	Yes, I understand that I am not in an equal situation with the Minister. I, too, believe that neither the Board of Eesti Energia nor the Management Board is at all responsible for this matter. Your party partner put both the board and the council in a very embarrassing situation. As experienced people, neither do we think that Rein Kilk could go to the council and vote for his station there. Don't be so naive! But here's what I'm asking you. Let's say one of the four projects goes wrong. Is that natural and nobody's responsible? Everything okay?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U39	I wouldn't even say one in four. The business direction of small CHP plants is still promising, and these projects may come up. In some cases, the company has considered the risks to be high, in some parts no agreements were reached with warm buyers, etc. What is the final damage to the company if a warm and/or cold consumer has gone bankrupt and the new owner has changed the business plan is still early to assess. In fact, I would point out that I looked at the company's internal report and it turned out that the company actually saw its risk of bankruptcy. What were the analysts unable to predict? That the new owner would change Werol's business plan so fundamentally. He simply changed the business plan so that the need for cold fell considerably. The company can blame the management for that. But once again, all internal control reports show that different risks were considered with quite sufficient care.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U40	Please, my colleague Tiit Tammsaar, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U41	You can take it like this. Let's see what the auction brings and how it goes. That is why our business leaders, as well as ministers, are getting paid so that they can anticipate developments in the changing space of time. But that's it. As we know, there is currently an international oil shale symposium in Estonia. People from different countries are near Narva and are watching with interest Enefit 280 progress. What really doesn't go at all, the oil still doesn't come from there, and the investment of more than 200 million stands beautifully in the sun and shines. Let me ask you this: how could there be risks grounded, and what losses will we expect from there?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U42	At present, this is a very profitable investment. The start-up period for an industrial establishment of this kind may be long, and for good reason. I think that's normal. You don't have to be too impatient about that. Having met the so-called engineering partners of Eesti Energia, I am absolutely sure that the factory will be put to work and it will produce a profit for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U43	I would like to ask a question registered on the spot, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U44	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I would like to ask about another controversial project, namely the US oil shale mine and oil production. In the meantime, we heard the news that the technology that was intended to be used is actually not suitable for the oil shale in the United States. What are the latest developments in this project and how will we proceed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U45	The project is in the development phase. As far as I have information from the company, the development phase goes according to plan. So there is no basis for excessive drama shown by headlines in newspapers over a week. I also call on Members to take this project with great attention. More broadly, for the Estonian economy and Estonian science, this is a relatively important international project. And the risk associated with these projects is even quite manageable in cash, given that the state company currently owns more oil shale legally than it owns in Estonia at all, thanks to this project. But once again, the development phase is underway, environmental impact assessments are underway, various studies are being carried out as planned, the technology is being developed and improved. It's hard for me to bring out some pretty recent news as a member of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U46	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U47	Next question, please, from Mr Olga's Stranger to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U48	Mr. Prime Minister! A few days ago, the Guardian newspaper published information about the PRISM project, in which the US government has access to the user data of large IT companies operating in the USA. Of course, the news shook the world. What do you personally think of this project? Would you rather support and justify it as the President of the United States, or are you of the opinion that the privacy and the right to message secrecy of a very large number of people has been violated? We would like to hear your point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U49	I can confirm that, to my knowledge, the Estonian state has in no way been involved in the PRISM project. As far as I know, Estonian law enforcement authorities have not received information obtained through this project. That's what's definitely important to me. Estonia has no jurisdiction over US service providers on US territory. What exactly is involved in this project and what actions are being planned or carried out are, unfortunately, not known to me at the moment. There's been a lot of conflicting information in the press. It has even been mentioned that absolutely everything that happens online is stored within this same PRISM. I do not dare to take this statement seriously. There is no such hardware in the world that allows you to store everything on the Internet constantly. I can confirm that in Estonia, the secrecy of messages is only violated in order to prevent crimes or to find out the truth during criminal proceedings, and this is done on the basis of the rules laid down by the legislator.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U50	Please, Mr Olga Soldier, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U51	Mr. Prime Minister! But quite a number of leaders from other countries, such as Angela Merkel, have said that this issue deserves to be discussed at the highest level. Several Commissioners of the European Commission are also frustrated by the information they have received. Do you think that Estonia should take any steps on its own to ensure that such intelligence is internationally covered by agreements, whether between the US and the European Union or between the US and Estonia? Or let it stay the way it is, and let them spy on us as much as they want?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U52	As far as I am concerned, I, like Angela Merkel or Viviane Reding, can confirm that I would like to learn more about everything. I do not have any meetings with my US colleagues in the near future, but I know that both Viviane Reding and Angela Merkel, as well as some other politicians have allowed to ask for more information on this issue at meetings with their US counterparts. I have not read anywhere that these people have a complete picture of what this PRISM programme really is.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U53	Please, Mr Olga Soldier, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U54	Mr. Prime Minister! It's not just US companies that have social networks. There are very large Chinese social networks Qzone and Renren, but our neighbour in Russia also has quite large companies that also offer services to Estonian citizens, such as Mail. Ru, VKontaktte, Odnoklasniki. Very many Estonian citizens have an account and information on these networks. What do you think if it turns out that the Russian services are also doing the same thing, should Estonia react to it in any way and take steps to legalise it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U55	Seeing a smile on your face, I am absolutely convinced that you yourself will understand that this question was now completely inappropriately put to the Prime Minister. No Prime Minister is going to speculate on what he would do if his colleague or neighbor were to turn the law evilly. So you're not gonna get that kind of speculation from me. I can assure you that our government stands by the fact that no one in Estonia is wrong about the secret of the message, the legislator is not going to break it in a forbidden way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U56	A question registered on the spot, Mr Anvelt, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U57	Prime Minister! I am going to ask the question of my fellow Member in a slightly different wording. Have you received confirmation from the Estonian security authorities that they have not used information about Estonian residents in their activities, including by collecting information about Estonian residents from our foreign partners, in which case it can be assumed that it has been obtained in breach of the message secret of Estonian residents? Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U58	You yourself have worked in the police department and know that cooperation with partner services is quite good for Estonian officials. Estonia is a reliable partner and information is still exchanged. However, I assure you that, as far as we know, we have not received any information from our partners that has anything to do with the illegal violation of the message secret.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U59	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U60	The next question is from my colleague Kajar Lember to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U61	Good minister! Last week, I tried to get explanations from the Regional Minister in this Chamber about the IRL's understanding of municipal funding. I have to admit, I didn't get an answer. My question was motivated by your statement in the media that the model of municipal funding needs to be reviewed in order to better manage local authorities' roads. I'm gonna start by asking what you meant by that. Do municipalities expect a new financing model?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U62	I don't know what kind of media you're referring to. I think the subject was up when I had an inquiry from the Central Party. I repeat, above all, the most important position arising from Estonian law. Maintaining local government roads is the same function as any other local government. And we know that there is local government tax revenue to fill it. Whether local roads are well maintained depends in many respects on the priorities of the municipality. Financing from the state budget has always been an additional measure, not a substitute. There has been a statement from local governments, too, that there is not enough money for roads on the revenue base. If that is the case, then something is wrong with the general model of local government funding. In view of this reasoning, it is likely that the media have put their title on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U63	Please, Mr Lember, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U64	I'll take it from there. Are you essentially saying that the problem with broken municipal roads is not the lack of money, but the fact that local governments are not able to use the money properly? Is that your party's official position or your own assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U65	Let's take the municipality we're in right now. If EUR 10 million is allocated to propaganda expenditure, if the revenue from transport is transferred from the municipality's budget in full cold peace, and this will be the case every year, then the priorities are therefore a matter. And the result is that when the snow melts, we discover huge holes on the streets of Tallinn, and every winter or spring, these holes get bigger. To say now that there is no money in Tallinn's budget to carry out systematic maintenance and rehabilitation is just lying. These are the choices made by the City Government of Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U66	Please, Mr Lember, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U67	We were talking about Tallinn again. But the need to better plan the renovation of local roads has been very much discussed at the level of the local government associations. It has been said that local roads need to be re-stocked because at present there is no national register. Much of it is still behind the lack of money. By the way, this register exists in Tallinn. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, a register containing in-depth data would cost EUR As a minister, are you prepared to take this decision and give the Road Administration, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the authorisation to use the money they are likely to have, so that the necessary register on which this reasonable investment decision is based starts this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U68	Good questioner! This is said by the Act of the Republic of Estonia that the roads belonging to the local government as owner must be inventoryed and entered in the road register. Somehow, it has been difficult to comply with this law for years. We have now reached an agreement with the local governments that the state is prepared to provide methodological advice and to carry out this inventory project through the resources allocated from the state budget to local roads. We have a separate working group with representatives of the MKM, the Road Administration and the municipal associations. This working group will seek to reach agreement in the short term on all the details, in other words on the precise starting point of this project and also on the issue of funding. It is possible to do this by means of the relevant procurement. But I would point out that the road register is nothing permanent once this data is entered. It must be constantly changed and, of course, it is the responsibility of the owner.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U69	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U70	Good minister! The Road Act defines state roads as roads linking the capital and other cities with major ports, railway nodes and border crossing points. Tallinn is one such city where these major nodes are, but from the city's border to their nodes there are local roads. The logic of it isn't. But I am rejecting the law of tea now, it has really been the will of the legislator, and I am asking for your opinion as Minister in this area. You have said today that Tallinn cannot repair its roads, but shouldn't the same local roads leading to hubs still be state roads, directly financed and maintained by the Road Administration?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U71	Now, if I understand the question correctly, you must be thinking about the biggest roads in Tallinn. Are they supposed to be the state's? At the time, when we started restoring the Republic of Estonia, autonomous municipalities were formed and then this issue was thoroughly considered by local governments. The general idea was that the roads on the territory of the municipality were municipal. How else are you gonna pull that line? However, this does not mean that the state is not prepared to co-finance major road projects by municipalities. I am not talking about excise money, which we are going to channel to the municipalities anyway, but also bigger projects. There are examples. In Tallinn, we have financed the connection of Filter Road and Tehnika Street, 85% of the cost of the Ülemiste intersection, and in Tartu we are building the eastern roundabouts, which is a very large investment. For the next period, we will see at least EUR 40 million for larger investments by local governments, depending on the wishes of the local authorities, an increase in this amount could also be considered. So the state certainly does not wipe out its hands when developing large inner-city roads. On the contrary, in 2007 and 2008, when the use of money for the financial period ending in the European Union was still undecided, the Ministry of Economic Affairs repeatedly asked the City of Tallinn to add other important intersections to the investment project. We were talking about the North Passage, we were talking about Haaberst intersection, we were talking about Nõmme and Tondi level crossings, and so on. But I don't think that makes any sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U72	A question registered on the spot, Mr Tarmo Tamm, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U73	Minister, thank you very much. I certainly agree with you that local governments must carry out their functions. But how to secure all this with a revenue base, it is the decisive word for the Government of the Republic, because he sets out the financing model, the percentages, etc. I know that the reason for the broken roads in Tallinn is clear to you, but why aren't the rest of the municipalities in Estonia cleaning you up? The roads are not in order, for example, in Võru, Rakvere and Paide, where the Centre Party is not in power. What's the reason? Are there also wrong priorities or maybe local authorities simply do not have enough money to maintain roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U74	You have to look at the state of things in each municipality separately. Before I would like to draw any conclusions, the municipal budget must be taken out and the investments made, the changes in the structure of budget expenditure over a period of five to seven years must be looked at. The condition of roads usually does not get bad after repair, but in five to seven years' time. The currently in office mayor of Tallinn probably never dreamed that he would be able to stay on the Vabaduse Square for so long, and that is why he reduced the money for maintaining and repairing the roads in cold peace. That's why the holes are here, and now he's in trouble with them, and he's running spring campaigns. Thanks to him anyway, at least we'll break down less citizens' and guests' cars in the city.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U75	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U76	The next question is Mr Andrus Ansip, my colleague, Mr Ester Tuksoo, to Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U77	Madam President! Prime Minister! The rural development plan is in the final stages of its preparation. This is a very important financial document for agriculture and rural areas in general for the next seven years. How much have you discussed in the government that it needs to take into account the financial figures of the sector, including how much social tax has been paid by specific producers, as well as other data collected by the Tax and Customs Board? And secondly, how many groups of companies of one size or another have created more jobs or lost them? Have you discussed such criteria when dealing with the rural development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U78	We have, of course, already discussed the measures relating to the rural development plan at government level. We have discussed the purpose for which the money we hope to receive from the European Union's common budget could be used. However, your questions concern operational issues, and we have not come to discuss them. In principle, it is commendable that we have already discussed the issues of the rural development plan on such a broad basis. Obviously you have also personally participated in these discussions, I very much hope. However, this multiannual budgetary plan does not yet exist in the European Union. The European Parliament is working on the matter, and I hope that it will go faster in the future than it has gone so far. I repeat that there is no approved multiannual budgetary plan for the European Parliament. If there is no multiannual budget plan, we also have no certainty about the amount of money that we can use in Estonia as part of our rural development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U79	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U80	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. I'll keep asking. For the last three years, an additional premium has been paid for up to 100 head herds. It is a good experience to analyse how this sector has evolved as a result, whether the herds have decreased or increased. I would advise the government to investigate this as well. But that's it. I also like your statement that money should not be scattered, but used specifically for larger projects. I have this question for you: which rural development policy sectors do the government prefer investment?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U81	With the time I have left, I will hardly be able to fully present the rural development plan you have prepared to everyone. The general principles for the allocation of funds require that at least 25% of the rural development programme's funding goes to environmental and climate-related activities, at least 5% must remain for the implementation of the Leader scheme, up to 4% may go to technical assistance and the performance reserve must be 7%. In principle, these rules have already been dictated to us by the multiannual budgetary plan, although, I repeat, this multiannual financial framework does not yet exist. You could say, in a way, we're sharing a bear without being shot at. But you better get your distribution plans done before, maybe one day a bear gets in our hands, and we can make these plans come true. According to our current plan, EUR 330 million will go to the benefit of the environment, or 35%, 28% of all sums, or EUR 261666666, will go to competitiveness, 18%, or EUR 166766000, will go to support rural enterprise and the local initiative, and EUR 103 million, or 11%, of all funds, to support the food supply chain.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U82	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U83	Thank you, Prime Minister. I actually knew the bill, I wanted to hear something else from you. But my last question is short: are you going to discuss the rural development plan with a special wish for an Estonian farmer for the next seven years? Do you have any hopes in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U84	There are many hopes. I am convinced that our agricultural sector has done very well. Increasing the efficiency of the sector has been significant. I absolutely disagree with those who say that our rural or agriculture has never been destroyed by anyone. On the contrary, I see that productivity figures have increased enormously rapidly. For example, 25 years ago, when wheat was harvested within 40 quintners, Avo Samaküütel now receives an average of 9.6 tons of winter wheat per hectare. It's still an enormous increase in yield. Compared, for example, to the current level of milk production, which was at the time when many thought that Estonian agriculture was at the top of the peaks, there is little to compare. When the average milk per cow was 3,500 kilograms per year, the average level in Estonia now exceeds 7600 kilograms per year. The productivity of the agricultural sector has increased extremely rapidly over the last 20 years and our agriculture is very competitive on the European market.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U85	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Since our Question Time is over, I will stop dealing with this issue. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for asking questions and, Prime Minister and ministers, for answering questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U86	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. We will begin the 17th working week session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. I would like to ask my colleague Yana Toomi of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U87	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Central Party Group, I am handing over the draft law amending the Aliens Act. Such a draft was motivated by a large number of people's calls. I will briefly introduce the key points of this legislative amendment. Since our current law is at times out of date, we want to improve three basic things. One point relates, for example, to the fact that a spouse is allowed to move with a spouse residing in Estonia only on condition that he/she proves that his/her family is unable to live in the country of birth of the spouse applying for a residence permit. Basically, family should be able to choose where he wants to live. It's a change. The second amendment, when we are talking about spouses and residence permits, concerns that, apart from love and unfigurative marriage, there must be a close economic link. However, economic ties cannot arise when people live in different countries. This order should be different before marriage and then already in economic communication. The third, perhaps the most important thing, is that the current law does not provide for children and grandchildren to come from third countries to care for their sick parent or grandparents who live alone and cannot cope with their own. We'd like to give them that chance. There are some other improvements, but I believe that we will discuss them when this law comes to the trial in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U88	Thank you. Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U89	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Both the opposition and the coalition do not seem to be opposed, most of the draft laws are adopted unanimously in this Chamber. Recently, we all voted in favour of the draft law 347, which significantly improved the quick-loan market. Conditions were laid down for the promotion of fast-track loans and the provision of information on their terms and conditions. However, ladies and gentlemen, we missed this road. The Social Democratic Party Group has a proposal to move on from now on. I am pleased to hand over the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the General Part of the Civil Code Act, which sets limits to usury, i.e. extremely high APRs that are contrary to good practice and their implementation, and also restricts the issue of quick credit in cash. So we go on along the path that we started to walk a little while ago on both sides of the halls in mutual agreement and power. I hope that this bill will also be adopted in our joint agreement and force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U90	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to accept them within three working days. Now some messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated on 10 June; the commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs; second, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion and the accompanying Protocol, initiated on 10 June, is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, please check your presence. 81 delegates registered as present, 20 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U91	The first item on today's agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the Water Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that most of you are in the Chamber. We can go to the final vote. I will put to the final vote a draft law amending the Water Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 391. Please vote! 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U92	We begin by reading 354 third reading of the draft law amending the law on the grant of international protection to an alien initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague, Mr Ossinovski, from the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Socialists have three reservations about this draft, to which we also referred at second reading of the draft. Firstly, the draft aims to connect the reception centre for asylum seekers with the expulsion centre for persons expelled from the country, which is renamed a detention centre. In principle, persons who have not voluntarily completed an exit letter shall be kept in the expulsion centre. There are both illegal cross-border persons and, for example, people who have committed a crime, whose residence permit has been revoked and who have not left the country voluntarily. The expulsion centre also has quite a strict regime, in accordance with the law on the obligation to leave and refusal of entry. For example, during the evening hours, people are not allowed to stay outside their small room, where they live on two bunks with four others, nor are they allowed to use handcuffs, bonding, and a calming shirt. The Chancellor of Justice has recently drawn attention to the serious violations that have occurred at the Harku Deportation Centre. This concerns both the unjustified use of handcuffs and the violence that exists between prisoners from different ethnic groups. Harku Deportation Centre has been clearly overcrowded lately. This draft aims to put asylum seekers who need to be detained in the same institution as those who have committed violations of the law and to implement the regime in force there. It is true that in many countries the reception centre for refugees is connected to the expulsion centre, in this sense this idea is not unique. However, it should be noted that, in many countries, the UN Commissioner for Refugees has expressed concern about this practice, for example by saying that refugees are treated like prisoners in Denmark and Great Britain. We believe that we are moving in the same direction as this bill. Another, even more serious problem is, in our opinion, the government's plan to move the joint detention centre to the territory of the Tallinn prison that is being built. The current draft provides the basis for this. Of course, there will be a separate entrance to the detention centre, as has been pointed out, and there will probably also be a more lenient regime than in ordinary prisons, but as a signal to society, this is a very regrettable step. This, in our opinion, amplifies the prejudice that exists in society towards refugees, that they are basically criminals who want to come to Estonia to drain our social system. Refugees are persons in need of international protection, whom we must help in accordance with international agreements, and I believe that we must not give any indication that they are criminals. We also find it questionable why the draft provides for the involvement of the Defence Police in the refugee procedure. The right to detain persons for up to 48 hours is no matter what, even without this legal provision. However, a logical system could be such that after 48 hours of detention by the protection police, they hand this person over to the Police and Border Guard Board, which will carry out further refugee procedures. However, the draft provides that the kapo will request permission from the administrative court to detain a person for a further period of up to two months. In the current law, this authorisation is restricted to the Police and Border Guard Board. It is not clear to us which of the tasks of the kapo are involved in dealing with refugees. Moreover, since this is a legally very complex area, there are two possible effects. Firstly, it must develop competences to be able to deal with refugees of high quality, which is costly. The second option is likely to be even worse: these competences will not really be developed and, in the future, there will be more frequent infringements of refugee rights. In our view, both scenarios or options are undesirable. For the three reasons I have just talked about, we are voting against this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U94	Thank you very much, Mr Ossinonvski. I would like to ask for the floor as a representative of the Group of the Centre Party of Mailis Repsi.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U95	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! The Centre Party Group has the same reasons why we cannot support the draft law amending the law on the grant of international protection to an alien and the related amendment of other laws. Indeed, if we look at the points that the previous speaker has already pointed out, we can interpret one or the other provision more easily, we can say that international obligations have been met. However, as with many other laws, international obligations, as well as national practices, are specifically mentioned in international law. If we look at the accommodation centre of the expulsion centre and asylum seekers, namely the integration of people in need of international protection under international law with those who are illegally in the country for various reasons, are already criminals, something that causes their expulsion has been done, then this practice in European countries is very clearly criticised. The various institutions of the Council of Europe have repeatedly highlighted negative practices, including at the level of resolutions, for example in Great Britain and in another country where asylum seekers are sought to limit violations of international obligations. Estonia should certainly not go this way, that we follow the practice of the worst-lettered countries, trying to give a signal: 'The applicants for shelter, do not come here, the situation in Estonia is difficult. ' After all, there are many reasons for moving to prison territory, but this seems to be and will actually be a signal that is not in line with the objectives of international law. When we met the new leader of the Defence Police in the Central Party Group, we also asked how the two completely contradictory functions could be combined. If, by nature, the Defence Police should say for every immigrant that it is not useful for Estonia, it cannot, according to internal political logic, be that filter for asylum seekers, which shows how we fulfil our obligations under international law. And perhaps the most important thing we should note in this Riigikogu is that the wishes of asylum seekers may be incomprehensible to the Estonian ordinary person, but at least at the level of the Riigikogu we should remember our own history. If many of the previous members of the Riigikogu had not been able to apply for asylum outside Estonia decades ago, they would have ended up like the majority who were either executed violently or who suffered other very serious consequences. Seeking asylum has been one of the ways of restoring independence for Estonia's own people throughout history. So these international commitments are nothing abstract and very distant for us, something that we only take to ourselves in order to look good. The steps we take in this law are certainly not in line with the logic and objectives of international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U96	Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will final vote on the draft law 354 amending the law on the grant of international protection to an alien initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, on the amendment of other laws. Please vote! 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 39 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U97	We will begin the third reading of the draft Vocational Training Institution Act 331 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? Yes, they do. I would like to ask for the floor as a representative of the Group of the Centre Party of Mailis Repsi.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U98	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! The VET Act has been prepared for the last several years. Its development involves a very wide range of vocational schools, teachers of vocational schools, entrepreneurs, as well as people who are exposed to vocational training from a distance. The new draft VET Act contains a number of points and provisions that significantly improve the situation of VET institutions, create more flexible opportunities for vocational education and, through different levels, remove bottlenecks that are perceived in VET. In developing the new draft VET Act, the Committee on Culture had a very consensual view and had very interesting discussions, which the rapporteur also pointed out at last, second reading, such as the debates on regional higher education or Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre, the possibility of continuing its activities. It is also important to mention our long debate on the conditions under which young people who pursue higher education can postpone their military commitment. Unfortunately, however, it must be said that this draft introduces a rather politically unexpected approach. Without further talk and preparation, there is a requirement that only Estonian-language education will be available in vocational education very soon. It seems logical, after all, the Republic of Estonia, the official language of Estonia. A number of such steps have been taken in upper secondary schools and it is certainly understandable for vocational training institutions, too, if we place an emphasis on teaching the national language. But there are two buts. First of all, no real work has been done to date. If we look at our general education system, teachers' trainings, various integration programmes, which have specifically addressed language learning issues, we still have to say: language skills in general education schools are not enough to study at a good level in Estonian in all upper secondary schools. If we go to a vocational training institution, there is no need to look far for vocational education problems. It was only a few days ago that we heard every hour on the newscasts how Praxis has highlighted the bottlenecks in vocational education precisely because the motivation of young people, the level of education and the initial education with which they enter the vocational education system are not sufficient. It is therefore clear that young people with the best language skills will not enter vocational education today and, unfortunately, they will not be there tomorrow. What could result from this? It is quite likely, and unfortunately not only we, but also many specialists believe, that if a young person who does not have sufficient language skills is unable to enter upper secondary school education, this simple political decision also deprives him of the opportunity to receive secondary vocational education. He or she may continue to complete vocational education and training at first stages, but he or she will not be able to complete secondary vocational education or training.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U99	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U100	That is why we also need to point out where we see the objective of vocational education. Vocational education provides an opportunity to take a variety of vocational examinations, which at some higher level require a young person to have a secondary or higher level of education. However, given this requirement for vocational education and training, it is very likely that many young people who "woke up" later, which very often happens to boys, will also cut off the possibility of going to a university of applied sciences through vocational education and acquiring higher education later. Moreover, it is clear that in some regions employers are non-Estonian. And when we look at internships, many young people are also unable to practice in the Estonian language environment. Such a barrier, which we are now introducing in Bill 331, can limit the further education and working life of a very large number of young people. And another nuance that may not have been noticed by several members of the Riigikogu: vocational education in our other language schools has a significantly better reputation than in Estonian-language schools. Today, it is often the young people in Russian-speaking schools who have much better motivation for vocational education and who really want to continue working in the field of study. Our proposal for draft 331, as was the case in the Committee on Culture, is to deal first with language levels, to learn language skills in comprehensive school and to be able to analyse whether we are prepared to provide more intensive national language teaching in vocational secondary education and better knowledge of the national language. It is only as a result of these analyses that such a decision can be made. At the moment, this decision is clearly crude, not enough steps have been taken in the field of education to allow us to say that we are ready to make vocational education in Estonian at the same time as secondary education. Therefore, despite the remaining very good part of the draft, the Centre Party Group will unfortunately vote against this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U101	Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps. I would like to ask my colleague Liisa-Ly Pakosta as a representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U102	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U103	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U104	Ladies and gentlemen, This is indeed a very good bill. I agree with the previous speaker that this issue was dealt with very thoroughly in the Commission, met with all the stakeholders involved in this area, and that the draft was amended to the extent necessary. Special congratulations should be given to the representatives of the Ministry, who had already done a great job, the professional schools themselves, who also worked very hard in committee discussions, employers and all other professionals in the field. All this resulted in the completion of a fully mature law that is not crude. But I'll get to that one more time. The fact that professional law and vocational school are finally entering a happy marriage and hopefully also having many offspring is perhaps the greatest value of this law. If a young person now asks you, ladies and gentlemen, whether or not to go to vocational school, then it is safe to recommend and add that, if there are any abilities, it is certainly worth pursuing these upper, higher-numbered professional levels. Yesterday, another monitoring of the European Union's labour market has reached our disposal, which shows very clearly that all jobs that disappear are for people with low levels of education, and all jobs that are created and where there is a very large shortage of labour are precisely those that require a fourth and fifth degree of employment. The law currently being discussed also brought the fifth degree into Estonian lawroom and vocational schools. It is for this reason that the entire labour market is looking for professionals, people with a good knowledge of their field, that vocational schools have introduced a similar assessment to those used in higher education, both in order to obtain the right to study and in the organisation of curricula. The state takes greater responsibility for the fact that when a young person goes to vocational school, he really has an education that meets the expectations of the labour market. Thus, with regard to the major problems that have been encountered in this area, the country takes a much greater responsibility to respond to the demands of the entire European labour market. For the same reason, we have retained the possibility of vocational training in universities of applied sciences, because it is for higher-level professionals who have the highest expectations on the labour market. I'm sure my grandfathers and grandmothers would be delighted with this law if they were still alive, because a greater introduction of practice is also one of the objectives of this law. It's not enough just to read on paper, the things you want to do as a working person in life, you still have to practice a little on a school bench. What could be the messages of this VET law to society at large? For other educational institutions, this law has a number of important messages. Universities could also look at vocational schools and increase the share of internship in their studies. Many universities are already making such changes. However, not only universities really, manual activities and the practical application of mental activities should be practiced already in kindergarten. I strongly advise the heads of kindergartens across Estonia to search through this VET Act and see how they can take a schnitt about it, not to mention comprehensive school or upper secondary school. In the case of upper secondary school, i.e. secondary education, it should be emphasised separately that the law favours the convergence between vocational and general education schools. When new acquaintances, new friendships, possibly marriages are made, this mutually beneficial cooperation will help young people to familiarise themselves with invitations at an early age and why not also leave upper secondary school with a professional certificate. A very important message to society is that the Union of Isamaa and Res Publica does not want to keep the division in Estonian society, even more so, to reproduce it nationally. That is why this transitional period has been granted until 2020. Thus, not tomorrow, but in 2020, vocational schools need to be able to offer graduates who are able to find a job on the Estonian and European labour markets, i.e. offer them, as far as possible, Estonian-language education, Estonian-language skills. All of this serves only one purpose: that there are no people in our labour market who, according to research, are either losing their jobs or having to choose a job with lower pay only because of poor language skills. Our very clear goal is to break these barriers and offer all young people who receive education with the support of the Estonian state, an education that really helps to feel good about themselves on the labour market. I call on the Chamber to vote in favour of this bill, which is in the interest of all young people living in Estonia! As far as possible, like young people, strive for the best possible results, and for that I recommend voting in favour of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U105	Thank you very much, Mr Liisa-Ly Pakosta. I would like to ask my colleague, Lauri Luige, to speak as a representative of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I am pleased to talk about the law on vocational training institutions. We have finally reached a finish with a new complete text, and today it only needs to be adopted. First of all, thanks to the law's preparer, the Ministry of Education and Research, who has done a thorough job. Thank you to all the parties with whom we have met and discussed during this long process and from whom we have received sensible proposals. Thank you, fellow Members, with whom we have worked and tried to improve in the Commission and beyond. It is good that this bill was dealt with in a relatively large consensus. Indeed, there were some differences, which were alluded to from this panel earlier, but there was still a consensus in the majority of the Commission. Once again, I am going over the more important objectives that we want to achieve with the implementation of this law. We will achieve better quality, accessibility and governance of vocational education and training. We will also increase flexibility, reduce the drop-out of vocational training institutions and ensure a better output for the labour market. In order to achieve all these objectives, we have laid down a number of important measures in the law. For example, we make it easier for professionals to be involved in teaching, we set out the fifth level of vocational education, or the level of technician, which clearly helps to ensure better quality of vocational education in the future, we integrate vocational education with general education, we allow flexible mobility between professional levels, we also make it more flexible to carry out traineeships and we also introduce the concept of a sub-vocation (a partial qualification may become a student who does not complete a vocational school). All of these actions support the objectives set. Of course, it also includes continuing close cooperation with entrepreneurs and their involvement from the earliest possible stage, i.e. from the beginning of curriculum development. This should also ensure a better output for the labour market. There were three issues that gave rise to the most discussion and response at the Commission and also at the readings in the large hall. The first was the retention of professional higher education in vocational education institutions. As we know, the initiator of the draft had a plan to eliminate this possibility by putting the education system in order. However, in cooperation with the parties (in particular Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre and Tallinn School of Economics), the Commission came to the conclusion that we must be flexible in our small Estonia and, in the future, allow us to offer applied higher education in vocational education institutions if there is an accredited curriculum. And since we also have a dozen universities of applied sciences that provide vocational education, this system should be flexible and reciprocal. The second question concerns the language of instruction and the transition to 60% of the Estonian language, as we have also provided for in the upper secondary school. It should be said that the direction to switch to Estonian-language education at our school upper secondary school was taken as early as the early 1990s. We believe that this direction must be continued. It is important to stress that vocational education and training can continue to be obtained in Russian, for example, but it is necessary to complete vocational secondary education in Estonian if you are to receive vocational education. I find, and our group considers, that the ability to speak Estonian is... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U107	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U108	... for the benefit of young people, in particular, so that they can do better in both private and professional life so that they can integrate more quickly into our society so that they can find a job in the future. And the sooner he learns the national language, the better. So it's in the interest of all the young people. The third topic, which was more reflected, was the summoning of the Defence Forces. We are making this system more flexible by law. If there were problems so far, for example, for students of the art of presentation who should have gone to the Defence Forces half the time they were studying, we will make the system more flexible, so that they can be in a nominal time educational establishment and then go to the Defence Forces when they are eligible to go there. To sum it up. I am pleased to note that vocational education and training has become increasingly popular year after year. The demand for vocational education has exceeded the supply in many parts of the world, which shows that young people have started to appreciate it very clearly, that vocational education is promising and that it will also ensure a job in the relevant field of work in the future. We have good cooperation with business and we certainly need to further develop this cooperation in the future. Entrepreneurs have contributed quite a lot to modernising the necessary inventory and, of course, also help to ensure a professional job. The state has invested heavily in vocational training institutions. If you walk around Estonia, you will see that there is a great deal, you could even say that the world-class vocational training institutions with a modern learning environment, such as the Räpina Gardening School, where I myself visited a few weeks ago, the Haapsalu Vocational Education Centre or the Vocational Education Centre of Võrumaa, already mentioned. So vocational education is developing vigorously and I hope that the law adopted today will also update the legislative framework for vocational education. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to thank once again all the parties who helped to develop this law. I hope that we will adopt it and that we can begin to implement the requirements of the law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U109	Thank you very much, Mr Luik. I would like to ask my colleague Jaak Allik as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U110	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The task of the VET Act is to enable all young people living in Estonia to receive quality vocational education and to find a positive application in society, not to solve other possible, certainly necessary tasks. In my speech, I already congratulated the Ministry of Education and Research and, in particular, Mr Punga, in the second reading of the draft law, as well as the Committee on Culture, led by his chairman Mr Klaas, for very positive and constructive cooperation and for seeking solutions to many of the problems raised by this law. These solutions have also been found. Unfortunately, the coalition of the Riigikogu did not support the proposal of the social democrats to leave the language of instruction to each specific curriculum and each year to decide on the subject to the schoolmaster, i.e. in our conditions to the Ministry of Education and Research, based on the level of language skills of the lecturers and students. I am amazed that the coalition does not trust the Ministry of Education and Research or experts, but still wants to solve the issue of making people happy by force, even more so in this law than in the PGS. This is why, unfortunately, the Social Democratic Party Group cannot support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U111	Thank you very much, Mr Allik. Since all the political groups have been able to take the floor, I will conclude the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote draft law 331 on vocational training institutions initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 45 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 16 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U112	We will begin the third reading of § 22 Amendment Act 334 of the Study Grants and Student Loan Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? I would like to ask my colleague, Helmen Küti, to speak as a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U113	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we are adopting the Amendment of § 22 of the Law on Study Grants and Student Loan Act 334, which is, indeed, cut-off form, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. The objective of extending the cancellation of a student loan for 80 to 100% of persons who have lost their capacity to work also to persons who cannot work because of the care of children with deep or severe disabilities and to whom the municipality or municipality pays support for the care of a disabled child has been achieved only partially and only the parents of children with deep disabilities can be exempted. Once again, I would like to congratulate and thank the Committee on Culture and its Chairman, Urmas Klaas. It is not normal that the commission, despite the fact that the Government of the Republic did not support the draft, was prepared to continue to deal with the draft and to familiarise itself with the problems, to ask for additional information from the Ministry of Social Affairs and, at the request of the representatives, to send the draft to the Social Affairs Committee for discussion. I would also like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs, where the debate led by Margus Tsahkna supported the draft in exactly the form proposed by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Unfortunately, in the second reading of the draft in the large Chamber, when the Group of the Social Democratic Party voted on the proposal to include the exemption of parents of children with severe disabilities from the repayment of student loans, all the coalition ambassadors of the Social Affairs Committee voted off this draft. We all know the classic example of learning punctuation that a misplaced comma can depend on life or death. I mean the sentences 'Kill, not forgive! 'and 'Kill not, forgive me! '. Why am I giving such an example? I guess it's because to illustrate the press release of the Isamaa and Res Publica Group, which was published in haste on 6 June, and where it was hypocritically reported, as a winning job, that the state was going to erase the parents with a deep disability, pay attention, parents in writing a student loan. In fact, if the disability had occurred after taking the student loan, the student loan for a severely disabled adult was already written off before the adoption of this law, as these people generally suffer from 80-100% inability to work. So it had nothing to do with the bill that passed the second reading in the hall. Perhaps it could be illustrated that, in a great hurry, making mistakes by changing the meaning of the law in the press release and not mentioning the actual author of the draft, the IRL ripped the draft as a whole to shreds and tried to look better by decorating itself with a strip. Finally, I believe that the law that we are adopting today is an expected and good law. The Social Democratic Party Group will, of course, support the amended version in today's final vote. However, this law would be very good if the parents of children with severe disabilities could also be exempted from repayment of the student loan. That's why we'd all be proud! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U114	Thank you very much, Mr Helmen Hunter. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Let us now go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am putting to the final vote the draft law amending § 22 of the Law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group 334. Please vote! 74 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U115	We will begin the second reading of the draft law amending the Construction Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mr Olga Sõtnik, Member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U116	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of what has been done with this bill in the meantime. The first reading took place on 22 May, where it was agreed that the deadline for amendments would be 29 May. No amendments were received from the members of the Riigikogu or political groups at that time. The following day, the working group of the Economic Commission prepared the draft for the Commission meeting and proposed one amendment for its part. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also made one proposal. At its meeting on 3 June, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft for the second time and we also discussed the amendments. The first amendment provides that § 1 of the draft is to be supplemented by a new clause amending the norm comment in the Construction Act. Since, in accordance with Articles 65 and 68 of Regulation (EU) No 305/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council, recognition is granted from s. a From 1 July, Council Directive 89/106/EEC shall be repealed, the reference to that Directive shall be deleted from the normical note of the Construction Act. Since Directive 2002/91/EC is already invalid, the technical note needs to be updated in this respect as well. Directive 2002/91/EC replaces Directive 2010/31/EU. This amendment had been submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The second amendment is the proposal of the working group and is as follows: to change the time of entry into force of the law by deleting the entry into force clause (§ 2). As the deadline for the entry into force of the Act in § 2 of the draft law s. a 1 July is not real in view of the late submission of the draft, it is excluded from the draft. Although the directly applicable Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, which led to the amendment of the Construction Act, will enter into force in full s. a On 1 July, the entry into force of the Act after that date, according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, will not lead to conflicts to an extent that could lead to significant confusion with the norm address or infringement proceedings. If § 2 is excluded from the draft, the Act enters into force in general. Technical and linguistic changes have also been made to the draft, but none of them alters the substance of the draft. The commission decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 12 June, i.e. today, and to propose that the second reading be terminated. In the event that the second reading of the draft is closed, the proposal is to carry out the third reading of the draft on 19 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U117	Thank you very much. Let's continue with the questions. Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U118	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm looking at § 9 'Technical Evaluation Agency'. It states that the person wishing to act as the technical assessment body of Estonia will submit an application to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, etc. Can you tell us what conditions this person must meet so that he can even apply for such an application?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U119	Unfortunately, I can't answer that question right now. As far as I know, we had this person at Tallinn University of Technology before, but I don't think there is such a person right now. In the opinion of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, this person does not come out either, because the companies that would like to turn to this person do not.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U120	Please, Mr Aivar Kokk, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U121	My question is, what are we doing this law for if there is no one who needs it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U122	It's only one point, but there are quite a few other points that are necessary. And in the event of such a need, there is a law and a rule of how to create such a person.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U123	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Olga Soldier. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. There are two amendments to the draft law. The first and second amendments tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs are fully taken into account. Second reading of Bill 429 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U124	We will begin the second reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, from the Committee on Rural Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U125	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 3 June, the Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the draft law amending the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic, for the second time. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees on the draft. One amendment had been prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and was explained in the Commission by a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture. As a guest, Marko Gorban, Head of the Rural Development Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, attended this committee meeting. It was decided that § 101 (2) will be amended and worded as follows: "If the beneficiary does not pay contributions in accordance with the timetable for reimbursement of the grant, the PRIA shall cancel the decision to defer the refund of the grant and set off the refund to be recovered. " This was not an opportunity before in this law. If it is not possible to offset the refund to be recovered within a reasonable period of time, the PRIA shall give a decision on the recovery of the refund to be enforced in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Code of Enforcement Procedure. The Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda for 432 plenary sessions. a by 12 June, and propose that the second reading of the draft be completed. When the second reading is closed, it is proposed to place the third reading on the agenda on 19 June 2013 and to adopt the draft 432 as a law. All the decisions were consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U126	Thank you very much, Mr Tuiksoo. Any questions for the waitress? I don't think so. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. There is one amendment to the draft law which has been tabled by the commission and which has been fully taken into account. Second reading of bill 432 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U127	We will begin the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Feedingstuffs initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to invite my colleague Meelis Mälberg, a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I give a brief overview of the current procedure of the draft law amending the Law on Feedingstuffs initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 14 May. On 22 May the draft was in this Chamber at first reading and the first reading was closed. The draft was then discussed again by the Committee on Rural Affairs at its meeting on 3 June. Martin Minjayev, Head of the Food Safety Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, and Diana Rammul, Legal Adviser, were also invited to this meeting. No amendments were tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees on the draft by the deadline of 31 May at 16 o'clock. In cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, an amendment was prepared to correct the erroneous reference to European Union legislation in the text of the draft. According to the amendment, subsection 6 (7) (b) of the Feed Act is replaced by the letter (a). Essentially, this means that in addition to animal proteins in the original text, animal proteins are also products such as milk, milk-based products, dairy products, colostrum, colostrum products, eggs, egg products, collagen and gelatine derived from non-ruminants and are authorised as raw material for feed produced to aquaculture animals. The commission decided to propose the completion of the second reading of draft 431 and, if the second reading of the draft is completed today, to send the draft to the third reading by 19 June 2013 and to adopt it as a law. The Commission made its decisions in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U129	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Meelis Mälberg. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. There is one amendment to this draft law, and we will review it. The proposal is made by the Committee on Rural Affairs and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. As the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 431, the second reading has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U130	We are going to the next item on the agenda, which is the second reading of draft law 425 amending the Aliens Act and the Identity Documents Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I ask Mart Nut, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to present his speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U131	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed the second reading of this bill at the regular session of 4 June. In addition to the members of the committee, Ruth Annus, Head of the Migration and Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, Getter Tirik and Laura Sofia Annus, both advisors of the Migration and Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, and Mihkel Sus, Head Specialist of the Business Department of the Economic Development Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, were invited to the debate. A brief reminder. The purpose of this Act is to make it easier to obtain a residence permit for persons who have been invited by the company to work as qualified specialists and who are prepared to pay at least two average salaries, as well as for those who start studying in Estonia. During the discussion, Ruth Annus presented the position of the Ministry of the Interior and said that the Ministry of the Interior had tabled three amendments to the draft law. I am going to be very clear about the fact that the members of the Riigikogu did not propose amendments. The three proposals, mentioned in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, have come from the Ministry of the Interior and are all technical in nature. The date of entry into force of part of the draft provisions has changed during the draft procedure. According to Ruth Kund, it is very important that the amendment to the Commercial Code enters into force in general, because there is no reason to postpone entry into force and this is a waiver from the residence requirement arising from the provisions of the Commercial Code relating to a branch of a foreign company. The entry into force period of 1 January 2014 instead of 1 September 2013 should also include a provision on regulations to be established by the Ministry of Education and Research in order that a residence permit can be granted to persons who participate in an external cooperation programme that has been positively assessed by the Ministry of Education and Research, i.e. a scholarship has been considered. One technical amendment comes from a previous draft. The law on foreigners is constantly changing and some of the amendments are planned to enter into force on 1 January 2015. In the meantime, the current text of the Aliens Act was amended, but the name of the residence permit was not replaced, "residence permit in case of overriding public interest' being replaced with a "temporary residence permit for participation in criminal proceedings' as from 2015. By then, a new information system should be ready and this is not a very acute problem that needs to be resolved urgently. So this change would then enter into force from 2015. The law of foreigners is inevitable that it will be constantly changed as life changes and moves on. Therefore, no foreign law can be considered exhaustive. There are certainly a number of issues that are pending to be resolved, but they will remain to resolve the following draft laws. I bring out the procedural decisions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, all of which were taken by consensus. The first decision was to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 12 June 2013. Secondly, it was decided to propose the termination of the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to send the draft to the third reading on 13 June 2013. It is therefore a consensual proposal to adopt the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U132	Thank you very much. Please ask a question, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U133	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I have a very specific question. Mart, please look at page 3 so we can see right away.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U134	Do you mean the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U135	Yes, Section 1 (11) of the draft, and before that point 9 (4) (3). It goes through several places that a foreigner receives a residence permit if he or she is invited to work and is paid a minimum of two average gross monthly wages, for example EUR 1800. But this point 3 a little above says that social tax must be at least equal to the monthly social tax payable in Estonia for five times the average gross monthly wage per year. Does this mean that even though the salary is EUR 1800, the social tax has to be paid from EUR 450 or how it has to be understood?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U136	Thank you. This question was never raised in the Commission, which is why we could not ask the representatives of the government. I can say so much that most of the provisions of this bill are a compromise between the parties, and these have also been the trade unions, the tax office and the social security office. I'll give you that answer later, I'll ask the initiators how this thing is meant to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U137	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question is motivated by internal concern and is addressed to you as a deeply educated and terminological person who loves accuracy. The word "residence permit" is always in my ear. Isn't that supposed to be a'stay permit'? I tried to look at Google Translator, which is the opposite of a residence permit. It turned out there wasn't a permit to live, and it almost reached some kind of language as a death penalty. Maybe we should do something about it. That's a semi-retorical question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U139	Thank you. A residence permit as a concept we have had in law since 1990 when the first migration law was passed. I wasn't in the terminology of that time yet. I've been in the Riigikogu a lot and for a long time, but I wasn't in the Supreme Council when I made that bill. Actually, it's a translation of the words "residence permit." Is the resident resident or resident? I think we should look here at the fact that the residence permit does not come from the words 'right to live', but from the words 'right to be a resident'. But let's keep arguing about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U140	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U141	Thank you, Madam President. Mart, I have one more point to clarify. On page 6, point 39. A foreigner with a professional qualification in any field who receives at least two average gross monthly salaries is referred to here as a top specialist. Does this mean that a person who has ever, for example 30 years ago, received the basic invitation of a builder in a vocational training system can be appointed as a top specialist and may be invited to run a major construction project or to work on a project? How about this? A person can have either primary or primary education, and only on the basis that he or she has an occupation, he or she will be paid EUR 1800 and he or she will be a top specialist.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U142	Thank you. The definition of a top specialist comes from a number of European Union legislation. I don't have them on hand here, but there's an educational requirement. I don't think you can treat a person with primary education as a top specialist. However, someone who has completed education a long time ago but has not lost his skills can certainly be a top specialist. The same is true of the members of our Riigikogu who have once studied various specializations at the university. Now the question is whether we are qualified if, for example, we should return to our previous profession or not. I think there is a part and there is no part, but those who do not should have the opportunity to complement themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U143	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U144	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, You mentioned that there were some other issues relating to the law of foreigners and requiring a solution. Perhaps you will expand our knowledge: what are these issues and are they included in the work schedule of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for future resolution?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U145	Yes, it is. There have been quite a number of proposals from different organisations, some of which have been submitted to the Ministry of the Interior, some have been submitted directly to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I can cite, for example, the rather voluminous proposals put forward by the Chamber of Commerce, which at least need to be discussed. Whether we support them all or not, I cannot say this now, but they are going to be discussed at the autumn session.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U146	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Mart! Can you tell me how many of those top specialists would like to work here? Is there a trend? Is it a growing or falling trend, is there any numbers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U148	Thank you. No, the bill certainly cannot be mentioned now, because there are no arrangements for how to grant a residence permit under an urgent procedure. This procedure will not take effect until this draft becomes a law. There is a wide range of data on the extent to which Estonia's need for top specialists could be high. It is said that the figures are 500-1000, but these figures are not verifiable. This figure depends very much on the needs of companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U149	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U150	Thank you, Madam President. I'll come back to these top specialists. What is the source of these company's capital limits and the requirements for return on sales? What about small businesses? For example, a very large number of IT companies in the initial phase of their activities may have little capital and sales revenue, but at the same time very high growth potential. Is this potential for growth not taken into account here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U151	Thank you. There's no way I'm reading in the bill that there are any obstacles. The issue is only about the wage claim and the wage claim, which is twice the average gross wage, is the result of the negotiations that different parties have held in Estonia. This is primarily a request from trade unions to avoid increasing unemployment in Estonia. I think this agreement is adequate right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U152	No more questions for the waitress. Thanks a lot, Mart Nutt! We're opening negotiations. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U153	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'd say after the land tax exemption law, I haven't read anything so funny in this hall. Although I do not go into the government's prepared draft laws very often, it makes more sense to ignore them without changing anything anyway. I'm sure the coalition will adopt this law, too. There's no problem with that. But I still want to draw your attention to specific points. Let's start with page 3 of the bill. Paragraph 106 (4) (3) states that if you have employed a top specialist, this condition must be met: the monthly social tax paid in Estonia is at least equal to the monthly social tax payable in Estonia in the event of a five-fold average gross monthly wage per year. If employed with a minimum of two gross monthly salaries, which would have been EUR 1800 last year, social security contributions should be paid on the sum of the five average gross wages of EUR 4500. This means that the employer will have to pay EUR 1800 to the top specialist and give EUR 1500 to the state. I can't imagine where such a love for some top specialists could come from, except for those cases that were fixed some time ago in the residence permit trade. I'm not sure at all, it's none of my business, the Ministry started this thing, let them see for themselves whether the Social Tax Act provides for the possibility of an 80% tax on wages. According to my memory, it says 33%. Let's keep going. Page 7, Bill item 41. It states that if an alien holds a residence permit to work and the employer with whom the alien has been granted a residence permit to work is obliged to pay him or her the fee provided for in § 178 of this Act (two gross monthly average wages are minimum), the obligation to pay this fee is not imposed on the other employer, even if it would be a condition for granting a residence permit to work. A model emerges naturally. There are two companies, one such as the main company and another subsidiary, and one of them needs this top specialist. One company formalises an invitation, pays twice the average gross wage for one month, the next month the person is already working in another company and the requirement laid down in § 178 does not apply to him. And, in my opinion, the obligation to pay social tax does not apply either. That's the only way it can be. Who's the top specialist? Point 39 of the draft law contains two conditions in this respect. For the purposes of the law, a top specialist in any field is a foreigner with professional qualifications, etc. Read this formula and make it clear to me where it has been said that this specialist must have been prepared precisely in the area where he will work in Estonia! It doesn't say that here. He may have a higher education, he's a biology teacher, but he's called to run some kind of construction company. It doesn't turn out from the formulation that he's got to have the same specialty education. That's one. Secondly, the level of education has not been shown here. Mart said it was written in a European document. But this is our law, is this a requirement or is it not? If this man ever studied as a painter in a vocational school, and he didn't even get a secondary education, is he a specialist in his field? What else could he be called, the random person? The question arises as to whether the gentleman who was paid huge money to run Estonian Air and who happily pushed this company into the pit is a top specialist. But he was hired on such a salary as being a super-specialist. Where's all this stuff? Does this mean that, in the light of recent events, I look at the fact that, for example, as Kross, Laar and Sõerd went to help Georgia as advisors, now those who fear in Georgia will be called to us as top specialists? Very easy to do, give your people a job for political reasons! Or worse, for financial reasons, the sale of residence permits is legalised. It's what helps a company like Stelmach and the Iron keep working. But the funniest thing I could think of was § 2231 'Adaptation program for foreigners'. We have had integration programmes that have been wasted huge money on. No one can tell what it's done. Now there are some integration programs, just like the money goes to the wind, but there doesn't seem to be a result. Now there's the adaptation program. The nicest thing is that it is introduced by regulation by the Minister of the Interior. We have no idea what adaptation programs are going to occur there. We have no idea that nothing has been written down here; it has not been defined in any way; what tasks this adaptation program should have. If a person is paid a minimum of EUR 1800 per month, for God's sakes, what more adjustment are you talking about? I think it's one of the most interesting drafts that's ever been through this hall. Without further ado, I'd say he'd be second in that ranking. And it is clear that if the Commission is a waitress with all due respect for you, Mart, if you can't answer me about what's going on with the social tax, then it means that the bill is not ready for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U154	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no more calls. Let us examine the amendments. There are three amendments, they are from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the lead committee has proposed that they be fully taken into account. Amendment 1, Amendment 2 and Amendment 3. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 425. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U155	We are going to the last item on the agenda today, which is the second reading of the draft Museum Act 374 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Ms Liisa-Ly Pakosta, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U156	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft Museum Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic. February 11th and its first reading took place in this Chamber on March 20th. The deadline for submitting amendments was 4 April. The procedure between the first and second reading of the draft has been beautifully thorough in the Committee on Culture. The Committee on Culture discussed this draft six times at its meetings, and a number of discussions have been held in different working groups. On 3 April, the Riigikogu Information Centre held a wide-ranging discussion on the topic "Estonian Museum of the Future," where the same draft was discussed with experts and interested parties and where 105 people attended. As a result of all these discussions, the Commission has brought together the proposals, discussed them and tabled amendments, which I will briefly present to you. I will address in my introduction proposals, which perhaps have a wider public interest, and I will leave these amendments, which are of a technical nature or which concern the specific internal organisation of museums, without further consideration. The texts of the proposals, together with the explanatory notes, which are quite comprehensive, are all available to you and, of course, I am ready to answer the questions. The changes in substance would begin with the number one, which specifies the concept of the museum and the area of application of the law. Indeed, by adopting the law, the paradigm that has been in force so far will change: if, until now, the museum law was applied quite generally, the area of application will now be narrower. The law applies in full to state museums and the museums of the foundation established by the state. The rest of the museums, i.e. the museum of a public person, the municipal museum and the private museum, are subject to the law in so far as it is expressly stated in the law. They shall be subject to the provisions relating to the organisation of the museum collection in so far as they have voluntarily joined the museum inventory or where they have concluded an administrative contract for the use of a state-owned museum collection. Consequently, the owner of the museum, who is not in this circle, such as the local government, who owns its own museum, these museums are not less important to the Estonian state, can establish its own rules of procedure according to local peculiarities, circumstances, expectations of the community and the goals of the local museum. It may be based on the general principles set out in this law, but it may also apply principles that take account of local circumstances as it sees fit. The definition of the museum itself and the general definition of the museum for all Estonian museums have been substantially specified. It is important to point out here that, by definition, the museum is an educational institution. In practice, it concerns people who love museums and who love to attend museum courses so that learners in educational establishments have the right to deduct from the income of the tax period of a natural person the training costs paid for studying under § 26 of the current Income Tax Act. This helps the training provided by museums, let's say, to compete on the market with those provided by other educational institutions in the same field, in the case of paid training. A major change in the content of the paradigm is much smaller, as most museums already do so very nicely, the requirement has been introduced at the level of the law that the museum should take into account the specific characteristics of children and people with disabilities when performing its tasks. As has been said, most museums do so already, but the introduction of this value into the law stresses that state museums and state foundation museums should always take these two aspects into account in all their activities and make sure that they are accessible, understandable and accessible to people of all ages and with different mobility. Outside the museum, perhaps it is important to draw attention to the fact that if people have questions about cultural heritage in their possession, they can turn to museums, i.e. museums are obliged to advise people who have approached them on cultural heritage issues if resources are available. As a minimum, if the museum does not have the resources to provide in-depth advice, the person will at least be guided to where he or she receives help and advice. All this so that the Estonian cultural heritage, whether in people's homes or in museums, would be better and more informed. The public is probably also affected by Amendment 8, which talks about the financing of museums and sets out the requirements for paid services. Two types of ticket are specifically mentioned for paid services. Firstly, for children under the age of 8, disabled children and persons with deep disabilities and their accompanying persons, the museum visit must be free of charge in the future. In most museums, this is already the case. The new issue of family tickets has given rise to a lot of controversy and public excitement, the Commission has imposed such a requirement that two adults receive a single preferential ticket with their children or children. Its aim is to provide children with better access to museums. Figuratively speaking, if you, ladies and gentlemen, decide to go to a museum in the future, it will be more economical for you to go there if you take a minor child with you. If you do not have yours at hand, bring a child from your neighbors or acquaintances and in this case you should have a more favourable ticket to the museum. Do not get too excited about this example; however, the general objective of this provision is to motivate adult people to visit museums with minors and to contribute to all the valuable activities that museums themselves carry out in providing educational programmes for children. Of the most important changes, perhaps I would mention that the procedure for financial evaluation of the subject belonging to the museum will change, but this is a specific topic of museum work, and this has been explained in length and in depth in the explanatory memorandum. The public, who is not familiar with the work of the museum on a daily basis, is perhaps more interested in this point, which is in Amendment 27, and concerns the exclusion of the museum from the collection of museums. This proposal has been made by the Museum Council and the amendment by the Estonian Central Party Group has been taken into account in essence. In fact, there are items that are used as museums in museum collections, but instead of which there is, for example, the possibility of acquiring an item of the same quality, or which have several duplicates, and a group of experts has come to the conclusion that there is no point in keeping all such items. Now there is a very precise regulation on how to move forward with this exception. It cannot be excluded that there is also a change in the name of "pulp oil', the number of which is 32. This concerns the case where the museum produces a product directly related to its exposure containing alcohol. The museum has the right to sell it as a souvenir. Here, for example, the Palamuse Oskar Luts Parish Museum offers punch oil that was included in the list of pharmacy products in the past. A number of other points are still being changed, but these are more technical or in-house improvements. Finally, the Commission has, in essence, failed to take into account only one proposal. Now you must be excited what it is. This was the proposal of the museums of the University of Tartu to clarify in the law which museums should definitely be appointed as members of the museum council, but the Commission unanimously decided that it would not be appropriate to give a precise list in the law. If there really is a problem, we can return to this issue later. All the other amendments and additions that were submitted to the Commission, the proposals of both the Estonian Centre Party Group and interest groups, were resolved in the discussions. I would like to thank the Commission very much and, of course, all the proposers and participants in the working groups. I would certainly like to thank the representatives of the opposition in the Commission, who put this kind of nice pressure on us, put all these things in order and worked in substance, but also, of course, the coalition partners who were just as basically working together. The work environment was very constructive and it is likely that 34 amendments proposed by the Commission and agreed by the Commission in consensus will signal this. That's all I got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U157	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U158	Thank you, Madam President. Madam rapporteur, first of all, I would like to thank you for a very thorough and very interesting presentation. My question is about training, especially paid training. Did I get it right that if a person has participated in the training organised by the museum, he will be able to receive benefits and deductions for them by filling in the tax return at the beginning of the new year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U159	Thank you. Basically. It adds a number of details that will apply from the entry into force of the Act, does not apply to previous trainings that the museum must have a contract with a person with a personal identification number, etc. But in the case of training organised by museums, if they are subject to a fee and meet all the conditions laid down, this right really does arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U160	Thank you very much. Please, Helmen Hunter, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U161	Thank you, Madam President. There's another question. As an abstinence fighter, I ask you, if there is a point and a correction called punch oil, whether it has some sort of, I don't know, strength, percentage of volume, or degrees that are allowed. An example is the creation of the Moe Museum and the sale of Moe vodka. I understand the idea of this punch oil and the ancient historical connection to this museum, but suddenly there were discussions on it too?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U162	Thank you for this very good question. You rightly thought that there was, of course, a long and thorough debate on this subject. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the current regulation allows museums to sell alcohol to an unlimited extent, but demands that it be consumed locally. The Commission agreed on this wording, which allows a very limited number of products that really need to be directly related to museum exposition, to be sold to a person in addition to on-the-spot consumption. This should indeed exclude that this could be an alternative place of sale of alcohol. We are still talking about souvenirs, which are subject to specific restrictions according to the text of this law, not all possible alcohol products. The assumption is that this is a cultural establishment where various alcohol-related exhibits are still displayed, and if they then produce some kind of product in this connection, it is not an obligation to consume it locally.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U163	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U164	Thank you. Good colleague! I understand that there are museums in the country that are either in the hands of the local government, in the hands of the state or in private hands. They all work under different conditions. Which side of these categories is this new law looking more at?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U165	Thank you. That's a very good question. Similar questions, which were also put to the Commission, were the reason why there are a number of amendments. The idea is to make things clearer and more precise. It must certainly be stressed that museums are valued in the same way in society. The introduction of the concept of a museum also serves this purpose. In the current situation there are roughly 7.5 million museums in state museums and about one million are in other museums. This bill tells us exactly how to act on one occasion or another. In principle, after the adoption of the law, there is a situation that all museums that are not national or national foundations have signed a contract with the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture will then review whether they comply with the concept of a museum or not, whether they are operating all year round, whether they are willing to make their museum museum museums publicly available with digital images. Finally, the area of application of the museum law may include all museums, but it does not automatically apply to all great museums established by the village society, for example, where the museum label hangs up. If a village society decides to host a museum, or if a municipality decides to hold a museum, but does not wish to meet all the conditions laid down in the law, which are in itself such international conditions, it has the right to do so. In such a case, only a small part of this law automatically applies to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U166	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U167	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Amendment 27 is on the exclusion of the museum. Here is paragraph 1, point 4, which says that a museum can be excluded from the collection of museums if the museum has left its possession or left another country before being included in the museum collection and is transferred to the owner or returned to another country. This amendment has been taken into account by the Commission. How is this provision consistent with the procedure for the return and compensation of unlawfully disposed assets, which, among other things, says that the museums will not be returned? Has the various legislation been brought into line here, and that means that the museums can be returned in this way? What is meant by handing over to the owner? Is this still a legal return, a transfer of ownership?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U168	Thank you. I'm going to take this point apart. I would like to emphasise once again this general principle: it is always a very exceptional act, preceded in any case by the activity of an expert group. If the museum is excluded from the collection of museums, this is not automatically a result of the law, but is always preceded by the activities of a group of experts. Even if, for example, the museum is completely destroyed or damaged, the group of experts will review the situation and make specific decisions. I'm sorry, tell me again what cut and time it was!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U169	You can have another question, Neeme the Great. We still have to get all the verbosograms. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U170	Thank you, Madam President. I'll specify the question. This is Amendment No 27, Paragraph 11 (1) (4). We're talking about a museum out of his hands against the owner's will. I am actually drawing attention to a very specific aspect, and Madam President is also very well aware of what a specific aspect is. These are the church's assets, which are currently located in the Estonian State Museums. This is an international issue, and here the country, churches and also foreign countries have shown a great deal of goodwill, but so far there was an obstacle to the fact that we could not talk about surrender, but about depositing, etc. Does this change give rise to the possibility of refund?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U171	Yes, this amendment complies with the international law and conventions to which Estonia has joined. The same practice or similar wording is used, at least, in the laws of the northern and western countries. I suspect it is not on the east side, but in the European Union it is a common principle. We'll specify that in the law. If you are looking at the current museum law, the exclusion of the museum from the museum collection is really only related to the fact that the museum is largely destroyed. The new regime takes account of the museum's substantive work, various international and national legal relations, all of this subject matter much more thoroughly and widely. But I repeat once again: in each individual case, the circumstances will be very carefully reviewed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U172	No more questions for the waitress. Liisa-Ly Pakosta, thank you very much. We're opening negotiations. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U173	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I was motivated by the fact that the museum law is a very important law. Even if it is because museums are a vital instrument of national culture, they are the preservers of national memory, and they have a powerful influence on the collective identity of any nation. In recent decades there has been a rapid development in memory sciences; the digital age has led to convergence between different memory fields. Twenty years ago, wise people were eager to talk about the differences between institutions and fields involved in archival, museology, and other memory sciences. It was said that all of them have an 80% specific component and maybe only 20% overlap. Today, the situation is quite different and I think we are approaching the fact that the joint section is close to 80%. This has led to the destruction of institutional barriers between memory institutions worldwide, an institutional approach. In view of all this, the new museum law was very much needed, even because otherwise we tended to get in the way of time. The regulation was needed in a number of directions. By the way, in difficult times, when educated people are few in decision-making, it is very important that museums are viewed as relics. Everything is sacred, and it's already in the museum. In fact, it's as much an extreme as keeping collections of museum junk. I'll give you a nice example. I remember when the University History Museum bought Dmitri Ilyich of Uljanov's museum corner from the Antiques, I'm sorry, from the old hardware store, a nightpot that looked old, and found it to be suitable for Mitja's nightpot. From that moment on, it was a large heirloom that must not be broken, sold, or even given to children to play. So changes had to be made in several directions. When this bill was received by the Riigikogu, it felt as if it had a strong official seal. It was a law according to which the Ministry would work well, but it certainly did not satisfy museums or society as a whole. We still tend to have a little feudal fragmentation, where each ministry is primarily defending its own official direction. But it is Parliament's job to make everything fit for society as a whole. A number of herds were also programmed into the law, which would not have allowed the division of the administration to be broken later, but were trying to secure it. Now I hope that I will be able to surprise this numerous audience, who are interested in national culture and still remain in the hall. And I am surprised that, as a representative of the opposition, I want to acknowledge not only the Commission, but precisely Liisa-Ly Pakosta, the person handling this draft, who did an amazingly big and good job by initially being able to tie up the ends of the conflict and reach reasonable compromises. As has already been said here, even opposition parties found that their proposals were essentially taken into account, they are fused harmoniously into the draft. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U174	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U175	I say that this draft has been well balanced and, at the same time, difficult decisions have been taken. The main thing is that this law is not an ideal law that lasts decades. No, it's the law that works today. They're asking if that means there's gonna be a success story in museums now. No, it doesn't mean that either. Whether museums are doing very well or very badly does not depend solely on the law. But from now on, the law won't disturb them. It is also very sympathetic that in the course of the proceedings, the directions that need to be developed and further developed have emerged. In my opinion, this is almost an ideal situation in the work of the Riigikogu: life goes on, the laws live as well and, if necessary, they are transformed. To sum it up. This law removes many of the restrictions that have been in place so far and allows museum affairs to be moved forward on condition that other problems are solved: if the money continues, if there is sufficient funding, then the lives of museums can go on. As far as the law is concerned, our group considered that a nice draft law must be completed and supported by the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-12_U176	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no more calls. We are going to examine the amendments, to a total of 34. The first amendment is from the Committee on Culture; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment is from the Centre Party Group; the proposal of the commission is to take the substance into account. Amendment 3 is from the Centre Party Group, taken into account in substance. The fourth amendment is from the Centre Party Group, taken into account in substance. The fifth amendment is also from the Centre Party Group, taken into account in substance. The sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth amendments are from the Committee on Culture; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of them. The 10th amendment is from the Centre Party Group, which has been taken into account in substance. Amendment 11 is also from the Centre Party Group, which has been taken into account in substance. Amendments 12, 13, 14 and 15 are from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 16 is from the Centre Party Group, taken into account in substance. Amendment 17 is from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendments 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 are from the Centre Party Group, taken into account in substance. Amendment 23 is from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 24 is from the Centre Party Group, taken into account in substance. Amendments 25, 26 and 27 are from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 28 is from the Centre Party Group, taken into account in substance. Amendments 29, 30, 31, 32, 33 and 34 are from the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. We have examined all the amendments and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 374. Second reading is complete. Our agenda today has been exhausted. I wish everyone a nice evening and see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 15.55 p.m.
