ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the 9th working week Tuesday session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. No drafts or requests for information are recommended. Messages. Wednesday, s. 20 November, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. Secondly, the President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Culture Rein Lang. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present; no 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the first reading of the draft law amending the Land Reform Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like a presentation of the speech chair, Siim Valmar Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! As you can see, the draft is quite short and concrete. The content of this draft is to include in the Land Reform Act a section laying down the basis for the creation of a land-use tax information system and confirming the list of data contained in the database. In particular, according to the Land Reform Act, rural governments have to deal with ex post payments related to land operations and other periodic taxes, i.e. charges for building rights and usufructs. At the same time, the software solutions available to rural governments have been untied for years and do not allow for all the necessary operations, including partly accounting procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U4	I'm sorry, waitress! Good guys in the hall, please keep it down.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U5	As the existing solutions are inconvenient and not integrated, it is not possible to obtain an operational overview of the country's land operations and financial statistics. Therefore, the management and processing of land after taxes requires a single software to ensure that the State has an overview of the income from land after taxes and other periodic taxes arising from land transactions, can keep records and carry out checks and get an overview of the entire debt portfolio in order to exercise its rights as owner of claims. The additional objective is to ensure that all customers of procedural procedures are well informed of the fulfilment of their obligations to the State and that they have the possibility to communicate directly with the State in the online environment in the performance of their obligations. In the customer view of the Earth's post-tax claim information system, the customer is able to get an overview of the related operations and make payments. The customer view can only be opened after the entry into force of the law amending this Land Reform Act and the Data Collection Statute. The controller of the database is the Ministry of the Interior, which organises the analysis and development activities necessary for the maintenance and development of the database, is responsible for the consistent functioning of the database, determines security requirements for it, giving instructions or instructions to the processor and developer, maintainer and host, ensuring the security and secure availability of the data and the preservation of the data entered in the collection. The authorised staff of the database shall be the county governments responsible for the accuracy of the data entered in the database as well as for the legality and rationality of the release of the data and shall designate the persons empowered to enter and use the data in the database. As background information, the contracts that are being dealt with in this database are 14698 at 31 October of this year, i.e. almost 15 000 of them, and the total amount at that point was 98.65 million, or nearly 100 million euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U6	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Regional Minister. Aivar Koka, vice-chairman of the Rural Commission, for a co-report!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U7	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Land Reform Act 516 at its meeting on 4 November. Siim Valmar Kiisler, Minister of Regional Affairs, Taavi Linnamäe, Adviser to the Minister of Regional Affairs, and Väino Truthets, Head of the Local Government and Regional Administration Department of the Ministry of Interior were invited to the meeting. The Minister of Regional Affairs gave an overview of the draft law amending the Land Reform Act 516 and noted that in the course of the land reform, up to 50 years could be used for the privatisation of the land. There are 14698 such contracts as of 31 October. Each county government has so far collected these data and kept the register differently. The data has now been harmonised and aggregated into a single database. The draft provides the basis for the establishment of the Land Reform Act. The new information system will reduce the administrative burden on managing the performance of land contracts and the receipts of after-tax taxes in the context of land reform, and the opening of a customer view will create preconditions for early payment of post-tax claims. The Commission also asked some questions and received exhaustive answers. The Commission decided to appoint 516 rapporteurs here. The proposal was to put the draft on the agenda already on 13 November, but as we know, the sessions went long, and so it is on the agenda today. It was proposed to close the first reading of draft 516. All proposals have been made in a consensual manner. At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs, it was decided to propose that the deadline for amendments to draft 516 be set at 14.00 p.m. on 29 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U8	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 516. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 516 amendments. a on 29 November 2006 at 14 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U9	We will go to the next item and begin the second reading of the Bill 465 of Amendment to the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Maret Maripuu, member of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated the draft amendment to the Health Services Organisation Act on 9 September, the first reading of the draft took place on 9 October. I recall that the main objective of the draft is to address legally the problems encountered in the implementation of the Health Services Organisation Act. They relate to access to health information system data in order to improve the overviews, analyses and health statistics needed to manage health policy and fulfil international obligations. No amendments were tabled to the draft within the specified deadline. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 11 November and decided, on a proposal from the Ministry of Social Affairs, to propose two amendments. The first amendment is the technical regulation. Amendment 2 deletes the provisions set out in subsection 4 of § 1 concerning the obligation for healthcare providers to submit a notification of consolidated data on health care statistics and on day care within 30 days of the provision of the healthcare service and its approval by the healthcare professional, which allows access to the consolidated data on health care statistics provided by him/her as from 1 January 2014. The obligation to receive a notification of consolidated data on health care need not be regulated at the level of the Health Services Organisation Act, but can be done by means of implementing acts established pursuant to this Act (Regulation No 131 of the Government of the Republic of 14 August 2008 on the Basic Regulation of the Health Information System and Regulation No 53 of the Minister of Social Affairs of 17 September 2008 on the data elements of documents to be transmitted to the Health Information System and the conditions and procedures for their storage). During 2014, the availability of documents sent to the Health Information System will be tested for the needs of health statistics and only then a final decision will be taken as to whether or not the documents already available and sent to the system are sufficient to produce health statistics. As a consequence of the above, § 2 which provides for the date of entry into force of § 1 (4) is also deleted from the draft and the entire law enters into force in general terms. The commission made the following procedural decisions and proposals: to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 19 November. a and propose that the second reading be completed. All the decisions were taken in full agreement and I would also ask for support for the big draft of the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U11	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We will examine the amendments made by the Committee on Social Affairs as the lead committee. Amendments 1 and 2 are both proposals by the commission and are fully taken into account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 465. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U12	We are going to the third item on today's agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 495. I would like a speech from Reet Roosi, member of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U13	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft 495 is a draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act, which is at second reading. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic. a on September 25th. The draft amends the part of the financing of compulsory psychiatric care provided by the Health Services Organisation Act. Currently, funding for this treatment is provided by the Ministry of Justice, but according to the agreement of the ministries, it goes under the Ministry of Social Affairs together with budgetary resources. The first reading of the draft act took place on 16 October and neither members of the Riigikogu nor political groups presented any amendments after that. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 5 and 11 November. It was decided, by consensus, to make one amendment and to supplement the draft with the paragraph under which the law would enter into force on 1 January 2014, i.e. from the new financial year. The Social Affairs Committee, once again by consensus, decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today and to propose that the second reading be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U14	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Reet Roos! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. There is one amendment to the draft, we will review it. This has been done by the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The amendment has been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 495. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U15	Our fourth item today is the second reading of the draft law amending the Parental Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Ms Maret Maripuu, member of the Social Affairs Committee, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic on 9 September s. The first reading of the 470 draft law amending the Parental Benefits Act initiated in 2004 was completed on 9 October and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 23 October 2013. No amendments were tabled within this deadline. The Committee on Social Affairs met in two sittings on 5 November and 11 November to prepare the 470 draft law for discussion and second reading. The Commission decided to make one amendment at its meeting on 5 November and the text of the draft text and the explanatory memorandum together with the table of the amendments were approved at its meeting on 11 November. The amendment specifies the last sentence of § 3 (7) of the Parental Benefits Act in subsection 1 (1) of the draft. The amendment makes it clear that the parental benefit may not be reduced to the extent of the benefit granted by more than half and that the amount of the benefit may not be lower than the level of the benefit. The Committee on Social Affairs made the following procedural decisions and proposals: to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 19 November and to propose that the second reading be terminated. The Committee on Social Affairs also decided that, should the second reading of the draft be completed, the third reading of the draft will take place on 21 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U17	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Maret Maripuu! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. The Committee on Social Affairs has proposed one amendment to 470; the Committee on Social Affairs proposes that this be fully taken into account. The amendment has been examined. The commission's proposal is to finish the second reading of bill 470. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U18	We will go to the next item, which is the first reading of the draft 525 of the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Afghanistan. I would like a presentation by Secretary of Defense Urmas Reinsalu of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U19	Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will request a mandate for the following year to extend the deadline for the use of the Estonian Defence Forces in Afghanistan on an international peace-building mission. It is planned to participate in the same volume as this year, i.e. up to 170 members of the Defence Forces. In the spring of this year, the Estonian Defence Forces completed ten years of participating in Afghanistan's missions, and according to decisions between allies, both the ISAF and NATO's battle mission should end by the end of 2014. After that, the NATO advice and support mission Resolute Support will be implemented, which is an ISAF follow-up mission. The Estonian Government has decided that we will participate in the battle mission until the end of 2014 in such a way that the last contingent will proceed to the mission in November, and if next April the election of the President of Afghanistan is expected to take place, then after that, the company should return in the first half of 2014 and our participation in the company should end. After the first half of 2014, the movers and the logistics team will continue to organise the transplant for a few months until all the logistical and transplant functions associated with the company have been completed. In addition, next year, in cooperation with the United States of America, the ISAF mission will have our special operations target unit, which will carry out its tasks in Eastern Afghanistan. There is also an important structural addition: for the first time next year, our Defence Forces will be taking part in the NATO Northeast Corps headquarters in Afghanistan. This will allow us to occupy high positions at leadership level and to gain the necessary international experience. The Republic of Estonia has suffered great losses in Afghanistan. We have lost nine members of the Defence Forces in the Afghanistan mission, whom we will remember and remember through the ages. Our Defence Forces have been a good and reliable partner and military ally on this mission, and we are leaving the battle mission in Afghanistan in cooperation with our allies, on the basis of military objectives and in order to achieve the political and Afghan stability goals set for the mission. I ask the Riigikogu to discuss the extension of the mission and, on behalf of the Government, to approve this extension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U20	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Minister Urmas Reinsalu. For a co-report, please address the Chair of the National Defence Commission, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading. a at its meeting on 11 November. This session was attended by Mr Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Defence of the author's representative, Kuno Peek, Adviser to the Department of Defence and Operations of the Ministry of Defence, and Berit Marksoo, Specialist. The draft is also related to the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 5 November at the Defence Forces General Staff, where we met Major General Riho Terras, Commander of the Defence Forces, and senior officers of the General Staff, who gave an overview of the international missions of the Estonian Defence Forces, including those in Afghanistan. The ISAF is NATO's most important military mission, to which the relevant UN Security Council resolutions extend. For clarification of the explanatory memorandum to the draft submitted by the Government of the Republic under discussion, I note that on 10 October this year the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 2120 extending the mandate of the current NATO-led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) until 31 December 2014. According to the draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion, Estonia will continue to fulfil its allied obligations arising from NATO membership in accordance with the aforementioned resolution of the Security Council of the United Nations. The deadline for the use of the Estonian Defence Forces on the Afghanistan Peacebuilding Mission ISAF will be extended until 31 December 2014, with the main unit of the Estonian Defence Forces, the infantry company, to complete the mission in summer 2014. The Defence Forces' logistics will then begin the extraction of the infantry company's equipment, which is due to be completed by autumn next year. After that, NATO's further and main task will be to support Afghan security forces. The National Defence Committee did not understand why the initiator in his draft wishes to increase the cap for the period of non-existent rotation to 340 Defence Forces within one month and point 2 of the draft will probably go to the National Defence Committee after the completion of the first reading. The National Defence Committee decided s. a At the meeting on 11 November, by consensus, the Riigikogu Board is invited to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 19 November. A speaker was appointed to serve as a waitress for the National Defence Committee. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. On the basis of § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be set. a 2 December at 11 a.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U22	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Mati Raidma. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 525. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 525 amendments. a 2 December at 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U23	The sixth item on the agenda is the first reading of draft 527 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria' presented by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation by Secretary of Defense Urmas Reinsalu of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Over 150 military observers from a total of 25 countries, including 10 NATO Member States, will participate in this military observation mission. The area of operation of this mission is Israel, Egypt, Lebanon and Syria, and our military observers have been participating in this UN oldest observation mission since 1997. By 2014, the Government of the Republic shall request up to three military observers from the Defence Forces to participate in the UN observation mission. I stress that this is a task of monitoring compliance with the peace agreements in the Middle East. It should be taken into account that the situation in the region has recently become strained due to the internal conflict that has escalated in Syria. In view of the security situation, the activities of the observers of this mission are also temporarily restricted in these areas. On behalf of the Government, I would like to discuss and support the draft extension of this mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U25	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I would like to present a speech chair to Ülo Tulik, member of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading. a at its meeting on 11 November. This session was attended by the Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu, adviser to the Department of Defence and Operations of the Ministry of Defence, Kuno Peek, and specialist Berit Marksoo. The draft is also related to the National Defence Commission. 5 November session of the Defence Forces General Staff, where the members of the Commission received an overview from the representatives of the Defence Forces of the events in the international missions areas with the participation of Estonian Defence Forces. As the Minister of Defence made a thorough presentation, there is no point in repeating it here. I stress the same fact as the Minister that this military observation mission is based on UN Security Council Resolution No 50 of 1948 and that Estonian Defence Forces have been participating in this mission since 1997. This is a purely UN so-called 'blue helmet observation mission'. The National Defence Committee decided s. a At its meeting on 11 November, by consensus, the Board of the Riigikogu will be invited to include the draft under discussion for the first reading in the Riigikogu. On the agenda of the 19 November session, the Riigikogu was asked to conclude the first reading of the draft. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu that the draft be fixed by the deadline for submitting amendments. a 2 December at 11 a.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U27	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 527. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 527 amendments. a 2 December at 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U28	Our seventh item on the agenda today is the first reading of draft 528 of the Riigikogu's decision on the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on the peace-building mission in Kosovo. Mr. Urmas Reinsalu, Secretary of Defense of the Chair, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government will seek to extend the participation of the Defence Forces in a peace-building mission in Kosovo in the composition of NATO peace-building forces next year on the same scale as this year, i.e. with up to three members of the Defence Forces. It is a mission which started in 1999 to prevent the revival of hostilities and to support Kosovo's national structures and international organisations operating in Kosovo. As of the summer of this year, a total of 31 countries contribute to the Kosovo operation with around 5 000 peacekeepers. The mission has been successful. This is also demonstrated by the fact that since the second half of 2009, mission personnel have been reduced twice. The possible termination of the mission will depend on the security situation in the region and will be analysed on an ongoing basis. It is certainly important for us that what is happening in Kosovo has a wider impact on the security situation in the Western Balkans and is also linked to European security in general. So it is also in our interest to ensure stability in Kosovo with a view to European security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U30	Thank you very much. Any questions for the Minister? There are no questions. For a co-report, I would like to ask Tõnu July, Member of the National Defence Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U31	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, According to the draft decision, Estonia will continue to contribute to the NATO-led international peacekeeping mission, KFOR, based on UN Security Council Resolution 1244. The service position of the Estonian Defence Forces is at the KFOR headquarters in Priština. According to the draft, Estonia fulfils its allied obligations arising from its NATO membership. Kosovo's stability has a significant impact on the security of both the Western Balkans and Europe as a whole. The aim of international forces and Estonia is to support the government of Kosovo in ensuring security and stability in the country. In addition to the deployment of the Defence Forces, Estonia also contributes to the civilian mission EULEX in Kosovo. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before sending it to first reading at its meeting on 11 November. Mr Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Defence, Mr Kuno Peek, Adviser to the Department of Defence and Operations of the Ministry of Defence, and the specialist Berit Marksoo took part as representatives of the drafters. The draft is also related to the departure session of the National Defence Commission on 5 November to the Defence Forces General Staff, where the Commission received an overview from the representatives of the Defence Forces of the international missions of the Estonian Defence Forces, including in Kosovo. At the meeting of 11 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the sitting of the Riigikogu on 19 November 2013. The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here. The National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the first reading of the draft and to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the deadline for amendments be 2 December at 11 a.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U32	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Tõnu Juul! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 528. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a 2 December at 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U33	The eighth item is the first reading of draft 531 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the work of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or the international military headquarters of the European Union' presented by the Government of the Republic. The speech is presented by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Defence of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This type of request for a mission was for the first time in Parliament's proceedings last year. The content of the request is to give the Defence Forces a so-called "blank" decision, which clearly delineates their participation in the work of the international military headquarters of NATO or the European Union. First, the number of members of the Defence Forces is limited to five. Secondly, their function is limited to the operation of the International Military Headquarters. Thirdly, it has been said that these European Union or NATO operations can only take place on the basis of the provisions of Chapters VI and VII of the Charter of the United Nations. In practice, the same was done when the European Union launched a training mission in Mali. On the basis of such a mandate, two members of the Defence Forces participated in the work of the Staff and were subsequently specifically requested to hold a parliamentary mandate for the EUTM Mali mission. The idea is precisely to be able to react quickly when the international security situation becomes so strained that an international military mission is decided to direct to a particular crisis area. This is certainly important for the success of these operations, when it is possible to direct competent staff officers to the region in the initial phase. It is important for us to have international partnerships if we are to be able to contribute quickly, because it gives us the opportunity to be more closely involved in the development of operations, which in turn will make it possible to better plan our future activities. According to the International Military Cooperation Act, there is also an obligation to inform Parliament if there is a specific need to deploy defence forces under these restrictions to missions of this type. Following the initial deployment of the mission, a further request can then be made to talk about a specific mission, as is the case with the Mali mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U35	Any questions? There are no questions. Thank you, Urmas Reinsalu! Aivar Riisalu, vice-chairman of the National Defence Commission, for a co-report!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U36	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! The National Defence Committee discussed this draft. By decision of the Riigikogu, pursuant to § 8 (11) of the International Military Cooperation Act, the limit of the number of Estonian Defence Forces who may participate in the work of the international military headquarters in the operational area at the start of a new operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) and the European Union. The Riigikogu gives such a mandate only to participate in new operations and this does not apply to ongoing operations. The Government of the Republic submits the draft decision of the Riigikogu and the limit for the members of the Defence Forces is determined on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu for each calendar year. According to the draft under discussion, the 2014 limit is up to five members of the Defence Forces. The National Defence Committee considers that contributing to the new military operations of NATO and the European Union is Estonia's priority and is directly due to Estonia's membership of NATO and the European Union. Estonia also participates in decisions to start new operations led by these organisations. The Commission discussed the draft before sending it to first reading at its meeting on 11 November. This discussion was attended by Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu, Counsellor Kuno Peek of the Department of Defence and Operations of the Ministry of Defence and Specialist Berit Marksoo. On 5 November, we also visited the General Staff of the Defence Forces, where the Defence Forces gave us an immediate overview of the meaning and nature of this mission. At its meeting on 11 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to appoint a speaker to act as rapporteur for the Commission. At the same time, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft in question be included for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 19 November 2013. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop reading the draft under discussion and to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the draft be fixed by the deadline for submitting amendments. a 2 December at 11 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U37	Thank you very much. Any questions? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 531. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a 2 December at 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U38	Agenda item 9 is the first reading of draft 526 of the Riigikogu's decision on the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces by the Government of the Republic in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peacebuilding Mission in Mali. To present the speech chair, Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic shall request an extension of the two Malian missions, the first of which shall be the European Union Training and Training Mission EUTM and the second shall be the United Nations Peace Mission. It is planned that up to 10 Defence Forces and up to two Defence Forces will participate in the European Union Training Mission next year and the United Nations Peace Mission. As a matter of fact, the European Union Training Mission currently has two staff members and six instructors involved in the training of Malian military personnel. On the UN peacekeeping mission, one of the staff officers is a military officer. After Estonia, together with its allies, ceased to participate in the European Union mission to combat piracy in Atalanta, Mali's training mission is becoming the most important mission of the European Union. With Estonia, 23 Member States contribute to this military operation. This is certainly important to us in the sense that Mali does not become a place of instability in its region or continent, and also because of its cooperation with its allies. I would also stress that neither of these missions is a battle mission, which means that our Defence Forces will not participate in the military activities of either the UN or the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U40	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I would like to ask Marianne Mikko, Member of the National Defence Committee for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U41	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As a Member State of the European Union, it is important for Estonia to contribute to the implementation of the European Union's common security and defence policy. To this end, in accordance with paragraph 1 of the draft, participation in the European Union Training Mission in Mali will be continued with up to ten Estonian Defence Forces. Today, this is the only European Union military mission in which Estonia participates, and as the Minister of Defence said, we are one of the 23 Member States of the European Union. As we know, the Estonian Defence Forces' ship defence team ended this year in May, namely the European Union's anti-piracy operation Atalanta on 24 May. However, if you come back to the mission in Mali, the Estonian Defence Forces, as has been said, will not participate in military operations. We don't have to worry about our men, they're training and counseling the Malian Armed Forces. According to point 2 of the draft, the participation of up to two of the Estonian Defence Forces' staff officers in the UN peacekeeping mission in Mali is extended to MINUSMA. In this respect, the main task of the staff officers shall be to participate in planning and advising the training of the Malian units. It is important to know and to point out that point 3 of the draft provides for the possibility of increasing the upper limit for staff during the rotation period to 20 members of the Defence Forces within one month of the arrival in Mali of the members of the Defence Forces taking part in the rotation. The draft relates to the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 5 November at the Defence Forces General Staff, where the Commission received an overview from the representatives of the Defence Forces of the international missions of the Estonian Defence Forces, including the situation in Mali, and the readiness to continue the aforementioned European Union and UN missions. The National Defence Committee decided s. a At the meeting on 11 November, by consensus, the Riigikogu Board is invited to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 19 November. The rapporteur for the draft was appointed here. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft under discussion. On the basis of § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu that the draft be fixed by the deadline for submitting amendments. a 2 December at 11 a.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U42	Thank you very much. You have questions. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U43	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Listening to you as well as to the Minister and looking at the map of where Mali is located, I find it very difficult and difficult to understand in my limitations why we have to go to the heart of Africa with our people and how we will then protect the Estonian state and the European Union with these 10 or 20 people there. It's kind of strange. I didn't get that kind of support or explanation from either of your reports. Maybe you'll explain a little bit more about why we still have to be there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U44	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that belonging to the European Union and NATO has been important to the Estonian state in the past and will be important in the future. Therefore, if the European Union has decided to declare and form a truly important military mission, I see no reason why Estonia should stay out of this. Besides, as the Minister of Defence said and I say, the Estonian Defence Forces are not where the military activities take place. We are not the French who were in a real war in the northern regions. We are in the capital of Bamako, in other words, our instructors and officers are quite safe. That is my answer, and I also say that we did not discuss this issue in this form in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U45	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U46	Thank you, honourable waitress, for an interesting answer. I also listened to the Secretary of Defense and your presentation, but my attitude as a wife and mother to all these missions and military trainings is as follows. Should the European Union and the whole of society not change their course of action on missions in order not to train those who are fighting but to train those who are training their children who contribute to the social sphere, etc.? Could there be any shift in the world so that warfare, people are more educated, reasonable, and the whole world becomes more peaceful?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U47	Thank you very much. As a woman from this very chair, I say to a woman that one of the solutions is that there are more women among the decision-makers. If there are more women among defence ministers, more women among prime ministers, more women among presidents, they will feel what stability and the need for it all over the world are. Women do not send their sons or their husbands to war with a mild heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U48	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U49	Thank you very much. Without being a woman, I'm asking you the last question. Is it not because Estonia participates in these civilian missions and makes a huge contribution precisely so that there are no wars and also helps civil society, but unfortunately these missions do not go through the Riigikogu? Only military missions take place through the Riigikogu and therefore civil contributions are not taken into account in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U50	That's a good point. Since the question was of a more general philosophy, I also answered in a more general philosophy. But thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U51	No further questions. Thank you very much, Marianne Mikko. Any requests? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 526. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a 2 December at 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U52	Our 10th item on the agenda today is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO response forces' by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Urmas Reinsalu, Secretary of Defense of the Chair, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U53	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! NATO's response force is a NATO unit in rapid response readiness. The aim is to use it for crisis management operations both inside and outside NATO territory. It was used, for example, in regulating the earthquake crisis in Pakistan and helping people, as well as in the case of Hurricane Katrina, and, if necessary, it will be used to launch operations under Article 5, i.e. collective self-defence. That is why this mission is certainly of particular importance in guaranteeing our security. The NATO Rapid Response Force should also be those who come to the aid of the Member States in the event of a military crisis. As a member of NATO, Estonia has constantly contributed to these forces. The government is proposing to contribute next year to a mine hunter and a ship crew of up to 40 members, and our warship should be ready to proceed to the operation within five days. In 2010, together with the other Baltic countries, we sent up to 240 Defence Forces to a joint Baltic battalion. We intend to put out a common Baltic battalion in the future to ensure NATO's rapid response capability. It is recalled that the recent NATO exercise in Poland and Latvia, Steadfast Jazz, was designed precisely to train the joint action of these rapid reaction forces. I ask Parliament to support this method of military cooperation that is important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U54	Any questions? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Secretary of Defense Urmas Reinsalu! I would like to ask Lauri Laas, Member of the National Defence Commission for a co-report!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U55	Madam President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading. a at its meeting on 11 November. Mr Urmas Reinsalu, Minister for Defence, Mr Kuno Peek, Adviser to the Department of Defence and Operations of the Ministry of Defence, and Mr Berit Marksoo, specialist took part in the session. The draft is also related to the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 5 November to the Defence Forces General Staff, where the Commission received an overview from the representatives of the Defence Forces of what is happening in the international missions areas with the participation of Estonian Defence Forces, including the preparation of the Estonian unit to participate in NATO's response forces. More about the general principles of the draft. Estonia's participation in NATO's response forces is due to NATO membership. All NATO Member States contribute to the NRF, except Iceland, which simply does not have its own defence forces. The NRF is also an important tool for the rapid launch of NATO's collective self-defence operations, should this be necessary. Therefore, participation in the NRF is also related to Estonia's security. NATO's response forces may be used in a collective self-defence operation under the NATO Treaty as set out in Chapters VI and VII of the Charter of the United Nations. The use of the NRF is decided unanimously by the NATO Council, which means that the use of the NRF can only take place with the consent of Estonia. On the basis of § 98 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the National Defence Committee decided, with the consent of the initiator of the draft, to submit the draft to the first reading as amended, together with the explanatory memorandum. For more information on the reasons for submitting the draft as amended, please refer to the first reading. Aivar Engel, the head of the Secretary-General of the National Defence Committee, pointed out that by 2013 up to 20 members of the Defence Forces have been appointed to the NRF by decision of the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu could not extend their mandate by 2014 with a draft decision pending before the Riigikogu, as according to the draft, one mine hunter from the Estonian Defence Forces will be part of the NRF in 2014 with up to 40 members of the Defence Forces. The current mandates of the Estonian Defence Forces unit in the NRF have been all one-off decisions of the Riigikogu, which are not to be extended. In the light of the above, the text and title of the draft were amended. The draft also made linguistic corrections by raising the English abbreviations for the second place in the text of the NRF and typing it in print. The Commission was asked whether conscripts were taking part in the mission. The answer was yes. The fact that conscripts can take part in such a relatively complex mission on a ship's crew in the same way as professional members of the armed forces shows, in my opinion, the good quality of the training of our conscripts. The National Defence Committee decided s. At the meeting on 11 November 2013, by consensus, the Riigikogu Board was asked to include the draft for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 19 November 2013 and to propose that the Riigikogu stop the first reading. On the basis of § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be set. a 2 December at 11 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U56	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions, it's clear. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 530. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 530 amendments. a 2 December at 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U57	Our 11th item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Water Act and the Waste Act initiated by Liisa-Ly Pakosta, Peep Aru, Siim Kabritsa and Tõnis Kõiv. For a presentation, please address a member of the Riigikogu, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U58	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Twenty years ago, the quality of drinking water was largely poor in Estonia. Sewage was collected in many places, but it was not cleaned. It can therefore be said that there were no problems with the treatment of sewage sludge either, as in many cases the sediment was simply not present. Well, it was, but it was often diverted back into the wilderness. During the last 20 years, hundreds of millions have been invested in cleaning and managing drinking water to consumers, and then in waste water collection and treatment. There is now a third step to the disposal of sewage sludge. First, a description of the problem. The lives of people in the towns of Viljandi, Pärnu, Rakvere and Kohtla-Järve are disturbed by the smell spreading from the sewage treatment plant. Concerns have been expressed for years in the press, and it can be said that the total number of people affected by the smell is around 60,000. Thus, depending on the weather conditions, 60,000 people suffer from the smell of a sewage treatment plant. This smell comes from composting sewage sludge. Composting is known to be an aerobic process where the compostable material is sewage sludge to which biologically degradable support agents are added. The gas emitted by composting, which we feel smell, can be reused, for example for maintaining or raising the temperature in the process, as well as for producing heat or electricity. Three types of composting are distinguished. The auncomposting process takes place in the field. Compost saunas are mixed for better access to air and for a more even completion of the whole compost at a certain time. A large area of land is needed for composting, and the stench released during the process spreads into the atmosphere. At the same time, pathogenic organisms may not be destroyed under our climatic conditions - winter, low temperatures - because the process has a duration of 8 to 12 months. The second type of composting is stacked composting, the principle of which is broadly the same as for auncomposting. The third type is vessel composting, which takes place at a certain air and moisture content and temperature in a closed reactor. Tunnel and drum reactors are used. The technology is flexible, the process has a short duration of 2 to 3 weeks, but the product needs to be cooked after 3 to 4 months. The gas emitted by composting can be used to maintain the reactor temperature. In Estonia, the most common way of handling sewage sludge is auncomposting. It is the cheapest, even though it spreads the bad smell that disturbs people and the result is not guaranteed quality. Another problem with compost is recycling and the quality of the compost involved. Fluctuating quality reduces the interest of recipients in compost and, of course, the smell of water companies is also a problem because their customers are dissatisfied. However, the main concerns of water companies are that it is difficult to re-use compost stabilized by auncomposting. Since the quality of the compost is not uniform, there is a lot of bureaucracy and an emotional failure is added, it is difficult to get rid of the sludge, perhaps to recycle it. In this way, compost, in fact, tends to accumulate in storage, which forces water companies to apply for a waste permit for this warehouse, because if the compost is in stock for more than three years, the warehouse must be transformed into a waste facility, i.e. a waste permit. But we all understand that this is not the solution, because sewage sludge needs recovery, and the application for a waste permit only creates additional bureaucracy and costs. Water companies would be happy to invest in new technologies, but we would point out that all existing investments in obtaining clean water or collecting waste water have been made mainly with the support of financial assistance received by the European Union or before accession to the European Union. The so-called smell-free technologies, where the process of handling sewage sludge is anaerobic, the resulting smell, or gas, is collected and transformed into energy, are completely available, but they naturally cost money. Larger companies, such as Tallinn Water and Tartu Waterworks, have already taken this route, but for others it would be wise to solve the problem in its entirety. In other words, water companies need public support both for a comprehensive solution and for investments, as there are problems with the handling of sewage sludge, both large and small. The compost of stabilised sewage sludge will also continue to be subject to ice and therefore to the special attention of the State. It is not conceivable to invest in any plant for the installation of new technologies, because even with the support of the European Union such an investment would be too costly and impractical. This is why the Estonian Environmental Research Centre, in its 2010 study entitled 'Developing a strategy for the treatment of sewage sludge', proposed the establishment of a network of regional waste water treatment plants to solve the problem of the treatment of sewage sludge from both medium and small plants. The Ministry of the Environment is conducting a socio-economic study on the network of regional waste water treatment plants. In order to address the problem, the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu decided on 4 June 2012 that it is necessary to draw up a report on the possibilities for reducing environmental degradation caused by sewage sludge. The report was completed by the end of last year and endorsed by the Commission in January this year. I would like to draw three main conclusions from the report. Firstly, to establish a network of regional waste water treatment plants to mitigate the risks associated with the treatment of sewage sludge. Secondly, preference should be given to methane tanks in the regional waste water treatment plant in the selection of the technological process. Thirdly, in the case of methane tanks, there is a lack of environmental degradation that undermines people's quality of life, as well as a high-quality compost. The purpose of the draft law amending the Water Act and the Waste Act is to achieve the negative environmental impact of sewage installations, in particular the reduction of the smell and thereby to ensure a cleaner living environment, including through the recovery of high-quality sewage sludge. In addition, the draft will contribute to the development of the sector by providing water companies with clear time frames for technology development in order to motivate them to reduce the environmental degradation resulting from their activities and to upgrade the technology used. Understandably, the legislator also provides input to the executive in order to prepare the necessary operational programmes and sources of financing to ensure compliance with the requirements of the law in the most reasonable way. The first amendment to the draft concerns the form of regulation, or regulation. At present, this description is given in the regulation, or the legislation below, and the amendment is intended to bring it to the level of the law. According to the second amendment, the maximum number of discharges of sewerage buildings according to the type of building is 5 to 150 metres. The scope of the dune has been determined on the basis and against the background of extremely dangerous sources such as hazardous oil products (25 to 150 metres) and the building of dangerous chemicals (5 to 30 metres). The current discharges of waste water treatment plants range from 200 to 300 metres. Such extensive developments have led to a situation where the water company may not be sufficiently motivated to introduce the best technology, to innovate technology. This amendment will give impetus to the development of the sector, as it sets realistic limits beyond which negative environmental impacts must not extend. The existence of problems motivates water companies to act, develop technology, also introduce simpler measures to limit the spread of smell, limit the spread of harmful effects. All of this will result in a reduction in the need for large bodies, and we will achieve our goal of improving people's quality of life, because the negative effects will not reach them as much as they do now. The fourth amendment provides for a transitional period of five and ten years respectively, i.e. the requirement will enter into force on 1 July 2018 for sewage treatment plants with a load of more than 100000 people equivalent and on 1 July 2023 for sewage treatment plants with a load of more than 10000 people equivalent. There are two kinds of effects during the transition period. On the one hand, the people suffering from the smell are, as has been said, 60000 in specific information and, on the other hand, companies are aware of the time period by which high-quality sediment treatment must be guaranteed, the technology updated where necessary and the negative effects of over-the-counter effects have ended, because the need for sewage sludge recovery will not decrease over the years, but will increase. The question is, what do people think about this five - and - ten - year term, whether it is short or long for them? But I think that if there is a specific deadline, there is something to be expected and hoped for, because there has not been one so far. The amendments to the Waste Act in question duplicate, essentially, the amendments to the Water Act. The purpose of this draft law is to save the smell of waste water treatment plants in several Estonian cities, Viljandi, Pärnu, Kohtla-Järve, Rakvere and others. The smell disturbs people, worsens their environment and the business climate, lowers human dignity. The law would set a specific deadline, on the one hand, to reduce the spread of the smell, on the other hand, to improve the techniques used to handle sewage sludge and to produce high-quality compost. The draft thus triggers both water companies and ministries to prepare, secure funding and help implement changes that would result in high-quality sewage sludge compost, which can be fully recovered, and that would solve the problem of people's perturbing smell. The calculation of the cost of the bill has been drawn up with the help of the Ministry of the Environment and is based on the assumption that the change theoretically affects 22 cleaning plants serving residents and three industrial plants. The cost of investments depends on the technical solutions chosen. The choice of a technical solution is left to the implementing bodies, i.e. the economic operators. The operator can build sediment treatment closed or move to another location or improve the efficiency of existing technology, e.g. by using a higher percentage of support material in the case of auncomposting, by building a landscaped soil pool to prevent the spread of the smell, etc. In areas where no unpleasant smell has been dug, nothing needs to be changed for this reason, but it is still necessary to produce high-quality compost that can be reclaimed and not left in storage. As the collection of sewage sludge into storage, i.e. the inability to divert it to recovery, is a real problem and the smell is also a real problem in many Estonian cities, it is estimated that it is still necessary to invest 25 million euros. One of the fundamental principles of civil society is that everyone keeps their operational effects within the limits of their property. This is not always possible, of course, and in this case it will be helpful if the law provides for the extent to which one landowner may affect the other. With this bill, we are taking a long step towards civil society, where some people do not have to suffer unduly for the provision of services necessary for life. I ask my colleagues to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U59	Thank you very much. You also have a number of questions. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U60	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, When I now listened to this report, which mainly talked about small towns, not to mention Tallinn, and I also read today's Äripäev, I think that the smell of corruption that comes from this bill is stronger than the smell that comes from the treatment of waste water. Do you really think that the EUR 10,000 donated to the IRL deserves that the tariffs of Tallinn's water users rise by at least 5 to 10% and that citizens would pay for it in millions and millions of years?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U61	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U62	Thank you, my good colleague, for the question. Everyone asks based on their own understandings and answers according to their own understandings. It is totally unacceptable to me that the problems of 60000 people living outside Tallinn are being reduced and directed to the issue of only one city, capital, only one company, or even people living in one area, or landowners. There is also life outside Tallinn. People living in Viljandi, Rakvere, Pärnu and Kohtla-Järve are also people and their interests, their right to live a life worthy of human dignity, and the smellless life must also be thought of. And these are the people who, in their minds, have this bill written down. This is, by the way, signed before Midsummer Day and now handed over in the autumn, and any other theories will remain on the conscience of these inventors and distributors.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U63	Thank you, President of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you've read the opinions that have been sent on this bill. In its opinion, the Health Board states that the cost of this draft is clearly underestimated, i.e. this EUR 25 million is not sufficient. There are also examples that the Paljassaare waste water treatment plant alone costs EUR 50 million. Have you discussed with the authors of the bill what the real cost is? And I can't find any increase in current production costs in your bill, which is on the side of the opinion. What could be the increase in current expenditure?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U64	Thank you for your question. The first part of the question goes back to the fact that the main concern is Tallinn and Paljassaare. He's not. The view of the Health Board has also been based on the freely stated figures of one company, which, as we know, in the so-called legal process, will find a clear consideration and a very critical assessment, at least in the Competition Authority proceedings, as long as there is a really large amount of money to be spent, although there is no need for it. As regards the impact of possible investments on the price of water services, this table is not in the draft, but it has been drawn up during the draft procedure, it is entirely there and it will probably be discussed in the second reading or in the preparation of the second reading. It can be taken out from this table that, if the investment is made with European Union support, as all investments in water management have so far been made, the increase in fixed costs that can be expected is between ten cents per square metre in the middle. I would stress here that it is not even possible for water treatment to be free of charge; it is to be paid for. Sewage collection and purification are not free of charge, it also has to be paid for. It is also necessary to pay for the proper handling, safe and re-use of sludge resulting from waste water treatment, i.e. it also costs money. During the drafting of the report, scientists at the University of Life Sciences have even pointed out that if the cost of water purification is more or less half of the total cost of this business, then the other half could be sediment treatment. I think it's a little far from practice and a little overrated, but in any case, sediment treatment has to do with the costs, there's nothing to hide.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U65	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U66	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague Kõiv! These purification plants smell the same everywhere in the world, it is no worse or better than the rest of Europe. That's why they're built as far away from residential areas as possible, which is why they're in the waste land and in the industrial zone. The only ones interested in reducing the volume are the company that has ordered a detailed plan and the well-known design company that has tried to draw and coordinate this plan, where even 48 dwellings have been drawn in the sanitary protection area. In 2010, the plan was introduced to the Health Board and rejected, in 2011 Tallinna Vee was visited and the plan was rejected. Now they have ended up in the Riigikogu with you. Maybe you'll let us know who's in charge of the detailed plan and who's in charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U67	Thank you for your question. I think it would be appropriate to answer this in the words of Mr Jõks, attorney at Soraainen's law firm, ordered by Tallinn Water, when he answered the question of Mr Karel Rüütel at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment. Karel Rüütel asked how the adoption of the draft would affect the owners of properties located on this peninsula. No, the question was not even how he would be affected, the question was whether he would give them more rights and opportunities and improve their situation. The lawyer's answer was no, he doesn't affect them, he doesn't give them anything more. Of course, I don't have the same knowledge of all kinds of planning and other things as you do. Some things sound completely novel to me here, because we have not covered or touched them in any way in the preparation and processing of the report by the Committee on the Environment, nor in the preparation and preparation of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U68	Thank you very much. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U69	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You're talking about numbers, so I'll tell you about statistics. Even of all the stink problems in Estonia, the non-existent proportion of waste water treatment plants is 1.8%. In terms of numbers, this means that out of 943 complaints, only 17. I also wonder how we are willing to spend hundreds of millions of euros to solve this really pseudo-problem. Contrary to you, there is no justification for me that this is the money of the taxpayer in the European Union. Do you really think that this is the most important issue in the Republic of Estonia right now, and the European Union's money must also be directed to resolve it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U70	So what do I say? I really wonder why you, a good questioner, think that there are no people elsewhere in Estonia, that you do not have to think about them, the only influence and the only interest is in Tallinn. And to blame the people who suffer the smell for not calling the environmental service, but calling the water company they know and know and where the smell comes from, calling the government because they know who's responsible for it, who should be responsible for it, I would say that it's inappropriate and rude to blame these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U71	Thank you. Please, Marika-Tuus Song!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U72	Thank you. Good waitress! It's not too hard to see the real reasons for this legislative amendment. Business Day describes how IRL's major donor on Margus Linnamäe has a serious interest in using the land still under the sanitary protection zone to build a commercial and residential area. Äripäev also describes how only a few days after the donation to IRL two members of the IRL and two members of the Reform Party of the Riigikogu will pass the corresponding bill. In this sense, however, this transaction is extremely transparent. Why, then, is it done when the Chancellor of Justice has opposed it and, I very much emphasise, also the Health Protection Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U73	Thank you for your question. I've already mentioned the pink leaf a little bit, but maybe I didn't mention enough. Perhaps your question is addressed to Tõnu Kõiv, who is the author of this pink business paper? After all, what can be read on it shows the quality or reliability of this whole story. Yes, it is a matter of conscience whether 60,000 people with their concerns are important or not. Perhaps in Tartumaa or Jõgevamaa this problem is not so great and you may not know it, but it is worth going to Kohtla-Järve, Rakverre, Pärnu and Viljandi. I am not suggesting that we do this now, of course, not now that it stinks. It starts to smell in the summer when the weather gets warm and the aerobic sedimentation processes start working. That's when there's a smell, a stench that spreads to people. These people really exist there, they live there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U74	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U75	... the distance from residential buildings is usually 300 to 500 metres.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U76	Thank you. A good colleague from the Committee on the Environment, Mr Tõnis. You're kind of a knife walker. At the beginning of the summer, you came up with the topic of opening Lake Ülemiste and now there is a very sensitive issue once again concerning the amendment of the Water Act. In a broad sense, everyone really agrees with you that the smell problem must be alleviated, the smell must be reduced, and it must be combated. But in addition to the smell, there is another very sensitivistic thing - these are a variety of infectious agents that travel in the same way when handling mud. The aim is to reduce the size of the body to 5 to 150 metres, especially for people who should start living close to it in the future. The Germans have done a variety of scientific analyses and there are...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U77	Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U78	Thank you, my good colleague, for the question and for the reference to pathogens. Indeed, if we look at a very old directive such as the Urban Waste Water Treatment Directive since 1991, Article 10 of that directive makes clear: Member States shall ensure that urban waste water treatment plants built to comply with Articles 4, 5, 6 and 7 are designed, constructed, operated and maintained in such a way that their operation is adequately ensured in all normal local weather conditions. This actually means that aerobic sediment treatment needs to function, so that the pathogens die and do not return to nature after a certain plus temperature, several dozen Celsius plus degrees. It is not possible to guarantee this even now when it is 3-4 degrees outside, not to mention when it is 3-4 or 20 degrees cold outside. So we haven't taken that step yet in order to get the sediment treatment done, and we still need to take that step. And if we have taken this step, we will get to what Mr Vasilyev said on the end here, i.e. there are sewage treatment plants everywhere in Europe and they will behave the same everywhere. Yes, I have also seen various waste water treatment plants, both on the pictures and this summer, and in the past, and I say that they have one very big difference that stands out not in terms of location, they are still located where they are built, and no one is going to rebuild or rearrange them. They stand out because there are traditionally some physical barriers around it, there are walls, there are landscaping, there is something that prevents the effects of the cleaners on the one hand, but on the other hand it can also be taken to mean that the person who lives there, or even as I drive by, is less visual pollution. And I would like to mention one more thing in this question-to-answer: I do not think that anyone today, or following the adoption of this law, would tend to live next to the sewage treatment plant. We're talking about the people who are already living there, waiting in fear for the summer, because then it starts to stink again, you can't go outside again.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U79	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U80	Thank you. Good colleague! I come back to the committee meeting, where I asked you a question about the government's opinion. I would like this question to sound in this Chamber too, and so that our colleagues know that the government discussed this issue, but unfortunately there was no affirmative or negative assessment of the draft that you wrote. How do you comment on the government's opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U81	Thank you, my good colleague, for a good question both in the Commission and here. Yes, there is a paper on this draft that says: as decided at the meeting of the Government of the Republic on 24 October 2013, we announce that the Government of the Republic will refrain from giving an opinion on the draft Law amending the Water Act and the Waste Act, initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Peep Aru, Siim Kabrits, Tõnis Kõiv and Liisa-Ly Pakosta, 483. At the same time, it was known at that time what the same Soraainen Law Office had written to all of us in a single paper. It was also known that both the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of the Interior had expressed their support for this draft. Why didn't you come up with a position from the government? However, the reason is probably that a negative position, as could not be given, would have required a re-examination of the plans already made in view of the next budgetary perspective. It must be acknowledged that the desire for these plans to be adjusted, our draft really does bear, and it is in this direction that the sediment treatment will be driven by investment measures. Whether it is a measure to develop urban water management infrastructure or an energy saving measure, there are several options, the main thing is that there should be a boost.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U82	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U83	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I do not have such acute questions as my fellow Members, I have such clarifications. Your speech said that this bill was signed before Midsummer Day, but here's the anniversary of September 17. Please tell me, since when do we have Midsummer Day in the second half of September? It's not really a question, of course. I have a completely different question. Normally, when talking about defending the interests of 60000 people from the high court, it is signed by political groups or the Government of the Republic. There are just four members of two political groups among the signatories to this draft. A genuine tank truckage, four tankers, maybe the dog is still wandering somewhere. Why did the political groups not take the initiative to submit this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U84	Good colleague! First of all, why it was clearly indicated that the signing took place before Midsummer Day. But that's when it happened. However, before the spring, we had long sessions and big disputes about the PGS, passions were set on fire, and the initiators felt it would have been wrong if we had quietly handed over our draft in this passion. That's not what I wanted. Besides, nothing would have happened directly during the summer. Though it might be said in retrospect that maybe it would have been a good sign for those people who suffered the stench through the summer. But they were informed in a different way. I want to emphasise one thing. We have read in the press two facts that are true, taken separately, when the bill was handed over and when someone donated something to someone. But putting these facts together is arbitrary and gives only a negative and false impression. Why did the four delegates put forward this bill, not 40 or more? Why didn't both groups present it? Unfortunately, I have to admit that this problem still concerns a clear minority in Estonia. 60000 people are very large, but it is not 600,000, it is not 130,000. This is not a problem for the whole of Estonia. We understand that very well. But especially those people who have signed here, they understand very well that this is a problem that needs to be solved. People are asking them, and the people they're asking are actually still in this room. But we wanted to stop at the coalition ambassadors. I'm sorry, colleagues on the other side.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U85	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U86	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague Kõiv! None of us are in favour of the smell and want to suffocate the inhabitants, except that the products of all our lives are in the sewers. If you didn't talk about reducing the sanitary protection area, it would be a win-win situation, but somehow the project is specifically linked to the sanitary protection area. Forty-eight homes! And you're already known for reducing sanitary areas. When you wanted to reduce the sanitary reserve of Lake Ülemiste, the story ended with Tallinn Water inviting you to visit England to see how the water reservoirs are protected there. You went there, as a member of the Riigikogu, probably, and we would also like to hear about your great adventures in England. What did you see? What did you find out? Right now, in two minutes, you have a chance to explain to us how this whole thing was in England.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U87	Good questioner! I don't think I've only got two minutes. I have even more time to answer this fine question, but I am afraid that the President may interrupt me at some point, because this does not specifically concern the draft law amending the Water Act and the Waste Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U88	Let's stick to the bill, really!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U89	That's right, we'll stick to the bill! But as for the beginning of the question, I have met separately the managers of water companies from members of the Estonian Water Association and also participated in the meeting of their legislative working group. I asked them several times that if you don't like reducing the drain, because it forces you to spend too much, propose another measure that would have the same effect on your activities, both in investing in technologies and in reducing smell. Offer it, describe it, maybe it's better. I have not received any alternative offers, and there was no other proposal to do anything else. For me, it's not the solution that let's not do anything, just say it could be different. I recall what an official of the Ministry of the Environment said during this same report at a seminar. He was not challenged by any water company. His message was that water companies put a network fence around their territory after the state explicitly demanded that it be put in place. Unfortunately, we have to admit that we have to say clearly that this has to be the case, that some result has to be achieved. And then it will be achieved, otherwise it will most likely not. To conclude, I would also like to say to my good colleague that there was no mention of reducing either the area or the sanitary protection area in the case of the reservoir. We were talking about changing this regime because we are not protecting the reservoir from people; we are simply protecting our common drinking water body.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U90	Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U91	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, There's no way I can figure out how reducing the back of the head reduces the smell. My logic says the opposite: increasing the size of the head reduces the smell. Have I got something wrong? Building a sanitary zone is not an obligation, it is an opportunity. There is no shortage of land in Estonia. Or is that an obligation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U92	Thank you. Of course, reducing or increasing the flow does not change the strength of the smell. The smell occurs in a certain technological process. The question is, are we just gonna let him get airborne or catch him? Reducing the kerb will force water companies to invest in catching the smell, or gas, and making it work usefully. Once this investment is made, the need for the current big one will disappear, and it will manage the smaller one. I stress again: the whole bill does not serve the interests of future residents, the interests of people who would like to move somewhere. Really, there is plenty of land in Estonia. The draft is aimed at protecting the rights and interests of people who are already living near a sewer building, not at the very side, but a little further away.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U93	Thank you. Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, I want to thank you and congratulate you for your years of dealing with this problem. This draft is now the first result of long-term work or a direct attempt by law to change the situation. I'm a little sorry we have to hear the ironing questions from the other side of the hall. One example is Rainer Vakra, who thinks it is a pseudo-problem. This has always been a very serious problem in Viljandi for years, and I think in other cities, except Tallinn. The seriousness of this is illustrated by the fact that the good social democrats, together with the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, have put a point in Viljandi's coalition agreement that this problem needs to be resolved. I have a specific question for you. In the Commission, the Social Democrats voted against the draft. So which one's gonna blow up the crowd, either Viljandi Social Democrats or here at Toompea? How do you feel? Unfortunately, there are no parties in the Chamber, so I can't ask them directly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U95	Thank you, my good colleague, for this question. It is, of course, difficult to assess before decisions are made in this Chamber and to see who thinks what and who decides how. So far, yes, the Social Democrats in the Commission have rather expressed their opposition to the draft. In front of the public, Rainer Vakra, who was nominated on the Social Democratic List, has denigrated this bill and considered the human problem to be nonexistent. But your question is very appropriate. One big boost to deal with this topic was given in September 2011 if I remember correctly the 'Ringview' show on the air, where Jüri Muttika spoke of the fact that the smell will be shut down by Viljandi folk, i.e. the technological process will be stopped. After the party, however, it is saddened to be put to work with greater intensity than it was before. In the light of this question, it can be said that when the Tallinians come to the folks, the air is cleaned up. That's a sad story!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U96	Thank you. Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! It is clear that the issue has to be addressed, and my suggestion is that we are dealing with this 300-metre-high problem. With regard to what the Committee on the Environment has done, we have drafted a report on the approach to this issue and it has been stated that there is a need for research into the network of regional waste water treatment plants. This logic coincides with the good practice of lawmaking, according to which socio-economic analyses are carried out first and then it is predicted how the draft or some provision might have an impact. What do you say to that? At the moment, we are dealing with specific amounts and it is known that we may not be able to get money to do this work in the new financial period in a seven-year perspective. What do you think of this proposal before and after the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U98	Thank you, my good colleague. Actually, we have one study and analysis done. This was already done by the Environmental Research Centre in 2010, and I mentioned it in my presentation. This study says that the solution to the problem of sediment treatment is the establishment of a network of regional waste water treatment plants. There's a schematic of that in the Stinky Report. An initial variant of possible locations has been made, where and how these stations could be located. It is 2013 and, if we did not have this report, there would also be no draft and perhaps we would not discuss it at all. In fact, the report was also designed to boost the research carried out, to give it more strength. The point of the current draft is that it is part of a whole exercise that supports processes that must, in any case, evolve. I do not believe that the next budgetary perspective, from 2014 to 2020 will not be supported to address this problem. I'm sure we'll do everything we can to get that support. And it is known to both of us that the Ministry of the Environment is dealing with the matter, that the application for a socio-economic study has already been submitted and will probably receive this support. This provides another input for a comprehensive solution to the problem. These activities do not contradict each other, rather complement each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U99	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U100	Thank you. Honourable waitress! If we read the purpose of this draft, we will see that the amendment is based on the report of the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu. We know that this report is born under your leadership, so you are indirectly responsible for it. And we also know the proverb that whoever pays will order the music. I therefore fail to understand how you can view this report as literally sacred in the Bible. On the other hand, you are saying that the particularities of small places must also be taken into account in this Chamber. I do not know whether it seems to me, or I have misunderstood here in almost two years, that you are the one who is constantly complaining when a matter of government is being dealt with in this Chamber, especially when it comes to the capital, why we are solving the issues of one city in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Now I see that some colleagues applaud when we resolve the issue of Viljandi in this big hall. Can you explain this to me, or have I misunderstood something?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U101	Thank you. It's like there was no question. I guess I have to repeat to you, my good colleague, that this is not just Viljandi's problem. It is also Pärnu's problem, it is Rakvere's problem, it is also Kohtla-Järve's problem, as a colleague knows who is sitting right in front of you. This is a problem for at least 60,000 people in Estonia. This is not of little importance to me, and I believe that there are still many colleagues in this Chamber for whom this is not a minor problem. However, there may be some who do not consider it important. There's nothing we can do about it, that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U102	Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U103	Thank you. In my opinion, reducing the back of the head clearly means a very high risk to people, even a health risk. According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, infectious agents spread around processing plants mainly in two ways: with water or through the air. The construction of water treatment plants would not completely exclude either of these options, but reducing the spread would increase the risk of infectious agents reaching people. Pathogens should take a shorter route and reach people at higher concentrations. In Germany, cleaners with fewer than 100,000 people have an area of 300 metres, if more than 100,000 people are concerned, must have at least 500 metres to housing and public buildings. In Germany, where research has been carried out by research institutes, have such requirements been imposed for no reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U104	Thank you for your question. In the case of waste water treatment, first of all, it is necessary to determine in which process dangerous substances or pathogens are most likely to spread, release into the air and where they occur or flow into the air. And when we look at it, we had more talk about it in the Commission, and it is worth reading about it in the smell report, in order to get more up to speed, we can see that the greatest danger lies in the treatment of sludge. The question is the handing-off, which occurs especially when the sediment treatment is open, i.e. the aerobic handling takes place on an open site. The danger arises when this process is not carried out properly and the pathogens get back into the wild with the mud from which the compost is produced. This creates a danger for humans. Dear colleague, you and I went to the central laboratory of the Estonian Environmental Research Centre Suur-Sõjamäe last week. The Committee on the Environment made an exit there. After all, we were told very clearly there that they have analysed compost produced from sewage sludge once it has been returned to nature and discovered pathogens on site in quite a number of cases, dangerous substances that should not exist. This problem exists, and it would not be avoided if we increased the cap by another 200 metres, but it is prevented if we invest in new technology and do the auncomposting properly. There are known examples of this in particular for smaller cleans, where at least for the support material, a shelter is used to prevent rainwater from pouring onto it, lowering the temperature, increasing moisture content and weakening the entire process. This solution is, of course, suitable for a smaller settlement where the volume of the methane tank is so small that it makes no sense to do so. There are different options, but the main goal is that sewage sludge must be handled in a high-quality and safe manner. If it is fully prepared and properly handled before it is recycled, there is no need for large bodies either. In Germany, too, there are over 200 metres and even smaller. They have been addressed to the Committee on the Environment and have been specifically described in one situation or another. So there are different examples, be they Germany, the United States, Austria, Finland, Spain or Sweden. We in Estonia need to think about our people first and foremost.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U105	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, On the first question, I wondered why four representatives of the coalition signed, not two political groups. I received the answer that the crowd affected by this was not enough. It can be understood that under certain circumstances more than 50 people, two factions at a time, are going to attack, but when it comes to a certain crowd, which is lower than a certain standard, the tank penguin attacks. It's a very interesting logic in itself. I think that journalists can easily find draft laws that have two political groups signed and which concern the interests of a few hundred or a thousand people. My question is, what is the norm? From what number will the delegates not sign on an individual basis, but two political groups? Is that $700,000, $100,000, $300,000?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U107	Thank you, my good colleague, for the question. It was scrolling and scrolling, and it finally came to an unexpected end. I don't know what that number is or could be. I'm glad you don't think the 60,000 people are many or few, nonexistent. They actually exist and their interests need to be represented, to have a decent life for them. Thank you for your attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U108	Siim Kabrits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have to admit that, as a draft author, I signed it, especially in view of the long-term concerns of the people of Viljandi. I've never met Margus Linnamäe or discussed the smell of waste water on Paljassaare. Question to you, good Tõnis: Have you ever met Margus Linnamägi and discussed the waste water issues on Paljassaare?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U110	Thank you, my good colleague, for the question and for the explanation of why you signed before Midsummer Day. But when I answer you, I can say what you say. I have not met the person you mentioned or discussed this bill in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U111	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I agree with you that the smell problem exists for people who have built their home near a waste water treatment plant, including in Põlva, for example. But the solution to the problem is definitely not reducing the size of the problem. What is the link between the potential money from the European Union and the reduction of the money from the EU?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U113	Thank you for your question. The aim is not, in fact, to reduce the size of the body. The treatment of sewage sludge must be made of such quality that a large volume is not needed. Various measures must be taken to ensure that the effects of this process, including environmental degradation, do not go beyond a smaller area. Therefore, with regard to the connection you have asked for, it is important that we have to bring our sediment treatment to a high level in all parts of Estonia, not only in Põlva, but also in other waste water treatment plants already mentioned here and not yet mentioned. And we may have smaller cleaning devices completely excluded from attention, which is a poorly acknowledged problem in Estonia. Also, a number of cleaning equipment with less than 10,000 people equivalents of pollution is not working well; the mud treatment there is not exactly what it should be. So what do we say? Let's say the problem is too small to stand out somehow and make us look for a solution. But it is also possible to solve the problem of small equipment in waste water treatment by making a network of regional waste water treatment plants. Somewhere in one or two places in the county, sewage sludge is brought together, including from smaller treatment plants, and the quality of the process of smaller plants is ensured. A sufficient volume of sludge is also provided at the regional station to allow the use of the methane tank and modern technologies for the treatment of the sludge.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U114	Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Before you said that the interest of water companies is weak, there has been no proposal for a draft law. The week before last, when there was a general meeting of the Estonian Water Association, a specific proposal was made there, as far as I know, with the content of the proposal: to remove the requirement to reduce the volume from the bill and set a specific date for the construction of the collection squares. Is this information wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U116	Thank you, my good colleague, for the question. No, this information isn't wrong. Your reference to what I said wasn't quite correct. I have asked the Estonian Association of Water Enterprises and its members, which could be an alternative means of influencing them instead of reducing it. They haven't worked anything out. Indeed, they have written a letter and offered various things to which you referred. They have also ordered an analysis from Soraainen's law firm, which speaks on 19 pages from a lawyer's perspective that some of the provisions of the draft are questionable and could be better formulated in some way, etc. It is clear that it is always possible to order opinions from a lawyer for money, but I would say that it is also possible to find places to improve the draft, to change the wording so that the standards, objectives and obligations can be more clearly written for businesses. That's the plan. We certainly take into account the proposals made by the Association of Estonian Water Enterprises, the Association of Estonian Cities, the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, as well as several other proposals that have already come to us and which we will probably continue to receive.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U117	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U118	Thank you. I do not understand why those who do not support reduction are trying to label them as people who do not want to reduce the effects of waste water treatment. Have you thought of such a compromise to avoid reducing the drain, but to try to build up waste water treatment plants?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U119	Thank you for your question. In fact, there is no requirement in the draft that cleaners be built up. It is proposed to provide that in a densely populated area the treatment of sludge in waste water treatment plants with a pollution load of more than 10000 people equivalents is permitted only in a sealed container, which is one option, in a building, another option, or otherwise. This is the third open opportunity to prevent environmental disruption from spreading across borders. When handling sewage sludge in the building, the ventilation air must be cleaned as prescribed by the law on ambient air protection. Of course, we can ask why this is not already provided for. That would be a good question, but who are we asking? You can ask me, but I can't answer why it hasn't been done. I know people are suffering from the smell and asking when they're going to do something about it. I can see from media publications (e.g. the Virumaa Journal, Pärnu Postimees, Sakala or the North Coast) that journalists write that there is a smell, but dealing with it is unwilled. Who curses the government, who sends evil words towards the water company. The problem is unsolved. I see a clear attitude in this fight against reducing the back of the head so that all the other requirements will allow us to continue to live in the same way, but this provision on reducing the back of the head would not allow us to live in the same way. So it can't come. But in that case, nothing's gonna change.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U120	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In my understanding, it is quite wrong that only 60,000 people are affected by this bill. When it becomes a law, it affects almost all Estonian residents, at least those with central water supply. In fact, most people in Estonia lose because the water is more expensive for everyone and much more expensive. Who are the winners? The winners are 60000, who can smell a little less, but the main winner will be the developer who will be working near these devices, then they will be in Tallinn or Viljandi. However, it would be fair to talk about whose problems we are going to solve, either the problems of 60000 people, one or more developers, or the problems of most people in Estonia. That part of the report is missing. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U122	Good questioner! We are both so old that we remember the choice before the Estonian Government, the Riigikogu and other politicians about 15 years ago. This option was very simple: are we investing in environmental projects or are we not investing? Shall we clean up the drinking water, or shall we continue drinking the rusty water that reached our homes along the old broken pipes? Are we gonna collect the sewage or are we gonna run it straight into the river the way we've been? The former mayor of Tartu, Toomas Mendelson, said that the sewage in the city of Tartu is not a problem for Tartu, but a problem for Narva, because it flows there. I understand he's got friends, but I don't think that's right. We have invested together to clean up the drinking water and collect the waste water, now we shouldn't say, "Ah, what's up, let's go into nature with this compost a little bit of these pathogens, or it's not gonna happen to me, I'm away, and it's okay around me, there's a problem somewhere, I don't care. That's not the spirit. It is not the right approach that we are not worried that problems in some sector remain unresolved, because the number of people who would benefit from it is too low. By the way, they too should pay more for water and sewerage services later. The environment is a key word that we must not forget. Let us remind you once again that the sewage treatment plant combines everything we drain completely uncontrollable. It is the responsibility of the water undertaking to produce a controlled quality output from this completely uncontrollable input. There are two outputs: one is waste water, which goes directly to nature, the other is a compost produced from sediment, which also reaches nature. Water companies have a very responsibility to carry out, and we must support them in this and stress that the interests of people who are currently affected by all this activity, who cannot live a decent life, cannot be forgotten.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U123	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! Before you said there was a study in 2010. I'm sure you agree with me, Tõnis, that there is an overview of the waste water treatment in the Ministry of the Environment. I would like to emphasise once again that such a study, which also takes account of the socio-economic factor, has not been carried out, and that is why it is quite difficult to deal with this draft. But now my question. I've come to understand that the point of the dead is to prevent danger to human health in the event of possible ecstasies. Why does this bill want to put people's health at greater risk by reducing the size of the body?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U125	We are not putting human health at risk, but we are motivating water companies to invest in order to reduce the impact of their activities. And if their actions are less effective, we don't need much. And in my opinion, this study carried out by the Estonian Centre for Environmental Research cannot be viewed separately from the Ministry of the Environment. Ordering this study was a step by the Ministry of the Environment, and the whole study focused on not so much on the technological side as on the socio-economic side. All in all, it makes a good whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U126	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U127	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! It has become clear from the issues of both the opposition and the coalition that the stink problem exists in certain places in Estonia. But have the initiators also thought that perhaps the problem should be approached more locally or on an accrual basis? Perhaps we will dimenade over the matter if we change the Code of the whole of Estonia according to one bar. For example, Schöttl's records of one of the largest waste water treatment companies in Estonia show that compared to Soviet times, water use in Estonia has decreased two to three times, as toilets are more sustainable and water has become more expensive. Simply less water is used and therefore less sewage is produced. Is it meant that maybe it's more of a local problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U128	Thank you. That is a very good question and a very correct focus. I'll give it a two-part answer. It would be very easy to reply that the draft proposes three options: whether or not to handle waste water in a sealed container, there are some technological options in the building or in other ways. This 'other way' means that, after all, the water company can decide for itself what it considers most appropriate in view of local circumstances. Of course, there are clear rules that prevent environmental degradation from spreading across borders. The second part of the answer is that, of course, we must admit that people have started to save water, the less use. This is generally very welcome, only not seen by the water company. For a water company, this means two things. First, the decline in turnover and, secondly, that water is used less, but all the chemistry that is used in the household and in general is much more. Thus, the waste water that the operator has to deal with becomes'more powerful' every year and the operator's problem becomes more complex. For this reason, open aerobic treatment sites, or auncomposting sites, become increasingly unsuitable every year. In vain, scientists at the University of Tartu, the University of Earth and the Technical University have not confirmed during the drafting of the stink report that auncomposting is outdated technology. Other Europeans, or our more advanced neighbours, have not used this technology for decades, because firstly, it makes a smell, and secondly, the quality of this process cannot be controlled, and so the result may not always be safe. I say that, ultimately, the draft will also help water companies to solve the problems they are facing. I'm sure they'll understand when they get over their first emotion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U129	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The smell is certainly a problem, but neither the Water Company Association, the Health Board, the Cities Association, the Association of Rural Governments, nor our government have approved this draft. Why, though, if it's a very good bill? Lang has sometimes said here that the reform party's drafts are all very good. Maybe it's too soon and too expensive to start it all up? We have hundreds or thousands of problems. In addition, we want to take enough money from people to solve this problem. Perhaps it is too soon, and that is why these unions and companies do not support you?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U131	Thanks for admitting that smell is a problem. If at least this is the fruit of the debate in this Chamber, I am pleased. Yes, it is, of course, possible to say that the transitional period is not ten years, but 20 years. But that is actually what we say, among other things to ourselves, that if this is just some part of the people, then their concerns and problems are not very interesting to us. In addition, we will remain silent about the problems associated with the treatment of sewage sludge and confirm that we will deal with them sometime later. In other words, using the speech of the opposition: we will deal with it someday, after 2020, if we have to do all this for our money. Yeah, that's possible. Of course, I do not think that we will receive a cent of the European Union after 2020. I don't think we're going to be so good, we're going to be a net payer. But I would point out that delaying the resolution of problems will not eliminate them. Deferral very often only exacerbates problems and makes them more expensive in summary. That's why I don't think we should give up the plan. Five or ten years is, in fact, a very long time; we should not send people a message that you suffer an indefinite time; at first nothing will change. I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U132	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U133	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I've run out of time. I've got the other half of the question. With your answer, you actually got to where I wanted to go: to realize that the problem is different from region to region and that solutions can also be local. At the moment, we have the principle that there are certain requirements for treated waste water and, if something is above normal, very harsh fines will be imposed. Could it not be treated as if, for example, Viljandi, for example, had a problem, as has been the case here, the amount of these flying substances in the air would be measured and fined accordingly? After all, the local water company is obliged to handle the sewage so that the air is clean. Why apply new rules to everyone when you can choose a local solution that a local operator must guarantee the purity of the air in this area? What do you think of this option?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U134	Thank you for your question. This will allow for a little more substantive disengagement of this problem. Under this option, we would put all the difficulty of eliminating the problem only on those specific water companies where the problem is. And then it could only be narrowly resolved that the smell of environmental disturbance spread to people and harmed their living environment. At the same time we know that water companies know, the Ministry knows, and the whole Committee on the Environment knows, that there are also wider problems with the operation of sediment treatment. The result is not always high-quality. And the chances of solving this concern are we'd cut off with a local approach. So rather, we should try to solve the whole problem. After all, the necessary time has been given. Now from Viljandi and the suggestion that the city could set up its own methane tank would be nice and peaceful in the house. Unfortunately, Viljandi waste water is not enough for this purpose. At the same time, it is known that other waste water treatment plants in the county have the same problems with sediment treatment and recovery as Viljandi. They should be analysed together and resolved jointly. I will now move on to the European Union as a whole. For years, the quality requirements for compost produced from sewage sludge have been agreed at EU level. It is known that compost is produced in this way, ice and must be treated like ice. At the same time, it should be a product and should be considered as a product that can be sold. And, of course, in the case of a product, there is a presumption that clear quality requirements apply to it and that the product meets them. So far, despite long-term efforts, the quality requirements and conditions for sediment at EU level have not been agreed. I was more involved in this process than was the time for the report, or last year. The reason why no agreement has been reached is that national interests and natural conditions are so different that perceptions, starting points and, in some respects, the level of development cannot easily be found in common. But I hope that it will be found one day, and certainly the time will come, hopefully, in the near future rather than in the distant future, when compost produced from sewage sludge is sold in garden shops like any other compost soil.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U135	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Having listened to you very carefully for quite a while, I would like to sum up a moment you have pointed out. The Government of the Republic did not give its position because it did not want to assume the relevant obligations. This is because there is no certainty in the next EU funding period that such an investment can be financed. I therefore have the following question. Our previous great promise was to support water and sewerage companies across Estonia in order to comply with the new requirements of the directive. And then, oh surprise, quite a number of companies were faced with the problem that our promise became their responsibility, but the money was not allocated to this job. Do you now have the hope that things will go a little better, or that eventually, loans will still be taken and people will pay for it all in their pockets?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U137	Of course I have hope! In fact, I have a very strong belief that the Riigikogu is a higher-ranking body than the government, and if we have made our decision here, it must be seen as a guideline and, according to it, some changes should be made. I would add that, in fact, it is not conceivable to bring here a parallel with previous investments in water and sewerage infrastructure, so that such great work can only be done for the tariff fee received. It was unthinkable before, and it's still unthinkable. So even in the case of the problems to be solved by this bill, it is not an option to use only tariff charges.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U138	Thank you. Please, Kalle Jents, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question coincides a little with the question of the questioner. I would like to ask you this: could you take a little down from the fear that, if we enforce this bill now as a law, in any case, the prices of water and sewerage will rise? How real do you think these issues can be resolved with European Union money? And do you think it is possible that, between the first reading and the second reading, the deadlines will be reviewed if there is any doubt that the money for this period will not provide a positive solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U140	For me, however, what gives the greatest assurance is that both the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of the Interior have expressed their clear support in the process of government coordination and that, as a result of negotiations, agreement will be reached with the Ministry of Finance as well. This will happen during the proceedings in the Riigikogu or after the proceedings have ended here and the law has been passed for me it is just a matter of time. This agreement will certainly be reached and there will also be measures to support investments by water and sewerage companies to bring sediment management to modern levels.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U141	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U142	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! We just left the local election phase. In Viljandi, all the political forces who took part in the elections considered the city's biggest problem to be that sometimes the city's air is not clean. I am absolutely certain that the Fertilisers and all Estonians have the right to clean air. This draft is also my initiative and, at this stage of the debate, I was very surprised that I was called a tanker because of it. It's a good thing not to be a dog. Colleagues, if there is a specific draft, it can be criticised and taken with the performers. Thank you all for your input. As the initiator of the draft act, I am open to all the good amendments that will enable this problem to be resolved. Tõnis, what about you? Are you open to suggestions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U143	Thank you, my good colleague and co-opter, for this remark and for drawing attention. Indeed, sometimes it gets the feeling that those who sit in this hall are not the people who work outside this house, and especially those who live outside this city, at all. But it really is, probably for most of you. I have already said that the Association of Municipalities, the Association of Cities, the Association of Water Enterprises and the Ministry of the Environment have already put forward a number of proposals, and there are probably many more. We certainly want to consider them very seriously in the next procedure in order to make the draft as good and as understandable as possible to those who have built their hopes on it as well as those who have to fulfil it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U144	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U145	Thank you. Honourable waitress! That's the kind of thing I want to ask. A very good example has been thrown into the air in this hall, the example of Viljandi. Peep Aru said that all the parties who took part in the elections have promised to fight against the stench disturbing the population. All municipalities who are familiar with this problem have apparently tried to face it. I want to ask you about investments. Are there any obstacles now that prevent local governments from solving this problem? If you look at the state budget and the state's financial position, in the near future, the state will not allow local governments to borrow in order to put the balance of the state budget at risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U146	Thank you for your question. I guess we'll finally get to what I already stressed when I answered Imre Sooäär's question. We cannot only reduce this problem to Viljandi's concerns. In this Chamber, at least three delegates have directly pointed this out as Viljandi's question, but it does not only concern Viljandi. And it's not just Pärnu or Rakvere or Kohtla-Järve problem, it's wider. Disturbances due to shortcomings in the management of sludge are a more general problem which requires a more comprehensive analysis and resolution. We cannot put it on the hands of a particular government to do it. It is also the wish of water companies, and even the request, that the state take a more direct, robust role in solving this problem. This has also been highlighted in a study by the Estonian Environmental Research Centre. That is why the Ministry of the Environment wants to order a socio-economic study to find out about the aspects that are currently missing from the overall picture. So you shouldn't want to solve individual issues, let's still look at this whole thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U147	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U148	Thank you. Honourable waitress! As I understand from your answer, even now there are no obstacles for local authorities to solve these problems. It is possible to do something if there is good will. But my question is this: given that, in order to comply with this law, if the draft is adopted here, it will take a very large amount of money in the future, have you also consulted with the Ministry of Finance? I wonder what the Secretary of Finance Jürgen Ligi says about this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U149	In view of the tariffs, the Ministry of Finance has done the calculations I referred to in reply to the very first questions. That's where they came from. But what do I want to say to the argument that local authorities still have no obstacles to solving this problem? Years ago, I was the mayor of Paide, and we had red, rusty water, couldn't wash the white shirt, because it went pink after washing. Theoretically, I could look in the mirror and ask, "Mayor, what kind of obstacle was it that you didn't fix it, didn't build a new water shaft, didn't build any new pipelines?" There was no obstacle other than the lack of money! I think that if Paide City had to do this job only for the money paid by its residents, it would still be rusty there, and the sewage would mostly go into the Pärnu River or poorly cleaned, and some would probably simply be underground, because there would be no central sewerage. These questions and answers have been examined over the years by local government leaders; they are no longer new questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U150	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U151	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In this long round of questions and answers, I have become somewhat disturbed by the demagogic argument that one side of the hall is not interested in the concern of 60000 people. It should not be used, as the objection is that the other side of the hall has not been concerned with the concern of tens of thousands of children who do not have enough money for school meals, the concern of tens of thousands of people living in poverty, such as the fact that child support is EUR 19. All these drafts are here, all of you have voted against. So let's not say nobody cares about anybody's problem. But now the question: do I get it right that, under this slogan to fight the resounding smell, you still want to push it through unobtrusively? I think that's the main objective, I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U152	Good colleague! This concept of the bill is pretty much halfway through. I certainly congratulate you on the fact that understanding the problem of these 60,000 people has come to you, and you also made it clear that it is important for you too. I consider this a great achievement, even this very round of questions and answers today. It's not gonna be long from here to realize that these 60,000 people aren't just waiting to talk. They expect action, real investment, a better situation, so that the effects of waste water treatment plants no longer reach them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U153	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. I would like to ask Mr Erki Noole, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment discussed the draft law amending the Water Act and the Waste Act on 4 November this year. Representatives of many interest groups were invited to participate, including Vahur Tarkmees, Managing Director of the Estonian Water Association and Aleksandr Timofeyev, Member of the Management Board of Tallinna Vee. In addition, attorney-at-law Allar Jõks, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment, Harry Liiv and, of course, members of the Environment Committee were present. As in this Chamber today, there was a very thorough debate in the Committee on the Environment, with various interest groups explaining their views. Tõnis Kõiv gave a similar overview as today. However, there are some clarifications to this bill. For the first time, members of the Riigikogu submitted this draft in the spring of the Committee on the Environment. It didn't make it to the hall, but it was fixed and adjusted a little bit. When the bill had become 483, we were also expecting the opinion of the Government of the Republic. The government announced that it would not give its opinion on the draft law on the amendment of the Water Act and the Waste Act initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Aru, Kabritsa, Kõiv and Pakosta. In short, from the explanations of the Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment to various questions. It was already briefly mentioned in this hall that the Ministry of the Environment has prepared the necessary research and also made an application to the Environmental Investment Centre. The Environmental Investment Centre is currently expected to approve the application in this round, with work expected to be completed in 2014 and 2015. The aim is to assess the need for regional treatment of sewage sludge, to select reasonable technologies and to move towards avoiding future problems with ambient air. Valeri Korb, member of the Committee on the Environment, wanted to know why the Government of the Republic gave up its opinion. Tõnis Kõiv tried to answer that question. One reason is for the next allocation of EU funding when different directions are planned. One way could be to improve ambient air quality. The Association of Estonian Rural Governments, the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Water Enterprises do not support this bill in this form. It is underlined that the law would create a heavy additional burden for water companies. Tõnis Kõiv has already highlighted most of the bottlenecks. There was also a great deal of talk in the Commission about the need for stakeholders and research. Personally, I think that these questions are very well-founded and we should be careful about reducing this. This does not mean, however, that we do not have to deal with the smell problem. And it won't stop us from dealing with the smell problem if we don't push the boundaries. This does not come directly from this bill, but I would like to emphasise that the state should certainly have a sense of responsibility for all kinds of environmental disruptions. People who, in good faith, have bought real estate in a certain area or are planning to build a house must be able to be convinced that there are some administrative acts in force in the country that ensure that their health is not damaged. This is certainly an issue that needs to be dealt with further and to be dealt with in a very responsible manner. I am now jumping from the Committee on the Environment to another subject, but there has been a great deal of talk here about the Viljandi problem. Here we could actually knock on the conscience of all politicians. The essence of Viljandi's problem is, in fact, that when Viljandi began to build a treatment plant, many engineers, architects and also designers suggested that it not be built there. But they were built, and the result is what we've been talking about today. Finally, I would like to say that the Committee on the Environment will certainly deal with this draft in an extremely responsible manner in the future. Now the decisions taken by the Committee on the Environment: to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft 483 be placed on the agenda of the plenary sitting by 19 November 2013; this was a consensus decision; to propose to the House that the first reading of the draft be closed by 5; against 4, impartial 0; to propose to the Bureau that the deadline for submitting amendments be set in s. 3 December at 5.15 p.m. This decision was also consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U155	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Erki Arrow! Let's get to the negotiations. Please, Rainer Vakra! I would like to clarify what you are speaking on behalf of the group. Roger, Rainer Vakra is speaking on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U156	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. First of all, I have to say that this demagogic debate made it smiling at times, sometimes laughing at times and, at the same time, weeping at the end of the day. Good bill waitresses, of course we all realize the smell is bad, the smell makes the nose tickle. Nevertheless, we are constantly hearing in this Chamber that the issue of one municipality should not be resolved here by Toompea. Normally, we still have an attempt to solve Tallinn's issues here, and it will always be a big fight. Today it has happened that Tõnis Kõiv, based on his own report, appeals to the 60000 inhabitants as some scientific result, which it certainly is not, and tries to contrast these 60000 people with, for example, Tallinn or some other local government, which is very wrong. I repeat: of all the stinking problems, only 1.8% of the waste water treatment plant is involved and I cannot understand why millions of euros are being spent to solve this problem, be it European Union or Estonian taxpayers' money. In the end, someone still has to pay for it. Is this really the most important issue in Estonia right now that we have to resolve in this big hall? On the other hand, I did not fully understand why Viljandi could not eliminate this problem. As we know, one law does not mean funding, nor does it mean European Union funding. With the decision of the Government of the Republic, it is possible to make it a priority, to negotiate with Brussels. This does not require a separate law. Here it was noted several times that this work was included in the coalition agreement of the parties in Viljandi. I see no reason to doubt that the IRL and the Social Democrats are going to do this either, although when I Googled about history, I saw that the Reform Party has not done so in 17 years. It really stinks up there so far. The draft is opposed to the Estonian Association of Water Enterprises, the Health Board, the Association of Estonian Cities and the Estonian Association of Rural Governments. But it doesn't matter that nobody, not even the Government of the Republic, supports this bill. And we are seriously discussing here whether this law involves money or not, asking the opposite party as the only argument to make a mockery of whether you really don't smell on the left side of the hall and how you don't understand that smell is a problem. Ultimately, the people of Estonia are paying for this expenditure. We now come specifically to this issue. The aim is to reduce the build-up of sewers, which currently protects the population from possible unpleasant smells. Essentially, the aim is to give the opportunity to move closer to the source of smell through development. The authors of the draft constantly ridiculed our attention to the fact, called it a conspiracy theory, that in Paljassaare, northern Tallinn, there is a nearly 50-hectare sea-side plot owned by one real estate company, for which a detailed plan has been launched in 2010. It is planned to establish a residential and commercial area with an estimated cost of hundreds of millions of euros. The management body of North Tallinn has prepared the sketches of this detailed plan on condition that the work and leisure facilities are outside the sanitary protection zone of the waste water treatment plant. And look at the wonder, we come here to the Riigikogu to help, reduce this area, and these objects will remain outside the sanitary protection zone of the wastewater treatment plant. As for the euro, Tõnis Kõiv told a heartbreaking story about the town of Paide. It's always where I can talk about Nõmme district. There were no sewers in Nõmme for 60% of people. We did this without having to discuss at length in the Riigikogu whether the 40,000 inhabitants of Nõmme are important to the Reform Party or not. I think it is. As a result, it is no wonder that the Reform Party will receive even fewer votes in Tallinn in the next elections, because in the course of my homework I will say in advance that Tallinn Vesi will under no circumstances receive euro grants with any formula. If, according to the law, the treatment of waste water must be carried out in a 'closed container or building or in any other way that prevents environmental degradation from spreading across the borders', any thinking person will understand that the smell is not already caught with a garden, wall or beautiful flower bed. In fact, therefore, water undertakings are obliged to reduce the spread of the smell and to cover waste water treatment plants with massive domes. Such large-scale construction work also represents a high cost which will inevitably be borne by the consumer. I will also bring in specific calculations of Tallinn Water. According to the preliminary estimate, the buildings around the cleaning equipment should be built in Tallinn More by about 15 hectares by 2018. That equals 25 full-scale football fields. The estimated volume of investments is 100 million euros and, given the future handling cost, which is 15 million euros per year, the price of water in Tallinn will rise by 40-50%. And here it is not even when we are talking about European Union money, and it is not the opposite of Tallinn versus Viljandi. Smell problems need to be solved locally, not to create such an all-Estonian vibe and maliciously point out that nobody cares about this topic. To sum up, I would like to remind you that in the spring, an analogous draft was already presented, and two of the initiators withdrew it. The reason why the draft was withdrawn from the Commission was due to the lack of economic calculations and an analysis of the impact on the environment. If we look at this bill, we will see that there is still no analysis. The fact that the draft states an approximate cost of at least EUR 25 million indicates that the work has not actually been carried out and that the calculations are incomplete. Almost no one wins by adopting the bill as a law, but there are a lot of losers. It is unprecedented that, despite the request of the Committee on the Environment, the Government of the Republic failed to state its position. In fact, such raw and consumer wallet-dangerous drafts should be rejected immediately from the procedure. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I propose that 483 be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U157	Thank you very much. Next, please speak to Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U158	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike Rainer Vakra, I have not been made to laugh at all during the debate on this bill, and I will not cry even if, somehow, the bill falls out of the procedure. I understand the people who are lobbying here as representatives of Tallinn Water. If only the problems of Tallinn are important to you, make amendments after the first reading. Personally, I do not know that Tallinna Vesi is probably the only one who can solve these problems on his own. Look, I think yesterday was the day of the opening of the new section of Tallinn's Tartu highway. A lot of you drive past it. Have you noticed the proud noise barriers there? They're not just on the new section, they're in other places. Such noise barriers cost tens and hundreds of thousands of euros, a total of millions. However, the number of beneficiaries is extremely small, there may be one or two behind the house. Perhaps that is the answer, good colleague Lembit, to your problem-enhancing that the number of beneficiaries may not be large enough. I mean people who want clean air. Inara, that's what I'd say to you. Really, what has prevented you from dealing with it so far? Rainer Vakra also asked why the reform party government in Viljandi had not already fixed it. Yes, in smaller municipalities, these amounts are too much. We've been doing this in Viljandi for years. There have been different technological options on the table, but all of them are very expensive and one average Estonian government simply cannot solve this problem financially. And there are no 60,000 people in Viljandi City, there are 19,000 residents. So it's not just Viljandi's problem. But true, the city of Viljandi has probably been dealing with this problem for the longest time, looking for solutions and payment options. Yes, the state, the current government and the Minister of Finance certainly do not like the draft. The idea of this draft is indeed to get the country's shoulders and support down. Perhaps the deadlines really need to be extended, we are discussing this, but it is undoubtedly necessary for the state to come to the aid. We are certainly looking at the European Union's money, because it is not possible to solve these problems in another way. I call on all of you to support this bill on the side of the hall, which always confirms that it is alive to the concerns of the local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U159	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for a chair as representative of the Viktor Vassilyev Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U160	Thank you, Madam President. I'm asking for eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U161	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U162	Ladies and gentlemen, Everything starts with the smell, and in fact the smell is the reason why the Government of the Republic does not support this bill. Because there is no limit value for smell in any of the Euro Directives or in any Estonian legislation. Of course that doesn't mean the smell is good. But it's not the smell, it's the residual nitrogen that's released from the gas treatment. There are limit values for residual nitrogen, there are limit values for substances in water leaving the plant, there are appropriate sanctions. These standards must be observed, the levels of waste nitrogen and other things that are being done in Tallinn must be monitored at all times. And if we go beyond normal, we'll have to impose sanctions. If the breach is continuous, there's something wrong with the cleaning equipment. So you have to invest in it, do something different. As far as Tallinn is concerned, it is possible to transport soil to these fields, to plant roses there, to rebuild the walls, why not. All this is very good, and no one would mind. But that's exactly what we're talking about, and I'm afraid that's where the dog is buried and it stinks. Look, what's being proposed is some kind of cosmic technology. Methane should be handled in a hermetically sealed container, but it's explosive. All kinds of risks must be taken into account. When methane's in a closed room, there's a random spark like a small atomic bomb. If it explodes outside in the air, nothing will happen, a little punk, and that's it. If we use cosmic technology, I don't know if any of these solutions have ever been tried in practice, and we're trying to close up the facility, then in trying to clean the air like this, we have to take into account that the release of methane as a result of the natural process is an unpredictable process. You never know when a critical mass will be eliminated. So, if we're gonna build this thing up, there's gonna have to be exhaust valves in case of an emergency. So you want it or you don't, but with louder or quieter sounds, sometimes you have to put the gas in the fresh air as it's meant to be in nature. We can very firmly close the tanks or the buildings where the handling takes place, still have to have emergency discharges because you never know what kind of emergency situation might occur. The power's going down, the computer's going down, Bill Gates is pulling restrictions on Microsoft after anything, and we need an emergency exit from which to release the stinky and unclean stuff. Such an accident may happen, but it cannot happen where people live. Then why are we reducing the sanitary reserve? We can take all kinds of measures, but people must not be allowed where roses are planted on manure. It's an ex-waste management area. So when a person makes a few moves with a shovel at these rose bushes, he gets to a place where there's a goddamn zoo starting with Escherichia coli and ending up with hepatitis A viruses that don't run with dust. The rainwater washes them out of every shovel hole. It's dangerous to live there. That's the point of the sanitary reserve. Throughout the world, such sanitary areas are the same, responding to the number of inhabitants, the amount of water to be handled. This is how it has been established and has always been in Tallinn. The reason for the bill is quite different. What's more, it's not hard to guess. Tõnis Kõiv, the initiator of the bill, visited the entire delegation in England to find out what was going on with the sanitary areas. Maybe he'll tell us what was going on someday. Tallinn Water organized this trip. A small town was shown in the middle of England, where there are several lakes where drinking water is extracted. The lakes have depths of about 16 metres.• Tallinn Ülemiste is only 3 metres deep, and the water temperature is 14 degrees. Nobody goes swimming there except Loch Ness' monster. Yet, the lakes are 300 metres away around the wire, and not easy, but barbed wire. That's why Tõnis Kõiv doesn't want to talk about what he saw there. There is only one wireless lake that was once owned by a local lord, and the lord gave it to the municipality on the condition that the path he once walked must be freely used by the local inhabitants. The trail is 300 metres from the lake and far above the cliffs, the lake is low. That's the way things are in England. But right now we're working on a bill that wants to reduce the sanitary reserve again, this time in the area of interest of other real estate developers. It is now a detailed plan of 16 properties and a neighbouring area in the Paljassaare Põljasaare area, launched in 2010. The initiator is Margus Linnamäe OÜ Ecobay. They asked if Mr Kõiv had met and talked to Margus Linnamägi. As an honest person, he said he wasn't. Of course not. This detailed plan is done by another person. I'm not going to name his name because it's not the Riigikogu's place to do this stinking thing, but in any case, the detailed plan is carried out by AS K-Projekt. In 2010, it was tried to reconcile it with health protection, it did not work, it was pushed to Tallinn Vee in 2011 and it did not work. And now they're trying to do it in the Riigikogu. Are we a banana republic? We are the Republic of Estonia, a member of the European Union, and this is the Riigikogu, the Estonian Parliament. The Centre Party Group proposes to reject the draft law amending the Water Act and the Waste Act at first reading 483. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U163	Thank you. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. The Bureau has received two proposals. The Social Democratic Party Group proposes to reject the draft 483 at first reading. And as you have now heard, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party also proposes to reject the draft law amending the Water Act and the Waste Act 483 at first reading. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U164	Three minutes of intermission before the vote, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U165	Three minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-19_U166	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal by the Social Democratic Party Group and the Centre Party Group to reject 483 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 41 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 483. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting 483 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 1:01 p.m.
