ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and other members of the government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 40 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, 61 missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Regional Minister Siim Valmar Kiisler and Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U2	Let's start by answering questions. Since today we have six questions registered, I can traditionally allow two on-the-spot questions. So, quick fingers, please! First of all, the question by Mr Tobal to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U3	Good Prime Minister! Today it is clear that no new Director General was found for the Police and Border Guard Board in the open competition. The committee that decided on the Director-General found that the three final rounds of the worthy candidate, namely Tarmo Miliitsa, Erkki Koorti and Tõnu Wolf, were not among them, despite the fact that all three were people who worked for 20 years in Estonian internal security. In the opinion of a large number of system employees, this whole public competition is one big track around it, and so it seems to us here too. The Ministry of the Interior or the Minister of the Interior has turned this search into a comedian. What is your position as Head of Government on this matter? The Director-General is still being sought for one of the largest public sector organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U4	My position coincides with that of the law. The Act unambiguously states that the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board is appointed by the Government of the Republic on a proposal from the Minister of the Interior, listening to the position of the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee. The Minister of the Interior proposes that his opinion be made public by the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee, but the final decision is made by the Government of the Republic. Therefore, all the views of the panel are purely consultative. The committees may be the expert opinion, but the decision will still be made by the Government of the Republic. I also don't think it's right for a competition to be organised to find a suitable candidate for each post. The legislator has, as we know, provided for exceptions which concern not only the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, but also the Commander of the Defence Forces, the Director-General of the Defence Police Department and some other posts for which the organisation of the competition is not necessarily necessary. I'd say my personal preference. I really do not think that it is necessary to organise a public competition in order to find people in all extremely important public offices. And certainly, competitions should not be organised in such a way that some candidates feel that they are not fit for this job anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U5	Please, Mr Toobal, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U6	Good Prime Minister! I agree with you in principle that it is not necessary to launch a public competition to fill all public offices, but it is still one of the largest organisations operating in the public sector: the head is being sought by the Police and Border Guard Board. All such processes must not only be but also look honest and transparent. What is your position, which is a more transparent way of finding a leader in a single institution: a target search or a public competition?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U7	I repeat once again that the Government of the Republic appoints the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board and the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee has its say. The Minister of the Interior is proposing. It's his job. How he gets to his proposal is up to him. Whether he is using the help of one, another, or third experts is a matter for him to decide. The Riigikogu commission, however, must definitely give its opinion and the Government of the Republic will finally make a decision. I say to the three candidates who took part in the public competition that I value them very much and I am convinced that they all have the potential to make progress on the way forward. Of these three, I prefer one very clearly. I see in at least one person very much the potential to work as Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board. At present, however, neither the Director-General is identified in a targeted search nor in a public competition, but a candidate for the Director-General is sought, who must be approved by the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee and may be appointed and not appointed by the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U8	Please, Mr Toobal, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U9	Good Prime Minister! I am not challenging the role of the Government of the Republic in appointing a new director. I'm talking about looking for a new principal. The Ministry of the Interior has announced that the evaluation committee will continue its targeted search for a new Director General. For many of us, it seems that the Minister of the Interior has taken the position that this is like an arbitrary business that could be run freely by Indrek Rauds and Nikolai Stelmachs. Are you aware of who the Minister of the Interior is favored by the new Director General and why Ken-Mart Vaher wishes to politicise this position? The Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, Raivo Küüt, has also drawn attention to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U10	I do not want to agree with your statement that the Minister of the Interior wishes to politicise the position of Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board. Once again, the Government of the Republic has the power to decide. I believe that the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Riigikogu is not manipulative in any way, but shapes its position on the basis of its best recognition. Therefore, we may not be able to develop further speculations on attempts to politicise.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U11	Two questions registered on the spot, please. Let's start with my colleague Lembit from Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U12	Good Prime Minister! You explained very nicely how you have to choose the director-in-chief of the police department according to the law. So far, it's been done by law, but it doesn't look good or pretty. Do you think that the Prime Minister should not personally intervene in the resolution of this matter in a situation where it has been dragged over and demonstrated unprofessionalism?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U13	However, I prefer to remain within the limits of the competences that the legislator has given me. The nomination is the right and also the duty of the Minister of the Interior. The Prime Minister, as a member of the government, will decide with other members of the government who will be appointed Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board. I hope that there will be no such times in Estonia, where one person alone will make such weighty decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U14	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Lenk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U15	Good Prime Minister! I think the time that you said it would hopefully never come has already arrived. You also said that let us not believe in speculation. So far, however, many speculations have come true, such as the appointment of the head of the sickness fund and many other cases. If you look at our media, I don't think the Prime Minister can say that the game we're about to play has been very beautiful. I find the reputation of this game to be badly smeared, and the next man to be appointed will find it very difficult to run this profession.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U16	Don't give me any arguments I haven't said. I'm well known to be in court with one of the media publications on this surface. I didn't say it looked pretty and clean. I'd rather say otherwise. I wouldn't have run a competition like that in the first place. I wouldn't have organised a competition that would cast a shadow on three very good and very capable people. Once again, I want to express my sympathy for those three people, none of whom were elected. I think they're all three very capable people, and I think they can move forward on the career path. Right now, they're working as number two, but I'm sure they all have the powers to work as top executive, number one. I have seen one of these three people operating very effectively in a crisis situation. I value him very much, and if I had had to choose one of those three as a member of the government, I would certainly have made a choice. But I believe that the people I didn't choose shouldn't have felt cast out in any way. I commend and appreciate all three.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U18	Let's go to the next question. Please, Mr Küttt, a question for Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U19	Madam President, thank you very much. Minister of Social Affairs! According to good practice, the first hundred days of the new job are 'free of criticism'. However, if the party gave you a new job, you also received an briefing, and since your salary is not an apprentice but a master's one, you probably have to answer the questions after 70 days of service. My questions relate to the introduction of limit prices based on the functionality group of diapers in January of this year. MTÜ Inkotouba has sent a letter to the Ministry expressing concerns about the people who have to buy these products. Perhaps you could explain a little why such a regulation was introduced and what people will lose or win in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U20	I have not actually asked for a hundred days without criticism, and I have not been given them either. So ask yourself, no matter what matters are of interest in the social field. As regards inco-products and their availability to people with disabilities, we have increased the amounts in the state budget to compensate for the price of these products year after year. The need for these products is, unfortunately, great and will remain so. From 1 January of this year, price caps were set for these products. This has two aims: on the one hand, to keep the price of these products under control and, on the other hand, to ensure that the people who need them can indeed buy them. I am aware of the specific address you referred to. It arrived at the Ministry, if I'm not mistaken in a day, the day before yesterday. We will certainly first analyse the specific details of this appeal and then see if it needs to be clarified in certain details. But the general principle is that we want to base the price caps on not the cheapest product or, as in the case of medicines, the cheapest product, but we want to base the most common product so far. On this basis, these marginal prices can be set. I believe that this system, plus, is that it is the products most used by people that are best compensated.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U21	Please, Mr Küttt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U22	In the Ministry's press release of 4 January, you also said that this is a step to limit the rise in prices. However, in those few days, I studied the prices of our MTÜ Inkotoa in 2011 and 2012. These prices have not been on the rise; they have always been the same. A situation has now arisen where the most vulnerable target group, or disabled children, has been hit hardest. Of course, the situation of others has become worse, but the parents of disabled children are now in a situation where the traditional diapers that they have found to be most suitable during the rehearsal are difficult to access. They are forced to use this so-called "average product'. However, they often pass through the urine, the beds are wet, and some of the children's average products simply do not match anatomically. Are you aware that ownership has increased four times, both for cheaper and more expensive products?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U23	Once again, in order to comment on a very concrete example, a broader background needs to be opened up a little. The broader background is that we have still had queues for disabled children to receive the service. These queues were resolved last year in a very important part, and this year we will be able to ensure that everyone who needs a service, especially children, actually gets it. When it comes to the product that we are talking about, it is not about what you said? The average product is only the most common product. We are, of course, analyzing the details of the address, but we have assumed that the most common product is what people have thought best so far. There are both cheaper and more expensive alternatives to the specific product on which the complaint came. In order to say whether its quality is in line with people's requirements, it needs to be analysed in more detail. I'm sure you'll understand, too, that the day-to-day approach has not yet been able to complete an in-depth analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U24	Please, Mr Küttt, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U25	Every child is unique. The most purchased product may not be suitable for those who, due to special needs, need a more expensive product. I've received the following information from six parents. The share was 9 euros per month, which has risen to 36 euros. The cheapest product cost 4.80. The price has risen to 19.20. So the slope has been quadruple. And about as much, not even four times, the state's participation in comparison to 2012 and 2013. The need to analyse the situation is undoubtedly correct. When do you think you will be ready to inform the Riigikogu or at least the Social Committee about the results of this analysis? Children need care every day and we talk about 60 diapers per month, which are offered at a discount price. It's two diapers a day. They therefore need to be bought at an additional price anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U26	More than 57,000 people in Estonia need help for disabled people, but I agree that if there are problems, even in six cases, they must be dealt with. I would be very grateful if you would give the data of these six people, or at least the content of the problems, to the Ministry so that we can discuss these problems one by one and analyse whether the error is in a particular choice or whether there is a question in the system. But I still want to clear up the wrong view of what may have come from the surface of these six examples. The availability of these services in Estonia has improved considerably. In this year's budget, we have over EUR 400000 more than we had in last year's basic budget. In advance, it can be said that the Ministry of Social Affairs is also planning to submit an additional application this year in negotiations with the Ministry of Finance. Our interest is very clearly focused on the fact that there are no queues in this area so that everyone who needs a service can have it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U27	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U28	The next question is Tarmo Tammelt to Minister for Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U29	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Regional Affairs! A few days ago, the National Audit Office published an audit evaluating the organisation of child welfare in rural municipalities and cities. This audit revealed a lot of unpleasantness. For example, six out of 15 county governments do not have a child welfare specialist at work. How, though, can rural governments exercise control and supervision over local governments if these positions are not filled? And why are these posts vacant?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U30	I don't know what to say about specific positions. I don't follow every day which positions and how the county elders fill. We have a total of about 600 employees in rural governments, and there are certainly some places better equipped and some of them have more problems. In general, however, most of these places have been filled.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U31	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U32	Minister, thank you very much. It is known that only 38% of all municipalities have the child welfare specialist's seat filled. What's wrong? It is a very necessary person who should supervise children growing up in troubled families, etc. Why are these places not filled in in the municipalities? Is this not a local government under-financing?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U33	This is about local government choices. We have, for example, six officials in small municipalities and only four in small municipalities. It is clear that they make their choices and that the child welfare specialist generally does not fit into this list. It includes a parish elder, a parish secretary or a parish lawyer and maybe a person dealing with rural matters. It is a problem for small governments that, unfortunately, they do not have a large workforce, not all experts. That is why I consider it necessary for our municipalities to unite and be larger.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U34	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U35	Minister, thank you very much. County elders' tasks, allegedly 600, include control over the activities of local authorities. Control of the municipalities that are planning to join is particularly important. A very sad example is Põlvamaa. The municipality of Põlva, which is the connecting municipality, had no mention of the budget on the website until yesterday. Yesterday, it's up on the budget website because I turned to the Data Protection Inspectorate myself. Previously on several occasions I had approached a rural elder, the mayor did not react. In the municipalities where the IRL intends to carry out administrative reform, is supervision treated differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U36	If borrowing is in line with the law, it is not a sin. I mean, local governments take out loans all the time. I don't know where you read that the merging municipalities should be subject to further supervision. In supervision, everyone must still be treated equally. Particular attention needs to be paid when credit limits are breached, the permissible debt burden is exceeded, but in other cases it is a normal practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U37	Now, the questions registered on the spot. Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U38	Minister, thank you very much. In your reply, you touched on the roles of the state, or rural governments, and local governments. I have a question for you as Minister of Regional Affairs and also for the head of the Tallinn region of IRL. The week before last, I drove a car from Nõmme downtown, and 68 times there was a reason to be angry about street holes. You're Nõmme's man and you know what I'm talking about. Of course, anger does not change the situation. Currently, 95% of the fuel excise money from the state budget is allocated to clean up public roads and only 5% of the municipal streets. I believe that the renovation of municipal roads should be made more publicly. Minister, do you not think that, if necessary, you should extend a helping hand to Harjumaa and even to the city of Tallinn, the capital of our country, when we see and feel together physically that they cannot do their job?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U39	As regards the state of the road on the Pärnu highway you spoke about, as well as roads in other municipalities, I have addressed the Director General of the Road Administration because, according to the Road Act, road maintenance matters are supervised by the Director General of the Road Administration. I have asked him how he has monitored, what results are and what kind of supervision are planned in the future. I'm excited to hear from him. As far as the hand of help is concerned, when we look at the financial opportunities of the municipalities, the city of Tallinn generally has very good ones. The question is again the choices: which areas are the priority and why, within the limits of their independence, the municipality wants to spend money. And when the municipality makes stupid choices, wants to spend money on newspapers, television and everything like that, then inevitably there will be fewer money in other areas. There is nothing to be done, but these choices are up to the municipality itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U40	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U41	My question concerns the country elders. Ten years ago, it was said that the mayor could be an apolitical person. Your party partner, Marko Pomerants, also stated years ago that this legally apolitical place has begun to adopt a political taste. We don't talk like that anymore. On the contrary, it is as if the mayor is a politician. Eight rural elders belong to the Reform Party, seven to the IRL, they are distributed across Estonia. And what do we see on the ground? Political work is being done in the position of a county elder, it is a stage for politics, there is endless advertising for themselves, elections are being carried out, etc. Do you think it's right that the county elders do their party for public money and that they still have huge building slobs in their hands when they had more duties?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U42	I'll start at the back. It is certainly not in the hands of the farmers, but above all at the disposal of 600 workers. They carry out a wide range of tasks, ranging from handling visas in south-east Estonia to organising the compensation of aids for disabled people, which was discussed in the previous question. This compensation is also dealt with by rural governments. Spatial planning, public transport subsidies and everything else will be there. But when it comes to rural parents, there is a great deal of hypocrisy in this matter. I have also heard a lot of hypocritical stories in this Chamber that now, like suddenly, politicians have become country leaders. I've been doing statistics. Let's take a certain era, for example, of this century. For these 12 to 13 years, we have had 46 people in total, including four people who, for one reason or another, have not been a party or a candidate for election. Here too, among your colleagues, there are several people who have applied to the Riigikogu as a county governor and are currently working in the Riigikogu. There are also cases to the contrary: four of your colleagues are now county elders. They have given up the work of a member of the Riigikogu in order to take the place of a county governor. It's not a new phenomenon. And we also know the county elders associated with the Central Party or the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U43	Ladies and gentlemen, since only two locally registered issues were allowed, I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U44	Next is Mr Ossinovski's question to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U45	Prime Minister! I have a few simple questions for you at the request of one of the citizens. First, please, would you explain to the public the work of the State Chancellery and the Prime Minister's Office? In view of some of your statements in this Chamber, where you have advised the public to wear a foil cap and use a Jacuzzi, do you think the Bureau has done its job well?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U46	Yes, the Prime Minister's office has done its job well. The main task of the Prime Minister's Office is to participate in policy-making in the various fields, and this work has been done well by the Prime Minister's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U47	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U48	Kairi Uustuln, Head of the Prime Minister's Office, has, as we know, appeared before the public as the speaker of the new member campaign of the Reform Party, discussing different ways of making better known the worldview of the Reform Party. Is this one of the prime minister's office's duties? If so, does the government intend to amend the Statute of the State Chancellery so that its tasks include advising and supporting the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U49	You will probably not be surprised that the Prime Minister is also a political person, belongs to a political party. And if you are a bit familiar with world politics, you know that in most democratic countries, the offices of prime ministers are run by politicians. It is obviously necessary to share the Prime Minister's world view in order to shape policies. As my financial advisor, I wouldn't be imagining a social democrat from the soul if I was a liberal. But the answer to your specific question: The head of the Prime Minister's office is an established personality and no one can take away from him his views, which he also expressed at a party council meeting, which took place on Saturday. I think that the complaints to the political advisors of ministers about their politicality are strange and incomprehensible. Ministers and the Prime Minister's advisers are not classic officials either by law, because they resign with the Minister or the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U50	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U51	Thank you very much. Kairi's newcomer also refers to the process of the Riigikogu in his interviews, talking about people's desire to contribute more during the inter-election period. At the same time, the general depoliticisation of state offices is one of the important topics of the Riigikogu. It is the clear will of the public that public and party offices should be clearly separated and officials should carry out the duties for which they are paid official wages. Legally, there is no problem here, as you said, but do you think it a good tone that there are people in the public, not a political party, but people on the public payroll who are supposed to promote social interests, not party interests? The problem is that the head of the Prime Minister's office also appeared in public as head of the Prime Minister's office, not simply as a party of reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U52	I consider it an inalienable freedom of citizenship that a person has every office in a democratic country , which is also acceptable according to the Constitution, can express his political convictions. On the contrary, I consider the democratic rule of law to be totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U53	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U54	Prime Minister! As we know, about ten days ago, the European Council meeting, which agreed on the European Union's budget for 2014-20, ended. There are government leaders sitting at that table without their office surrounding them. However, I do have a question about the operation of the Prime Minister's office. In your opinion, what role did the Prime Minister's office play in contributing to these successful negotiations? How would you assess your office's work in this light?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U55	Not only do I appreciate the contribution of the staff of the Prime Minister's office to these negotiations, but I very much appreciate the contribution of dozens and hundreds of competent officials loyal to the Estonian state to these negotiations, which have produced a good result for both the European Union and Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U56	And now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U57	Prime Minister! I will pick up where Mr Ossinovski graduated. I am not quite sure that this is legally correct when state money and other resources are used in the day-to-day work of one party. So far, this has been mainly the course of action of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Even the office of the Speaker of Parliament has employed people who have been on the payroll of the party's office so far. Don't go down the slippery road where...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U58	What? What kind of nonsense are you talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U59	...your coalition partner has been. But here's the question. The head of the Prime Minister's office has said that it is planned to gather some 40,000 free members for the next parliamentary elections. If the head of your office serves this purpose, do you intend to pay him a performance salary as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U60	The collection of supporters', members' data is, in my opinion, perfectly normal and acceptable. Of course, this data must be handled in accordance with the law. But this is probably the future of all Estonian political parties, and not just Estonian political parties, but the trend in the world that there will be more and more direct work with their target groups. Obviously, we all sense that the desire to limit the costs of election advertising is large enough in society. This advertising can only be replaced by direct contact with voters. That's what I think is perfectly natural. In North America and Western Europe, door-to-door visits and such policies are much more common than in Estonia. Communication directly with target groups is also much more widespread than in Estonia. I certainly do not agree with your argument that coming to this idea requires intense work for days and weeks. Among other things, my office manager has studied in the United States and seen life there, so coming to this point probably did not require months of effort or state pay. I believe that Mr Ossinovski, a good questioner, has also seen this practice when he is away from Estonia and could probably have proposed it himself instead of Kairi Uustuln.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U61	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U62	The next question is from Marika Tuus-Laul to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U63	Good minister! We are concerned about the increasing participation of people in health care. More and more people have to pay for healthcare themselves. From the earliest point of view, the first days of incapacity for work must be on top of their wallets and the percentage of compensation also decreased, the value added tax on medicines increased, dental benefits disappeared, care treatment had to start paying more than EUR 6 per day, rehabilitation went more expensive, bed-day and visit fees increased recently, and very long queues often make it difficult to accept paid specialist medical care. Is this not all too much for our small wages and pensions and for our high unemployment? This was also pointed out by the WHO a few years ago, stressing that access to medical care is a major problem in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U64	Honourable questioner! In this briefing I am before you for the first time, but I have worked in one hall with you for over five years, and I am never tired of wondering where you take your data and the claims you make in this Chamber to be true. It should be said that never before has Estonia's participation in health care been as low as it is now. The participation in Estonian health care is less than 20%, and it has fallen year after year. Let's see what the holding consists of. The biggest and most important part is medication and quite close, and the second is dental care. Since 2009, the average price per prescription has fallen by 9% and by 22% for humans as a whole. One might ask: how so? This is mostly related to the fact that more active substance-based recipes are written and people have dared to ask more pharmacists for an alternative to their usual medicine. All of this has brought the price of medicines down from more than EUR 8 per prescription on average in 2009 to EUR 6.5 in 2012. However, I see further ways of lowering the prices of medicines and I believe that the average price per prescription could fall from the current 6.5 euros to about 5 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U65	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U66	You asked me where to get my data. I will immediately bring you the data from the Institute for Health Development last December, which says that people's own contribution has increased by one fifth compared to 2010. That's official data! It is pointed out that in addition to dental care and medication, participation in rehabilitation and specialised medical care has increased. The National Audit Office has also pointed out during the audit at the end of last year that in Estonia, people's own participation in buying medicines is one of the largest in Europe. We know it's bigger only in Denmark. I also have this report from the National Audit Office here. I can also tell you that, officially, it doesn't take into account how much people pay for sick days in their pockets, but it gets pretty expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U67	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U68	I'm gonna ask you where you're gonna get that information if official research shows this state of affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U69	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U70	Your ability to manipulate correct facts in such a way that they give a totally opposite picture of the truth is, of course, admirable, but I am not sure whether it is quite correct to do so in Parliament. By the way, today, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Insurance Fund introduced a very thorough study that revealed the estimates of 1,500 people for health care, both its quality and its availability. I am very pleased to say that the majority of people and your opinions on these issues do not coincide at all. People's satisfaction with Estonian health care has increased considerably; people's satisfaction is highest for five years. It is true that in terms of availability, the satisfaction indicators are somewhat lower than in terms of quality. For this quality, of course, we must say a great thank you to the Estonian doctors, nurses and care workers, because it is primarily their favour. In terms of availability, the figures are somewhat lower, but they have also increased in time rather than decreased. So when we talk about statistics and facts, let us try to be correct!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U71	In the case of interviews, we often get exactly the result that we want to ask you accordingly, and then the result is that the patient is satisfied. But I am thinking of people's own contribution to health expenditure. After all, Praxis has brought it out, and you know very well that the costs of public health are not included. All in all, the part that a person has to pay from his own pocket is very large in Estonia. So I still have very precise data here. But I'm asking about the queues right now. Praxis has also highlighted the extremely long waiting times. The question is that we have formally limited waiting times, but in reality they are many times longer. Often a person cannot get in line, he is told that this is not possible now, call back in a few months, then perhaps after the summer vacation. In addition, we have 'double queues': there are also queue queues. What has been done to shorten the queues? They're really tall!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U72	This question is entirely appropriate in this Chamber; it is a really important issue. You have not specified whether you are talking about the queues of a family doctor or a specialist, but in fact, the state has to deal with both areas and will certainly do so. In the case of family doctors, 80% of the Estonian population are satisfied with the time when they will be able to visit the family doctor, but nevertheless we have room to move forward in this respect as well. At the beginning of this year, the Health Insurance Board decided and this decision was also confirmed by the Government of the Republic that the state will also fund another family nurse with a family doctor. This greatly increases the ability and opportunities of a family doctor to help people on his list. This should be very clear in terms of faster access to the family doctor. As far as the order of special medical care is concerned, we have, in addition to the information already referred to in the highly dignified sample survey, information from the Health Insurance Fund, which is actually based on the whole population. The Health Insurance Fund therefore has detailed information about all the queues. The Health Insurance Fund has already taken decisions this year that will shorten the queues for specialist doctors, and is still planning to make such decisions. However, in the case of specialist doctors, the queues have different reasons and each particular speciality, and the area must also be looked at separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U73	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U74	Minister, thank you very much. Access to medical care is the most important thing for a person at the moment of sudden health problems and perhaps the need to call an ambulance. Then it is very important how quickly the ambulance reaches the patient and how good the help provided is. The Ministry plans to create a new ambulance brigade in Järvamaa Türi, which will make medical care more accessible to a large part of the county's population, and the ambulance will reach them sooner. Nevertheless, we have heard a lot of protests against the proposed change. How do you explain that as a minister? Why is reform opposed? Why do you object to a new ambulance crew coming to Türi?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U75	We want to create additional brigades on site not only in Järvamaa, but all over Estonia next year. That's for two reasons. On the one hand, regardless of the end of Estonia, we want him to know for sure that the ambulance will reach him quickly. The second reason, of course, is that, since the last emergency response competition that was held in 2007, there has been a great deal of change in the location of the population. For example, a new residential area has emerged near Tallinn and an ambulance has to get there quickly. As far as Järvamaa is concerned, there are now two brigades, both located in the center of Paide, near Järvamaa Hospital. In addition to the two brigades, which should continue to remain in Paide, the Health Board's proposal is to fund another brigade with public money at Türi. The question is not just about the Türi municipality, which has become the largest municipality in Järvamaa, but the whole of southern Järvamaa. I've seen the appeals to which signatures are collected in Järvamaa. They collect signatures to keep the ambulance in Järvamaa. On this side, each of us could sign, and I don't know anyone who had a plan to eliminate an ambulance in Järvamaa. On the contrary, the state will create an additional brigade in Järvamaa, which will certainly improve the availability of ambulances there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U76	I would like to ask you the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Viktor Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U77	Good minister! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the National Institute for Health Development, which operates in your area of administration, has announced that people's own participation has increased by one fifth compared to 2010. But as a young and beginner's minister, you may not know everything about what's going on in your administration. Instead, I wanted to congratulate you on the fact that you said a great thing: that the country is going to deal with the appointments of doctors. So far, your predecessor, Hanno Pevkur, has cut iron to the point that the Ministry is not responsible for the health network, the Health Board is not responsible, the Health Insurance Fund is not responsible. In the case of strike, the Hospital Association, or voluntary hospital owner organisation, was found to be the negotiator. Is it now clear who is responsible for health care in the Republic of Estonia? Who is this person or institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U78	A long and shuffling question and finally a punch who's responsible. Of course, everything that is going on in the hands of one minister is ultimately also politically responsible for the Minister's position. In the health care system, we have reached the point that we have received a very large part of the health sector at one table. Representatives of the political groups of the Riigikogu have also been involved in the discussion at this same table, and we have taken several steps together in shaping the future of health care to implement our plans. The Minister in office has also stated very clearly with his signature that he wishes to be responsible for this area. Certainly, Minister Hanno Pevkur was also responsible not only for the health sector, but also for the welfare of the social and labour sectors. I think that Hanno Pevkur has done a very good job in the four years that his minister had for longer than anyone else in this rather complicated profession, and there is no reason to say otherwise now that he is not present. As far as the Health Development Institute's research is concerned, see exactly what the indicators are. I was talking about this and the question of Marika Tuus-Laul, the honourable, was about the size of the participation of patients in Estonian health care. I'll tell you again, it's been shrinking year after year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U79	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U80	We have come to the last question. Please, my colleague Jaan Õunapuu, a question for regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U81	Dear Minister, According to the forecast by the Ministry of Finance, in 2013 local governments will receive almost the same amount of land tax as last year, when this amount was close to 59 million euros. Under a political slogan, the coalition decided to exempt the land under its home country to a certain extent. Many municipalities began looking for a source of loss of tax revenue and found this tax rate to be increased overall. No wonder, for the government stretched out clearly by stating which source the missing amount would be covered. I would also like to remind you that the government has not been able to restore the amount of the equalisation fund paid to the municipalities before the recession. Minister, do you agree with me that coalition politicians should not blame the municipalities but admit that this was an unthinking decision that they wanted to put in place for the capital?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U82	Thank you. I don't know if 'blaming' is the right word, but I certainly don't agree with you. It is precisely because a number of municipalities have still been working here. On the one hand, due to the increase in the share of income tax, compensation was received and accepted calmly, and on the other hand many municipalities announced that we are short of money, we must raise the land tax. The land tax was raised. The revenue was ultimately drawn from two locations. Unfortunately, I have not yet been able to obtain summary data from the Ministry of Finance. If they are on the table, you can see how exactly the income from the land tax has changed in the municipalities this year compared to last year. We will also get a picture of how much more income tax will be collected. But it can already be clearly said that, in the end, the municipalities are in a very large advantage. The land tax has also been increased by those municipalities which already receive a percentage increase in their income tax to compensate for the residual land tax exemption. I'm actually really sorry that the land tax has been raised. The relief from the land tax on the land under home was designed to ease the burden on people so that they would pay less from their homes. Unfortunately, some municipalities have reversed this idea and wondered how to tax this country dearly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U83	Please, Mr Õunapuu, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U84	So much for comment that, in fact, local governments have the legal right to raise land tax. But here's my second question. Thousands of landowners were deeply puzzled at the beginning of this month by seeing a tax report from the Tax and Customs Board, which contained a startling demand for money. 1500 square metres are exempt, but more than this land is in many cases subject to a higher rate of taxation. Nor must we forget the effects of the tax exemption on the real estate market, which, as we know, is rather poor outside large cities. Minister, will the land tax exemption from the land under home help the IRL to fulfil its pledge to its constituents to reduce home expenses? After all, there has been a great deal of confusion, and some people are displeased.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U85	Ladies and gentlemen, As we have less than a minute until the end of Question Time, I would like to thank the Minister and to finish working on this issue. Question Time is over. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for asking questions. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U86	Once again, I am saying that I do not have any final data, but as far as I know, the size of EUR 17 million will save homeowners thanks to this tax exemptions this year. Well, we'll be able to figure out the numbers sometime. This is the money that will be left in our homeowners' pockets because we have enforced the land tax exemption under our home country. Indeed, as you said, the municipality has the right to raise land tax. But I congratulate those municipalities that do not exercise this right in these difficult times, when people already have problems at cost, and I defy those who make the most of this right and try to take the last from the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U87	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the fifth working week session of the 5th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. I'll call my colleague Urmas Klaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U88	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu decided at its meeting on 18 February to submit to the Riigikogu a draft decision " Appointment of a member of the council of the National Library of Estonia." We propose the appointment of Mr Reet Roos as a member of the Council. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U89	Please, colleague Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U90	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, I will submit a draft to the procedure of the Riigikogu entitled 'Law amending the Paldiski Government Organisation Act'. The purpose of the draft is to regulate, on the basis of the Paldiski Municipality Management Act, the issues of assets related to the City of Keila City's Paldiski district, which arose as the City of Paldiski's re-independence. Although the City of Keila City of Paldiski has already been wound up by the announcement of the results of the elections of the City Council of Paldiski on 20 October 1996, issues concerning the assets of the City of Paldiski have not yet been regulated. It needs legal regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U91	Thank you. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U92	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of nine members of the Riigikogu, I present an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. The crime recorded in 2010 and 2011 is also fixed in the respective Yearbooks. If you look at them, corruption crimes have been 61% in one year in the state-run agencies, and 57% in the second year in the whole country, both of which are higher than in 2009. These percentages, which I have mentioned to you, do not include institutions such as KIK, RKAS, etc. These data are grouped in such a way that it is difficult to separate the authorities managed by the State. I'd like to talk to the minister responsible about this. When it comes to corruption, it's pretty dangerous. There is corruption in local governments, although there are much more employees than in state-run establishments, at only 16 to 18%. I would like to know why corruption is never mentioned in this Chamber in the institutions administered by the state, but one or two examples draw fundamental conclusions that local authorities in Estonia are highly corrupted. So, on behalf of nine members of the Riigikogu, I will refer an inquiry to Ken-Marti Vaher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U93	Thank you. Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U94	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the eight delegates from the Central Party Group, I am going to refer an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs. The content of the enquiry concerns the prices of network services. In September last year, the Competition Authority coordinated the change in Elering's network charges, according to which Elering's average network charges increased in s. a from 1 January, 0,15 cents per kilowatt-hour. The new average network charge is 1.28 cents higher than last year, or 13.3% higher. It can be said that ordinary consumers were hit by a very large increase in network charges. Last week, news also came that Eesti Gaas's core network company EG Võrguteenus will raise the price of the network service as much as 66% on 1 May. In this regard, we have four questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs, with which we are trying to explain the reasons behind the rise in network charges.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U95	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and two inquiries. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on their procedure within three working days. And if inquiries comply with this law, I shall immediately forward them to the addressees. Here's the news. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the amendment of the Victim Assistance Act initiated on 18 February and related amendments to other laws, Leading Committee on Legal Affairs; second, the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. A draft of the Riigikogu's decision on the establishment of a special anti-corruption commission submitted on 19 February, the commission of the Constitutional Committee. I have forwarded the inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher and returned the inquiry No 292 to its performers. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U96	Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to today's agenda. The first point is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act 259 amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U97	We will begin the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Safety of Seas and Ports, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Law on Safety of Seas and Ports Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 300. Please vote! 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U98	The next item is the second reading of the draft Act 324 on the Denunciation of the Convention establishing the International Customs Tariffs, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask my colleague Kalev Kallo, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U99	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission discussed the draft law 324 at its meeting on Monday 11 February with a view to sending a second reading. At the meeting, it was noted that no amendments were received from Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments, i.e. by 5 p.m. on 30 January. However, the language editors of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu made minor changes to the text of the draft. Namely, the words "accepted' in the original text were replaced by "accepted' and, at the end of the sentence, the word "law' was replaced by "under law'. These are minor language changes. On this basis, the Commission took its own procedural decisions. We decided to propose that the draft Act on the Denunciation of the Convention establishing the International Customs Tariffs, initiated by the Government of the Republic, be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 20 February, that the second reading be terminated, and that when the second reading is completed, the draft be put to the final vote and adopted as a law. On this side, all nine members of the Commission were present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U100	Thank you very much, Mr Kallas. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. There were no proposals to amend the draft law, so we can go to the final vote. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act 324 on Denunciation of the Convention establishing the Union on International Customs Tariffs initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 68 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one was against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U101	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Land Reform Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and consequently amending other laws. For a presentation, I would like to ask Mr Aare Heinvee, Member of the Committee on Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, After the amendment of the Land Reform Act and the subsequent completion of the first reading of the draft law amending other laws 335 at the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 23 January, the Rural Affairs Committee discussed this draft at its meeting on 12 February and 19 February. On 12 February, Triinu Rennu, Head of the Legal Department of the Land Office, and Maire Salu, Acting Head of the Land Reform Department took part as representatives of the initiator of the draft. I would like to remind you that the aim of the draft is to address the shortcomings identified in the current legislation and to provide for the necessary changes to speed up the implementation of the land reform by 2017. This is a draft which amends, in addition to the Land Reform Act, the law on the implementation of the Law of Property Act, the law on the basis of the property reform of the Republic of Estonia, the law on the ground and the State Property Act. One amendment was tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party by the deadline for amendments. The Association of Estonian Cities also sent its proposals to the Commission. The Association of Estonian Cities submitted its proposals with the Association of Estonian Rural Governments already on 15 January, when the draft was discussed in the Committee on Rural Affairs with representatives of the Association of Estonian Cities, the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, the Ministry of the Environment and the Land Administration. The proposals sent by the Estonian Union of Cities on 6 February repeated or specified the proposals previously sent. The Commission discussed the proposals of the Estonian Cities Association at its meeting on 15 January and 12 February, but supported only one of them, in part. The Commission did not support the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal to reduce the time when the local government is obliged to pay the state 65% of the proceeds from the transfer of land to municipal property, from 10 to five years. The majority of the Commission supported the view that the limitation imposed could extend beyond the period of validity of the mandate of a local government council, and it is not justified to waive the uniform principles laid down in the State Assets Act. As a commission responsible for rural development, five amendments were formulated in cooperation with the initiator, two of which specify the text of the draft text, one inspired by the discussion of the committee's meeting on 15 January and one of the proposals of the Association of Estonian Cities. The last proposal amends the date of entry into force of the Act. We specified the text of § 23 (11) of the Land Reform Act, which is amended by § 1 (12) of the draft law. The text of the draft act was that if the activities of the person entitled to privatise cannot complete the formation of the cadastral unit, the municipality may set a deadline for submitting the cadastral unit file to the municipality or city government, after which the person entitled shall lose the right to privatise the land. Although it is possible to interpret that action also means inaction, the Commission also considered it necessary to include the word "inaction' in the provision, as the completion of the cadastral unit could be hindered both by the activity and by the inaction of the person entitled to privatise the land. We also specified in the text of § 313 (7) which is included in the Land Reform Act by § 1 point 20 that one or more cadastral units may be formed of land suitable for incorporation into immovable property. The number of units to be set up depends in particular on the requirements of land management and whether the land is to be merged with one or more immovable property. In paragraph 15 of § 1 of the draft law, we supplemented the provision amending § 25 (4) of the Land Reform Act in such a way that, after the entry into force of the Act, in addition to the transfer of land on the basis of municipal buildings and structures, the municipality would not be required to transfer money to the State in the event of the transfer of land on the basis of the building and apartment building without supporting the ownership of the municipal property. It is not justified for the local authority to pay 65% of the funds received from the land transfer to the State in the situation where the buildings owned by another person in the transferable land, i.e. joint-use ancillary buildings and apartment property, are located. It is likely that the land under construction will later be disposed of in decision-making order to the owner or user of the building. At the meeting of the Commission on 15 January, the question was raised as to whether the role of an "arbitrator" to an estate manager in a dispute concerning the distribution of land suitable for incorporation into immovable property was justified. This regulation may not serve its purpose, since anyone who wishes to challenge the decision can do so both on the basis of the decision of the municipality and the county government. This would, however, prolong the procedure. In the case of the privatisation of the strip, it was found that it was justified to carry out the normal land reform procedure, where the ex ante operation is carried out by the municipality and the decision to privatise the strip is taken by the county governor. The Commission decided to delete the last sentence of § 313 (5) of the Land Reform Act from § 1 (20) of the draft: 'If the applicants do not agree with the decision of the municipal or rural municipality administration, it will decide to divide or not to divide the land suitable for incorporation into the immovable property and the acquirer or acquirers shall decide. ' It was originally planned that the draft would enter into force on 15 February 2013, but since the draft procedure has been delayed, the date of entry into force of the Act will be amended, which will now be 20 March 2013. A number of editorial, linguistic and regulatory changes have also been made to the draft. As the lead committee, the Committee on Rural Affairs proposes that the second reading of draft 335 be completed, if the second reading is completed today, by sending the draft to the third reading on 27 February 2013 and by adopting it as a law. All the Commission's procedural decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U103	Thank you very much, Aare Heinvee. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We go to the examination of the amendments, there are six. The first and second proposals have been presented and taken fully into account by the Committee on Rural Affairs. The third is presented by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has ignored this. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U104	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U105	I'd love to! Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 3, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 20 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 40 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 4 is presented and taken fully into account by the commission. Proposals Nos 5 and 6 have been submitted by the lead committee and have been fully taken into account. We have examined all the amendments. The second reading of bill 335 is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U106	We begin the second reading of the Estonian Administrative Division Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Act to facilitate the merger of local government units and the Bill amending the Public Transport Act 352. I would like to ask Mr Aivar Koka, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U107	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft Act 352 amending the Administrative Division of the Estonian territory, the Act to facilitate the merger of local government units and the Public Transport Act took place in plenary on 30 January. The deadline for submitting amendments was 7 February at 5 p.m. By this time the Group of the Social Democratic Party presented three proposals, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica jointly submitted five proposals. The Steering Committee, in cooperation with the initiator of the draft and the representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, also formulated three proposals on the amendment to the Public Transport Act. The Commission discussed the amendments to the draft 352 at its meetings on 11 and 14 February. The first time the regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler took part in the debate, Olivia Talle, Legal Adviser to the Regional Development Department of the Ministry of the Interior, Ave Viks, Adviser to the Department of Local Government and Regional Administration, and Ain Tatter, Head of the Roads and Rail Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The amendments tabled by the political groups and the proposal for the entry into force of the law were examined. As regards the provision on the amendment of the Public Transport Act, the ministries did not have a common position and the Commission proposed to the Ministry of the Interior, as the initiator of the draft and to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in whose area the Public Transport Act falls, in cooperation with the Commission's representative and representatives of the political groups, to draw up compromise proposals for the next session. This amendment, as well as the amendment to the Local Government Organisation Act, was discussed at the meeting of the Commission on 14 February, which also included Olivia Tellus and Ain Tatter. All the proposals were discussed in the Commission. The first item was the distinctions between islands and equal treatment of municipalities. At Commission meetings, both before the first reading of the draft and during the discussion of amendments, as well as at first reading in plenary, the question of the justification of the derogation for islands and the compatibility of the derogation with the principle of equal treatment arose. According to the amendment to Paragraph 7 (4) of the Estonian Administrative Division Act (ETHS), which is made by § 1 (1) of the Bill, local government units can join if the resulting municipality consists of administrative territories with a common border. Paragraph 1 (2) of the draft law and Paragraph 7 (41) of the ETHS provide for an exception for the islands, with no requirement for a common border. The Social Democratic Party Group proposed the waiver of the distinction, but the Commission did not take it into account. The reasons for granting an exemption to the islands by the initiator of the draft measure were as follows: Islands are in a special situation compared to the mainland. When several attraction centres have developed on the mainland, there is one on the islands, such as the city of Kärdla in Hiiumaa, the city of Kuressaare in Saaremaa, and the small islands without them at all. The exception would allow the municipalities of Hiiumaa, for example, to join the city of Kärdla and the municipality of Vormsi with the municipalities of Läänemaa. In order to improve the functional integrity and administrative capacity of the municipality, such a merger with the centres of attraction would be justified. As there are more attraction centres on the continent and the merger can take place in different directions, allowing the merger of municipalities that do not have a common border on the continent is not an indispensable step. On the other hand, the islands have a much more limited number of potential merger partners than the mainland, and therefore the opportunities to increase the administrative capacity of the islands are less limited. It would be unreasonable to limit the merger of the municipalities on the islands to a continental municipality with which the island has an essentially unified and operational service area. The objective of the distinction for islands is to promote the merger of local government units and the organisation of the administrative division of the territory, which entails an increase in the administrative capacity of local government units and the capacity to prepare successful project applications, improved availability and quality of public services provided by the local government unit on its territory, and the development of the capacity of local government units to cooperate. Other laws, such as the Small Islands Act and the Public Transport Act, also take account of the diversity of islands. The principle of equal treatment means, among other things, that equal treatment must be treated equally, but those in unequal positions may be treated unequally. The rigid approach that islands should not be subject to any differences compared to the mainland, although the islands are in a special position due to their geographical situation, would lead to a contradiction with the principles of equal treatment. Now an overview of the amendments and amendments made to the draft. On the basis of the joint proposals by the Reform Party and the IRL Group, the first paragraph of the draft has included Amendments Nos 3 to 5, points 4, 5 and 7, according to which, from the start of the accession negotiations, the County Elder must advise the acceding municipalities on the conclusion of an agreement and on the settlement of the disputed issues relating to the modification of borders and the modification of the administrative territorial organisation. Paragraph 8 (4) (3) of the current Act provides for the competence of a county governor in the case of a change of administrative-territorial organisation or boundaries initiated by the Government of the Republic. Since, in cases of change of boundaries and administrative-territorial organisation on the initiative of local councils, the task under the Land Elder's Law is to express its views on the reasons for the proposed changes, in practice, before submitting documents for the change of borders or administrative-territorial organisation to the rural governments, the proposed changes have often been addressed. The amendments now provide a clear legal basis for the activities of the County Elder in the field of advisory services, as set out in paragraphs 5 and 7 of § 1 of the draft law. Paragraph 8 (4) (3) of the Estonian Administrative Division Act uses the word'support' instead of 'advice' to the relevant councils. The term is misleading, since the law does not refer to financial support for councils in addition to the merger grants paid to the merging local authorities, but merely to the role of the rural governor as a body advising the municipalities. Therefore, in this provision, the word'supports' has been replaced by 'advices'. Now, from § 3 of the bill. The Reform Party Group and the IRL Group proposed to supplement section 6 (2) 41 (amendment No 8) of the Act on the facilitation of the merger of local government units and to provide a one-off allowance for the presidents of local government councils, mayors and mayors in the event of a change in administrative arrangements on the initiative of councils, provided that such persons do not continue in the municipality formed as a result of the merger in the same functions. The condition for the payment of the benefit is that these persons have been present for at least one year before the date of announcement of the results of the elections of the new local government council formed in the course of the merger. The allowance shall be paid in six times the average wage or remuneration of the two-month period preceding the date on which the election results were announced for the chairmen of the council and six times the average monthly salary for mayors and mayors. The Commission considered this proposal in substance and, in cooperation with the representative of the initiator, formulated a new amendment. Since the social guarantees of the elected and appointed persons of the council derive from § 541 of the KOKS, all the bases for the payment of compensation by the council presidents, parish elders and mayors must be laid down in the KOKS and only a provision supplementing the list of costs which can be covered by the merger grants granted from the state budget shall be included in its scope. In this context, the draft has been supplemented by a new § 2, which amends § 541 (3) and (4) of the KOKS and adds paragraph 31 to it. The title of the law is also amended by worded as follows: "The law amending the administrative division of Estonian territory and the law amending other laws in connection with it'. As regards the amendment of the regulation on the payment of compensation by the Mayor, the Mayor and the Chairman of the Council in KOKS, an additional source of expenditure is added to § 6 (2), which can be covered by the merger grants granted from the state budget. The maximum amounts for merger support are to be increased by Amendment 6 tabled by the Reform Party Group and the IRL Group, fully taken into account by the Commission. According to this proposal, merger support would increase from EUR 40 to EUR 50 per capita in the merged local authority. The minimum amount of the merger aid shall be increased from EUR 128000 to EUR 150000 and the maximum amount from EUR 256000 to EUR 400000 for each of the merging municipalities. The merging municipality would also receive a grant from the state budget of EUR 40 instead of EUR 50 per capita for the part of the territory to be transferred to the local government unit formed by the merger. The purpose of the increase in the maximum amounts of the merger aid is to motivate municipalities to join, since the existing State support has proved too low for municipalities to cover the costs associated with the merger. The Socialist Group also proposed an increase in accession subsidies, which is Amendment 7. The amounts of grants in this were somewhat different from those offered by the Reform Party and the IRL groups. The Commission partly supported this proposal, as the representative of the proposal also wished to increase the rate of accession support and also covered one amount. § 4 of the Bill concerns the amendment of the Public Transport Act. Paragraph 6 of § 15 of the Public Transport Act, which is added, aims to encourage and encourage the merger of local government units, one of which may be hindered by issues relating to the organisation of public transport. According to the current Public Transport Act, the local authority responsible for managing the regional transport routes is the local authority of the municipality or regional public transport centre. As a result of the merger of local authorities, some existing regional lines may become rural or urban routes within the meaning of the Public Transport Act. The Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications agreed that the municipal or urban routes created in place of the current county line could still be financed by the State in order to facilitate the merger of the municipalities. As regards the organisation of the routes, however, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications was in favour of the principle laid down in the current Public Transport Act that the regional routes are operated by the county government and the municipal and urban authorities. The Ministry of the Interior, as the organiser of the rural and urban routes created in place of the county line as a result of the merger, still saw the county government and did not consider it justified to introduce a new ad hoc subsidy for the local government. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also wanted to clarify the extent to which the municipal or urban line created would be financed. The ministries have reached a compromise on the wording of the provision and it is set out in Amendment 9 of the commission of directors. According to the proposal, if the merger of the municipalities results in the creation of a rural municipality or urban line, the organisation and financing of this route will continue until the expiry of the current public service contract by the competent authority which awarded the contract. A new public service contract may be concluded with the carrier by a competent authority at the request of the municipality, either by the county government or by a regional public transport centre. It will be financed from the state budget for at least four years, up to the current volume of linework and a reasonable rate of support. Therefore, the route may be organised by the county government, the public transport centre and, if the latter so wishes, by the local authority. In the case of public regional routes, these are the routes operated under the public service contract, which are supported by the state budget. When a public regional line becomes a rural municipality or city line, the organisation of these routes, including the procedures related to the conclusion of a public service contract, must be carried out by a new local authority resulting from the merger, subject to the applicable law, and subject to additional tasks and obligations. In order to facilitate the merger of municipalities, these tasks and obligations should be targeted at the State, provided that the capacity of the route is determined by the county government or regional public transport centre, at the request of the municipality, in cooperation with the municipalities, on the basis of a new public service contract. The existing public service contracts concluded by county authorities or regional public transport centres are valid until they expire. Thus, to the end of the contracts in force at the time of the merger, the State organises and supports these public routes through the relevant competent authority, which, in order to support the municipalities, will conclude new contracts for the next four years following the conclusion of the existing contracts, as requested by the municipalities. In order to determine whether a new public service contract is to be awarded, account shall be taken of the capacity of the public regional public transport routes in the municipality, including in particular line kilometres and scheduled hours, and of the reasonable rate of support. The demand for continuing lines must also be taken into account. The reasonable rate of support is defined as the fact that it cannot be expected to receive 100% public support if the municipality, for example, wishes to provide free public transport services. On the other hand, it cannot be assumed that in the four years following the expiry of the contract in force at the time of accession, it would be reasonable to maintain the share of aid in force at the time of accession, while in other regions with comparable characteristics, for example, different rates of aid apply. It is reasonable to maintain the existing rate of support at the time of accession, which may change over time, including if national policies to support public transport change accordingly. The relevant burden of consideration lies with the public operator of the public service contract. The amounts concerned are set out in the budget of the State in the line of support for road transport by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. In the event that no additional funding is provided to support local routes resulting from the merger of municipalities in the state budget, the municipal and urban routes within the merged municipality are financed from the amounts provided to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to support the regional bus routes. All this records are kept by the Road Administration. Paragraph 5 on the entry into force of the Act (amendment No 10) which provides for the entry into force of the Act on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State has been included in the draft. The distinction is necessary in order to allow all the necessary merger procedures to be carried out by municipalities wishing to join for the regular elections of local government councils in 2013 in accordance with the new Act. The draft has also included editorial and linguistic corrections by the language editor. As the lead committee, the Committee on Rural Affairs proposes to close the second reading of the draft 352. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U108	Thank you very much, Mr Aivar Kokk. Now the questions. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U109	Good waitress! I'm asking you about a particular case, is this bill going to help solve it? The leaders of the two municipalities have sat down and have basically expressed a desire to put the bread in one closet in the future, which is the city of Tallinn and the municipality of Ruhnu. But right after the idea came out, your party partner, Minister Kisler, hastened to announce that this law does not allow it. Will the pending draft permit the city of Tallinn and Ruhnu rural municipality to join in if they enter into force as a law? And if not, when does your party plan to initiate such a change as a party that is very favourable to accession? The request has perhaps reached you through the press.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U110	I must say with sadness that the draft under examination does not allow this. However, it is always possible to propose amendments and come to this Chamber with them. Unfortunately, there was no proposal to amend this draft that would have allowed such a accession process to be carried out. Moreover, the councils concerned have not made such a decision, and it is not possible to deal with matters in this Chamber only on the basis of the press.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U111	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U112	Good colleague, good waitress! It has been pointed out in several points that the mayor advises the councils in the resolution of disputes concerning the change of borders. I ask why it is necessary to write it into the law that the mayor advises. Is this a special thing, and can there be any other counselors? And what, then, is the competence of the mayor in this counseling?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U113	Thank you, Tarmo, for a very good question. The role of the county governor is enshrined in the law because the mayor is a representative of the state in every county and can involve specialists who advise on how to avoid the various problems that may hinder the accession process during the process. The councils still have questions on the agenda, and if they do not go further in the autopsy of these issues, they often fail to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U114	Please, Mr Kalev Lillo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U115	Good waitress! I am seriously pleased that the Government Committee has taken strong steps to encourage voluntary accession. Did the Commission mention the impact of this bill on how much it would contribute to voluntary accession?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U116	There was talk about it. Initially, it can be assumed that if this draft is adopted as a law, the merger will take place in at least two regions: one in Viljandi County and the other in Hiiumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U117	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U118	Dear waitress, It was sad to hear that Ruhnu and Tallinn could not join. My colleague Peter Laurson and I discussed that Tartu and Piirissaare have also been considered for a long time. The Municipality of Piirissaare already works in Tartu. Imagine how decent it would be if we joined up! After that, I'd split the money up nicely. Is this project possible, or is this law not helping to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U119	Good Aadu, unfortunately, you did not make any good proposals to amend this draft. I have to admit that we were discussing whether the continent really needs to have a common border with the joiners. In the Commission's majority's view, however, and unfortunately your party did not make a good proposal to us on this matter. With this bill, it will be possible to come to this hall next time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U120	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U121	Good waitress! There has been talk of an exception to the islands. If I'm thinking of Vormsi, I think the current procedure would allow Vormsi to join Haapsalu or Ridala, for example. I don't think there's any need to make an exception. But Saaremaa suffers from comparison with every other county in mainland Estonia. Where does the need for an exception come from? At the same time, we have a number of insular powers on the continent, which are very separate. Why is the continent still not allowed to join without having a common border?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U122	Good Neeme! It must simply be said that there was no proposal for improvement for the Commission to be able to join the continent without having a common border.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U123	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U124	As you know about your life and work experience, borrowing loans during the merger period is a major problem for municipalities. One example is from Põlva, where during the accession period, rather than during the accession period but during the survey, 1.55 million loans were taken. The Minister has just said, in response to an inquiry, that it is normal, that there has been no violation of the law. Do you agree that this is normal and facilitates the merger of local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U125	This question is a little broader. This brings us to the subject that, when one municipality proposes to join another municipality, the rules of the game that apply during the accession negotiations should be agreed in the first phase of the process. For example, what investments will be made at that time and what investments will be made during the next or the next period of government. In many cases, mergers run into the sand because someone uses or 'abuses' is perhaps even the right word to take advantage of this moment and see that one municipality has a much higher loan burden than the other. At the same time, I know from experience that several mergers have not been made because one municipality proposes to another and has a much higher loan burden, the other, who has a much lower loan burden, does not want to accept the proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U126	Please, Mr Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U127	Good colleague! I think this is a very good bill. You have proposed to change the points in the Local Government Organisation Act concerning the payment of compensation to the municipality's parent and to the Chairman of the Council for six months. Was compensation for other officials discussed? We know that in its time, Tarmo Loodus was dealing with this issue, which then gave an example of a federal state in Germany, where a very large number of officials were compensated for the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U128	The Commission did not discuss compensation for other officials, but it was a matter of whether six months' salary or more could be paid. When we look at our neighbours, former rural municipality parents are hired in Finland for the next period, they will be guaranteed a five-year job. In making our proposal, it has been taken into account that the leader of the accession negotiations is usually the mayor, the mayor or the chairman of the council, and if they have confidence that they will receive some kind of compensation, then perhaps they will be more easily willing to carry it out. Life has shown that if the mayor says no, then the council doesn't decide to join.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U129	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U130	Honourable waitress! I will return to the current problem on the continent with my question. At first reading, I asked this question and now I repeat it. The mainland has a million examples that the territory of the municipalities is fragmented, such as the new part of Kohtla-Järve, the two parts of Narva. These examples are only for Ida-Viru County. Did the Commission discuss the fact that there are local governments in Estonia, some of which have no common borders?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U131	Yes, there are three such municipalities in Estonia. We did not discuss this directly in the Commission, but we did not discuss it directly in the political groups. At least in our group, the subject was raised and we discussed that it is perhaps early to put the point in the draft that the continent may also join without having a common border. The counties should first decide what their attraction centers are, certainly there are more than one attraction center in each county. If there are attraction centres in place where municipalities will join in the coming years, then it may be possible to allow to join in such a way that there is no common border. But now if one of the municipalities of Võrumaa joins one of the municipalities of Harjumaa, they have no common section whatsoever.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U132	Please, Mr Black, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U133	Good colleague! I was moved to ask you for a good answer as to why compensation should be paid to the parish elders and councillors. The idea of paying those who may have a conflict of social and personal interest emerged from it must be influenced by the same vote and action. You don't smell like corruption in here, do you? Did the Commission discuss this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U134	I don't know if there's corruption, if the chairman of the council and the mayor agree. I don't think so. It is usually the case that the Chairman of the Council and the Head of the Government are on one team or at least one coalition. I don't know if it's the council that's in opposition and mayor's or mayor's coalition. So I don't see the threat of corruption, Aadu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U135	Please, Mr Toobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U136	Good waitress! I'm gonna ask you again about one particular case. The city of Haapsalu wished to join or at least negotiated with several smaller municipalities. The municipality of Ridala announced that they did not want to join, and it took the city of Haapsalu to continue to negotiate with other municipalities because they do not have a common border. Ridala municipality has exactly a circle around Haapsalu city. How practical is it, however, that the continent must have a common border when local governments join them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U137	I agree, Priit, with your opinion that the county could abolish this border requirement. I would like to stress once again that I support the idea that there is no need to have this border. But there's gotta be some traction centers in place before that. You gave a concrete example from Läänemaa. I don't think there's any other option in these small municipalities than Haapsalu being the centre of attraction. But there was just this case that the mayor thought the same way and the chairman of the council thought the other way around, so the decision was not taken. Decisions are often based on specific individuals. Aadu asked me before whether we should make it clear that some compensation was provided for when a person lost his or her job after the merger. In this case, maybe the local government leaders are thinking a little more about the interests of their region and not their own personal interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U138	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Aivar Kokk. Do you want to open negotiations? Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U139	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The subject is pretty complicated. I didn't come here to give a speech because I'm against volunteering for local governments. On the contrary! But I'm against confusion, disorder and uncertainty. Chaos theory is an accepted theory in social science, but it should not be very enthusiastic under the leadership of the state. There is no doubt that both national and self-government policies need to be organised. It would be quite fun, however, if the country's place management policy were to be organized in some respects, in other words, if it were a complex of determined activities to promote a sector in the interests of society. Unfortunately, administrative reform and state reform are likely to be among the most consistently ignored issues where development has been allowed to take its own course. And unfortunately, the bill we are discussing today will not help us either. For once, when we talk about state reform, the national authorities once set up regional structures, then they will liquidate them again. No one understands whether we have county management, regional site management, or central site management. The regions that developed in the meantime differed from one authority to another. Now some authorities are abandoning regions, others are strengthening regions, and others are going back to county administration. Each ministry has its own solutions, which sometimes seems pretty fun autonomous, but from the point of view of public administration, all of this simply creates confusion, problems and additional costs for the state. Whatever the policy of the state is, it doesn't make sense. Self-sustaining municipalities cannot be called administrative reform. Municipalities simply join because they are constantly impoverished and their autonomy decreases. Having been systematically ignored and ignored by the central government and looking desperately for solutions, municipalities either initiate mergers or withdraw into themselves, ignoring their substantive inability. Municipalities are extremely different now. Tallinn and Piirissaare operate in a common lawroom, they have similar rights and obligations. The Chancellor of Justice has drawn the attention of the Riigikogu to the fact that the fundamental rights of residents are not guaranteed in the same way in different municipalities. This is no longer a matter of autonomy for municipalities. It is a question of the capacity of local governments to carry out the tasks assigned to them and of the rights and expectations of people. As a result of spontaneous mergers, differences are increasing. Those who join together and form a strong core should, as it were, be happy, and there are reasons for it. Their people have hope. However, in the case of small rural municipalities that are sidelined and alone, the question arises as to how they will cope. The government coalition's willingness to restore the local governments' revenue base and also to strengthen the cooperation of local governments does not yet appear to exist. Last week there were several talks about giving more functions to the local government associations. Ministers, however, expressed the view that this could not be done because the self-government associations were weak. The weakness of the local government associations was referred to as an inevitability. But it would be interesting to know why they're weak. Where does this come from, or from, one of the European Union's directives or from the weather characteristic of Estonia? I do not understand what is preventing the creation of a strong regional cooperation environment based on local governments. This bill encourages local governments to join. Everything's great in itself. Unlocking the merger areas.. Reasonable; increasing the connection Only this bill does not carry the spirit of a coherent policy of coordination. Moreover, the picture of the municipality landscape becomes even more confusing. There is also an opportunity for municipalities to develop in such a way that some of them may not have a common border. We will have very large municipalities, large municipalities, small municipalities and now municipalities on the map as spots. We shouldn't joke about administrative arrangements. Local government is by its very nature a local and community concept, not just an economic entity. Where is the organization of the administrative division of the territory? There is no point in talking about insular peculiarities. Our larger islands are large enough to withstand any comparison with any other county. We also have a number of insular properties on the mainland and the connection of the insular nature of the rural municipality to the rural municipality on the mainland would also be allowed by the current regime. The question arises as to what is the policy that will take place in cooperation between the current government and the coalition of the Riigikogu. Is it really 'the crazier, the better' policy? There is nothing to prevent the coalition from approaching the issue of administrative reform in a holistic and systematic manner. As soon as the local government associations have a stronger legislative base and the possibility of closer cooperation at the county level, the need for a very large number of activities that may now seem nice will disappear, but what we will have to do in a short time. This topic is extremely important. I wish the initiators of the bill a great deal of reason and desire to come before the Riigikogu with a complex approach so that we can go in the direction where society expects it to go with our administrative arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U140	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the fifth item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U141	We will move on to the sixth item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Public Service and other laws (No 365) initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! If the new Civil Service Act enters into force on 1 April of this year, it will change or repeal 40 laws. The law brings about a change in the details of living arrangements in a wide range of areas, including the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Today I am before you with the points that, according to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, need to be clarified in the Civil Service Act and in other related laws. First, the proposals of the Ministry of Social Affairs to amend the law. The Amendment to the Individual Labour Dispute Resolution Act ensures that employees and employers' representatives in the Labour Dispute Committee are paid a salary. It shall be bound by the law on salaries of senior civil servants in force after the entry into force of the Civil Service Act. Secondly, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act harmonises terminology and references to those of the Public Service Act, the right of registration as unemployed persons and the types and list of persons entitled to unemployment benefit are brought into line with the new law. The same law also amends the conditions for the payment of the salary allowance. The salary allowance will not be paid in the future when the official is recruited by the local government unit. Fourthly, both the External Action Service Act and the new Civil Service Act ensure equal treatment of spouses' beneficiaries and take account of both future cases of marriage fees when registered as unemployed and receiving unemployment benefits. In addition, as I said, there are also proposals by the Ministry of Finance which amend the basic text of the Civil Service Act and the transitional provisions. Firstly, the scope of the State's duties is specified in relation to the funeral of officials who have died in the performance of their duties. If the state has so far taken on the organisation of an official's funeral, it is especially for those who have died that a better solution is for the country to cover the costs of the funeral. Secondly, the State's staff and salary record shall be supplemented in order to keep a record of persons who are neither officials nor employees but are nevertheless involved in the work of the institution. For example, the Ministry of Finance has brought in assistant police officers who are required to make certain payments in order to fulfil their obligations under the law. The third topic of the Ministry of Finance is to supplement the implementing provisions in order to allow the preferential conditions for the transition to the new law to apply also to those persons who, due to the transfer of the functions of the administration to the administration. This relates mainly to the large-scale consolidation of state support services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U143	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to interrupt the debate on this draft. I ask you, good waitress, to leave the Riigikogu for a moment so that we can return to the previous item on the agenda, which was the second reading of Bill 352. We missed a procedure there, a revision of the amendments. Will you allow me to go back to it, or will someone protest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U144	Then let us go to the amendments to Bill 352. Ten proposals have been received to amend the draft. The first amendment is made by the commission. The second amendment is made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. The third amendment is made by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment is tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth amendment is tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth amendment is tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh amendment is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is partly taken into account. The eighth amendment is tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, the position of the commission is to consider the substance. The ninth and tenth amendments have been tabled by the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. Our decision was to finish the second reading, that decision remains in force. Thank you, and I'm sorry for the little mess!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U145	I ask the waitress, Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas, to return to the Riigikogu Chair! Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? No questions. I thank the Minister. Mr. Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Civil Service Act and other laws at its meeting on 12 February. I am not giving an overview of this draft because it was done very thoroughly in Taavi Rõiva, Minister of Social Affairs, who has just spoken. At the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee, Minister Taavi Rõivas, Adviser to the Minister of Social Affairs Anni Tooma, Legal Adviser to the Ministry of Social Affairs Teet Torgo and other advisers from both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance participated. The Minister presented the draft and gave an overview of the reasons why it was initiated. As you have already heard, these are primarily the implementing decisions of the Civil Service Act, which relate to the entry into force of the Civil Service Act on 1 April this year. The Committee on Social Affairs took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session by 20 February the decision was consensual; to propose that the decision to terminate the first reading be consensual; to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 16 a.m. on 26 February; this decision was also consensual; and to appoint Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U147	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of Bill 365. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 26 February 2013. The first reading is closed and the eighth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U148	Let's move on to item nine. The first reading of the basic school and upper secondary school law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related draft law amending other laws begins. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U149	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is a draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and other laws in connection with it. I think that, before taking up the proposals contained in this law, it would be appropriate to dwell on the question of why these legislative changes are necessary at all. They should be seen in the key to modernising education arrangements. From here on, we have to ask what we want to modernize or upgrade in Estonia's educational organisation. We also have to ask why we want it. Because education arrangements meet today's requirements. The question of the extent to which our educational organisation and Estonian school meet today's requirements can be answered differently. When these different answers are summed up, the idea emerges that the gap between our school reality and our life outside the school has grown and continues to grow in recent years. In part, it is probably an objective and even global process. Technological progress has not reached school walls as quickly as it might or as many of us hope. This problem is so great that it is too much to be dealt with within the framework of the current legislative amendment. There are, however, a number of shortcomings that have been particularly characteristic of the Estonian education organisation, especially the last 10 to 15 years. First, the school network. Looking at a bit of the school network, we can see that it carries the mindset of an era of collectivisation and industrialisation. Look at Võhma or Lasnamägi, the picture's pretty much the same. A small surface construction there was created by the boom of the years after the restoration of independence, when decision-making came closer to schools, Tallinn and other places, and there was hope that it would allow the reopening of all those schools that had been shut down during the occupation. Today we have gradually made the school network more affordable and able to pull together, but in many ways, especially as regards upper secondary schools, there is still a long way to go. I understand why they're trying to hold on to high school at all costs. Unfortunately, these grounds are not primarily related to education and its quality, but are based on various local political interests and probably also on the misconception that educational compulsion can somehow resist the objective processes that lead the people to larger centres, and it is as if it were possible to solve the problem of employment in all Estonian municipalities by creating jobs in the educational sector. So one reason is demography. The sharpness of the problem is shown by the fact that there are schools in Estonia where there are fewer children than employees and heated areas over 300 square metres per child. In some municipalities, children are three times less than 20 years ago, but teachers are just as many as they were then. However, we also have regions where there are several times more children than a few decades ago, but the necessary infrastructure has not been developed and unfortunately there are no good mechanisms for this. Let's take another field. Teachers are also remunerated under Soviet regulations, currently issued in 1985, under the so-called tarification scheme. This is despite the end of the occupation, the new constitution, the Employment Contracts Act and many other legislative acts that should, if not modernize this area, at least bring it into line with the Estonian legal order. It is not of minor importance to note that the current Education Act dates from before the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Therefore, the current amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act must also be seen as part of one of the major processes. We certainly need a revised educational code based on the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, i.e. not on the political preferences of the transitional period, but on the constitutional legal order that has already been built up and would systematically do so in all areas of education, eliminate the contradiction that we have repeatedly noticed and noted, but what we have so far been unable to change: we need more education laws than the laws governing the work of educational institutions. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is also a law of schools and institutions in particular, not so much a law of primary and secondary education. The preparations for amending this law began in June 2011. So it's been going on for over a year and a half. There have been quite a number of discussions with a number of partners during this period. What has been placed on your tables is a common part in which, it seems to me, it is possible to find a sensible consensus or compromise. True, many things could have been more radical and bolder for me to see better. But the political reality is that partners want to participate to such an extent that they can feel ownership of this process. That is why I do not think that too strong steps, even if they are rationally justified, would give the best result or be useful in view of the best outcome. I'll give you a quote. I take this from the document that began to be drawn up in 2008 by the Estonian Education Forum and the Estonian Cooperation Assembly, which, a little more than a year ago, reached the Ministry of Education and Research as a piece of documents 'The five challenges of Estonian education' and 'Estonian Education Strategy 2012 I'm not going to stop at the strategy part. This proposal has been accepted with goodwill and I hope that the strategy will be completed. a by 1 September. However, I will read out an important part of the short summary on the item: 'The most urgent tasks to be solved in Estonian education are the organisation of the network of educational institutions, including the separation of primary school and upper secondary school; the increase in the quality of teacher training with the provision of decent pay to teachers; the actual implementation of the provisions of the national curriculum and the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act; the introduction of a financing model to ensure fair access to higher education and vocational education and to support the quality of learning; the much wider involvement of employers in curriculum development in both vocational and higher education. " Most of these recommendations have already been implemented at the level of laws or regulations. The part concerning comprehensive school and upper secondary school education is in front of you. I don't think you can call this a stretch or a rush. For a year and a half, it has been both long enough and short enough to believe that sensible thoughts have been selected and proposed to Parliament for discussion. What are the main points? Appreciation, furnishing, support and simplification of the teaching profession. Schools and teachers will be given more freedom and responsibility. The division of responsibilities between the actors involved in the education system must become clearer and the related funding more transparent. These three main lines of action are also reflected in the draft under discussion. I'll start with the school network. We need to free comprehensive school from the pressure of upper secondary school and from the shadow of upper secondary school, which in many cases has harassed good but even more independent basic schools. Based on what is published in the press, and also based on our own information, we can name mostly "elite secondary schools" as good schools. Very few of us can name good basic schools, since then basic schools that operate without upper secondary school. Basic school and upper secondary school must be functionally divorced, and this is a rather unanimous conclusion from various studies, be it domestic or international, including a joint project on the Estonian educational strategy already recalled. The proposed separation is flexible and long-term and places the main emphasis on functional separation. We probably need a lot less upper secondary schools than we do now, but we definitely need at least one strong upper secondary school in every county, one upper secondary school that is rightfully able to compete among the top 20 upper secondary schools. We have 15 counties, and it should not be an impossible task to have at least one upper secondary school of each of them reach the top 20. Today we find only the upper secondary schools of Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and Narva from among these 20 state examinations. In 2012, a school in Haapsalu was among them. But the best schools in many counties are still 80 or even 100. This weakening of upper secondary school education in many regions of Estonia must end. The path offered to get there is the institutionalisation of state secondary schools. The second topic. We all remember how the children of Tallinn competed for the first class a few years ago. A competition such as this, which has not been the best organised and is pedagogically questionable, should come to an end. With the help of the bill, we hope to create a situation in which comprehensive school will receive all the children whose school it is. A strong primary school close to home should be a norm, not an exception. If there are vacancies in this school after the adoption of the children of the place of residence, they may also be filled in by means of a competition if necessary. Another fundamental change: if we are left with institutionally integrated schools, all primary school graduates must have equal access to upper secondary school and not be admitted as a priority to those who have completed primary school at the same school, and only then others. The integrated versions of the progymnasium and upper secondary school are also likely to be touched in debates. That, too, has been carefully considered. I will only say so much here that allowing a progymnasium to be admitted to some upper secondary schools actually kills a strong primary school. It is quite clear that in such a case, parents prefer to take their children to progymnasiums after graduating from the sixth grade in order to give them better access to upper secondary school. Ensuring equal opportunities for upper secondary school education could, in my opinion, be one of the development goals. This is the objective that this bill has sought to achieve. The next issue is clarity and transparency in accountability and funding. The so far vaguely formulated responsibility for secondary education has been much clearer for the country than it was in the current law. Is that enough? It may be discussed whether this could not be solely the responsibility of the State. As has already been said, this is a compromise, given the current situation and the capacity of larger municipalities and the desire to provide upper secondary school education. Each county should have at least one state secondary school with a proper learning environment and options. Financing. A situation in which no one, the public, teachers, officials, local government or members of the Riigikogu can be sure that the funds allocated from the state budget will reach where they are assigned is not normal. It is not normal, too, that despite the fact that the increase in teachers' pay was decided last year, a number of municipalities are still in a situation where teachers' pay is not fixed and there is confusion, who still pays the salary, who is good and who is bad. That doesn't make any sense. If there is no other way, greater clarity must be created at the level of the law. If there is nothing else left, in order to be clear about both liability and rights, the possibility that wages will be paid directly out of the state budget without intermediaries must be considered. Finally, I am talking about not the least important teachers. The funding system and work organisation based on the qualification means that the teacher is a tutor. The number of hours you have, which is your load of 6, 16 or 26, is a much more important indicator than whether you work as a full-time teacher or part-time teacher, as is the case with most other employees. If we want to eliminate the situation where a teacher is an instructor and teaches the subject, and someone else has to be responsible for all the other tasks of the teacher, then the way in this direction is to define the teacher's position in a comprehensive way and establish the corresponding decent salary. Such provisions are, in effect, included in this bill. It is not enough to give 10 or 20 hours in 35 weeks of study, but to define the teacher's tasks in a holistic way. These include, among other things, class management, when it is so reasonable to organise the work. I very much hope that the responsibility specified in the draft law will ultimately result in a clear responsibility for the school manager, a clearer responsibility for the board and the teaching council, and, above all, a clear responsibility for the director. Responsibility is balanced with resources, which the Director will have much more power to decide on than has been the case so far. A few more words about bureaucracy and rules. The draft has relaxed the rigid rules in several places and left the decision-making power at the level of the local government or school. It is true that there is a risk that these rights will be abused, but without reasonable trust and supervision, we are now on the road to over-control and rigid frameworks that waste resources and disperse responsibility, and ultimately fail to guarantee the goal we expect of education most: clear rights, obligations and responsibilities. As I understand it, I have 30 seconds left to ask me a lot of questions. I will recap with the following keywords: for school and teacher, more freedom, more responsibility and funding for transparent, fair and fair reception in first class and upper secondary school and a structured school network based on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U150	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You spoke very nicely about the modernisation of the school network and education. As an economician, I understood the point, but I asked the education specialist Mailis Reps if I understood correctly. How could I tell? I realized that the state is cutting costs: small schools are closed down, support professionals are no longer a matter of the state, it is a school matter, it is also a matter of interest and non-class work is not a national matter; it is also a school matter. So let's cut the costs and have them take a look there. Let's give away the lessons, and that's what modernizing our education is all about. The rooms must not be large. Whether the school has logo beets and specialized teachers, it's not a matter of the state either. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U152	I don't think you've understood anything at all. Well, with these advisors, you have to be able to choose the advisors. I don't know what to say about shrinking education costs. Over the last few years, educational expenditure has been steadily increasing and the current coalition is planning to continue to grow. The money must be directed to education, not taken away. Where you find the savings, I don't understand that! Now to another question, which you touched a little bit. That is true, and so I told you that I would like a clearer responsibility. I would like to achieve a situation where it can no longer be as it often is today, that one party says it is not his business, and the other party also says that it is not his business, but it is the students or the wider public as a whole who are suffering. That is why the draft does indeed set out more clearly the responsibility, the one who does what. Even if some of those responsible like it, the pain must be tolerated. I hope that responsibility will be distributed fairly. That is why I cannot in any way support a mentality such as some partners sometimes using their political rhetoric to get all the benefits for me and all the costs for you. Let's share the responsibility fairly! As far as the changes are concerned, I say that, be it the support specialists, the interest groups or any other circumstances you have mentioned, compared to the current law, the situation of any service or category has not deteriorated. I repeat: for no category or service, the regulation of the PGS changes has made the situation worse. It is most inappropriate to bring in students and support specialists with special educational needs, because there are no amendments to this draft law amending the PGS.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U153	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U154	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister! However, the separation of basic schools and upper secondary schools and the creation of national, so-called clean upper secondary schools have created a great deal of problems. What studies do you rely on, saying that education in "full cycle schools" is not good enough and that state secondary schools in county centres provide better education for young people? What are you relying on?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U155	What am I relying on? I've already referred to a document. If you really want, I can read a lot of research. But you can also find them very well on the website of the Ministry of Education and Research. I would like to highlight the arguments put forward in support of this functional separation. First of all, basic education differs by nature from secondary education; this difference is fundamental. Basic education is compulsory education; it must be guaranteed by the state in a uniform way, in a uniform quality everywhere. It does not provide for options or specialisation. Basic education is also comprehensive compared to secondary education in the sense that we do not have a general education and vocational education or the like. If we look at the practice in the countries close to us or in the countries farther away, we can see that these levels of education are also institutionally separated in the majority. Given our historical experience, we have not proposed institutional separation by force, but our proposal is to do so evolutionaryly, as different regions are prepared to proceed with such institutional separation. Moreover, there are also possibilities for continuing so-called tube schools or full cycle schools in the long term, if justified for various reasons. Finally, far from being the least important: the biggest victims of integrated schools are primary schools with no upper secondary school level. All statistical analyses show that access to higher education is significantly lower than that of schools where upper secondary school is available. I see no reason why we should consider such a situation reasonable and why we should not resist it, especially given that the slightly more distant history of the Republic of Estonia shows that we have had primary schools that are institutionally separated from primary schools and upper secondary schools and, as has already been said, the practice of other countries refers to this direction. Integrated upper secondary schools, especially in rural areas, were mostly created during the Soviet era, with completely different ideological, social and economic arguments. These have been the reasons you may find in these studies. So once again, check with them on the Ministry of Education and Research website and I think you will get the answer to your question if my answer was somehow incomplete or incomplete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U156	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U157	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act eliminate the state-regulated load of 18 to 24 hours. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law explains that the determination of working time and duties must remain a matter of agreement between the employee and the employer. How can it be a national obligation to ensure that all children have the opportunity to receive quality education close to home when it depends on negotiations at school level? Clearly, the teacher cannot stand in front of the class for tens of hours.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U158	I didn't understand exactly what you asked for, but I'm trying to answer within the bounds of my modest understanding. Should the contact hour load be determined and, if so, should it be specified, should it be stated in the law? We've got the law on it. It is defined as a range, and this range and the resulting regulation, as I said, come from one of the rules on the provision of an hour in due time on the basis of tarification. Let's take it and look over the bay, you don't have to look any further. There's no such standard in the law. Let's look at the Employment Contracts Act and find that there is a general working time of 40 hours for full-time work that teachers have been reduced to 35 hours according to the law. I think we could aim for the teacher's work to fit into 35 weeks, out of vacation time, well roughly within 44 weeks. Now for the contact hour load. The contact hour load is planned to be calculated in the future: 18 plus 24 divided by 2, which is 21 contact hours. This is a calculated burden and may vary between teachers, as it is organised at school. I think it's easy to understand that if a teacher is not only a class manager, but also has other responsibilities within the framework of his duties, his hourly load may be slightly lower, especially if the subject he teaches requires improvements in homework. A teacher of another subject who is not required to take the class and who has other duties may also have a load of more than 21 hours in order to earn a full - time salary. In our opinion, it is reasonable to allow this flexibility to the school. This, once again, is far from coming from my personal whim, but we are here on the basis of an internship study in several countries, and we have also consulted people who are in favour of this flexible way of learning, rather than sticking to bureaucratic regulation at the level of the law. But I admit that the negotiations on working conditions will indeed be more tense, because the strict rules of the law are less stringent. However, as has already been said, the responsibility of both the teacher and the head of the school grows, as freedom grows and, together with freedom, the responsibility for the results of its work grows. This responsibility must be discharged, and the Ministry of Education and Research, along with other bodies provided for by law, will also monitor it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U159	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U160	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. The new basic school and upper secondary school law, especially in educational circles, has an acute discussion and many questions are asked, including to members of the Riigikogu. We can answer some, but it is especially valuable to ask the smartest, not some less qualified advisors, as you taught your colleague, Kaljuvee. In developing the new basic school and upper secondary school law, the Ministry of Education and Research has stressed that school models remain flexible and that the model of a separate upper secondary school is not imposed on anyone. At the same time, it is said that integrated institutions of primary schools and upper secondary schools, i.e. full cycle schools, can no longer be established from 1 September 2013. Do you not feel that these two statements are somewhat contradictory and that probably only one of them can prove true? Which statement is limping, or have I just misunderstood something?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U161	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U162	You don't really need a lot of wisdom here. Something very simple has been said: those schools that exist as full-cycle schools will not be closed by law, but the creation of new schools as full-cycle schools under this law will not be possible. In this sense, this rule, let's say, doesn't apply force to the existing one, but sets out quite a clear political choice for future schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U163	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U164	As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U165	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, As regards the separation of comprehensive school and upper secondary school, employers have come up with a desire to combine vocational and upper secondary school education into one whole. What concrete steps have you taken to create such a comprehensive secondary education community?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U166	Thank you. First of all, the draft law allows them not only to be brought together but also institutionally to be merged into one institution with one director and with one teacher and student. There is such an opportunity. I mentioned to you that I also see, ideally for a few years, that there is going to be a law on educational attainment, i.e. a law on secondary education, which includes both vocational education and general secondary education. Speaking of practical steps, I think we should move forward, say so, quickly, but not in haste. There are a number of vocational training institutions and upper secondary schools who are willing to consider and experiment with integrated variants. Such thoughts are promoted in Järvamaa; for such thoughts, I think there is room in Räpina and there is room for them wherever they want. However, the Ministry of Education is currently not convinced that it could be systematically implemented across Estonia. Rather, pilot projects could move forward and see what results they will produce. If the results are good, it could be applied more widely. So the Ministry of Education does not have any ambitious plan, but basically it seems to us that such developments could be supported. I have also asked many schools who have shown interest in it to see what is being done in Finland. There are many counties that have gone down the road to forming one middle-level educational institution with over 4,000 students. I know that the creation of an upper secondary school with 4,000 students in Estonia can give rise to serious criticism of gigantomania, and I would not want that. That is why I am not rushing with solutions, but it is certainly worth moving in both directions: so that students in vocational education institutions can study general education subjects and learners on the basis of a general education programme or a national upper secondary school curriculum can acquire certain professional skills, of course on a smaller scale than students on the basis of the curricula of a vocational training institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U167	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! As a result of this bill, the ranks of teachers disappear and, from a certain point of view, neither methodological teachers nor senior teachers are anymore. Their work volume is increasing, status is losing, wages remain formally unchanged, but they are actually decreasing. I have doubts about how the practical experience of the most experienced teachers of such a system can be passed on. Where is their incentive for them to do this work?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U169	Your apocalyptic introduction is another good example of how you can come up with claims that have no factual cover. You said the teachers' pay is falling. What can I say to that? The second argument was that the burden on teachers is increasing. Why would this burden increase? Rather, these steps should reduce the burden on teachers rather than increase them. But now I come to the heart of this: tarification, grades and pay. A while ago, our public service paid an extra fee for our degree in science and language skills: a little for a master's degree, a lot for a doctorate, a little more for Latvian and a little more for French. The rigid linking of such formal criteria to wages has been in practice in many areas of life. In the vast majority, it has been abandoned. One might even say that it is a remnant of the industrial age. Then there was the idea that we could quite accurately and mechanically determine the functions that somebody has to perform, and if these wheels are a little thicker or go around a little faster on the basis of some paper, then you have to pay more. If we want an open and dynamic pool of work that is constantly evolving, decisions need to be taken locally, much more related to the actual performance of the work than to formal qualifications. That is why we have abandoned it in the public service. This has not only been done in Estonia. This kind of Bismarck dream was widely used in European countries until the end of the last century. At an increasing rate, it has been abandoned. There are currently no minimum wage rates in our universities, yet we have lecturers, docents and professors and they are somehow rewarded. Doctorate doesn't involve an automatic raise in the university walls, but we know that people with a doctorate earn more. Served, I hope, not automatically, in relation to the formal criterion, but depending on the actual application of the qualification. Giving such flexibility should increase openness and substantial motivation to do good work in this environment, and, if necessary, skills should be enhanced. As far as job titles or grades are concerned, as has already been said, its administrative structure, which differs from that of all other professions, should replace the qualifications of vocational education and training. There is also a big debate here about how we should call these people, whether they should be a Methodist or a master teacher, whether they should be a senior teacher or a teacher or some other name. I think qualifications should remain. Just as they exist in higher education, they could be in general education. But we have considered it useful to untie them automatically from the rates of pay, and I still think that it makes sense. Pretty sure school leaders are qualified enough to make competent decisions. I can't imagine why their logic should be reversed because a less qualified teacher is paid a higher salary than a better qualified teacher. If the head of school is responsible for the performance of the school, he naturally promotes, supports and motivates those whose performance is better, as is the case with doctors and elsewhere. I do not think that maintaining such a rigid regime in educational establishments is justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U170	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U171	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The teaching profession intends to set a post-based fee based on a general working time of 35 hours per week. All teacher duties are included in this working time. As a result, the draft plans to abolish the fees for class management. As we know, the class manager often has to deal with very complicated things and difficult work. He must cooperate with officials in relation to difficult students or families and do a lot of other things. I would like to clarify: how, or whether, there is any intention of compensating for the very difficult work of class managers in the future, and why should one teacher be a class manager?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U172	Thank you. In well rude lines, there are half as many classes in Estonia as there are teachers, or in the middle every other teacher is also a class leader. The class is usually run until the students finish one of their school grades. Many teachers do so constantly, many having a few years or more apart. I believe that whoever leads the class could in principle continue to be a matter of organisation of the school. The current regulation provides for a premium to be paid for it. An additional charge not specifying where the time is taken for this work, whether it takes place outside or inside the prescribed working hours and whether such an additional load on the full load is in accordance with the Employment Contracts Act. There's gonna be a lot of questions. In the current law, the class manager has a premium of 10% of the level wage, which is roughly equal to the equivalent of 2.1 contact hours. I believe that, in the future, the school manager or his authorised person can ensure that the teacher's professional duties can be carried out in a class management capacity: by reducing the contact hours, as has already been said, by a statistically 2.1 hour, by the time he takes the class management. That's the idea. I myself believe that classleading is underrated, the volume of this work is probably greater than 2.1 hours of contact. If such regulation, as proposed in the PGS, materialises, then the head of school will have the opportunity to organise the work accordingly at school. If it is agreed at school that it will be equal to four or five contact hours, the school manager will have the opportunity to organise it flexibly. If there's a different agreement at school, it could be smaller. We don't consider formal precepts to be useful at ministry level. I certainly do not want to agree with those who, in my opinion, a little demagogically claim that the Ministry of Education underestimates class management and wants to lose the premium. We just want the money for this job to be on the payroll to be taken into account. In other areas of life, all the work that is planned is included in wages. Indeed, the extra costs of extraordinary tasks can be paid as in other areas of life; nothing will change here. But the additional obligation of years cannot be fulfilled by overtime. I believe that this is also understandable on the basis of general principles.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U173	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U174	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, My question is that far from all students are equipped with the necessary textbooks and workbooks. This should be guaranteed by publishers and, to that end, you, or the Minister's regulation, also obliges them to do so. If this regulation and requirement are not complied with, the state must ensure that textbooks and educational resources are available. As a minister, what can you do to ensure that the state provides textbooks and other educational tools for children? So far, this regulation of the Minister of Education has not been complied with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U175	I will ensure this in such a way that I have brought before you the draft law amending the basic school and upper secondary school law, which states that the state will now be responsible for ensuring that textbooks are available in a minimum capacity. If you read the law in force, you will see that the state has no such responsibility at present. The market for teaching literature is market-based, teachers are free to decide what kind of teaching literature they need to complete the curriculum. They can choose from all available literature. If there is no textbook or educational tool suitable for them, the state will not be responsible for its existence on the basis of the current regulation. I share your concern that it is not quite right. At a minimum level, the state should ensure that textbooks of sufficient quality are available and accessible. At the moment, it is only a financing instrument, we are sending this money to local authorities (this money is always small, but it is an issue of its own) and then they buy on the market. When these changes enter into force, the State will ensure that the textbooks actually exist and, if necessary, intervene in this market, either by placing a public order on the publisher or by other means. I am not going to dwell on the idea of creating a "library depositary" or an electronic database, where electronic versions would at least be available. That, too, is a controversial issue. I know that textbook publishers are not happy about all these regulations, but basically, this law is designed to give the state greater responsibility and greater responsibilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U176	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act sets out measures to support children with special needs in the normal class. Indeed, because of the lack of children or for other reasons, it may be necessary and possible to involve children with special needs in normal class work. My colleague, Mailis, told me that in many countries support for assistant teachers and teachers had to be used very successfully. Hence the question: When will we ever reach the point where the teacher's help is also available in the normal class, where there is one or more children with special educational needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U178	Thank you. A complicated and complex question. There were a number of assumptions in this question that, in my best understanding, are not entirely true. I will start with children with special educational needs who have had a lot of talk around them and whose problems are really important. But I also think that these problems should be dealt with calmly and as emotionally as possible, looking at how the best outcome can be achieved. I start with the fact that today, according to the education information system, 24,000 of the 140,000 students have special educational needs. Twenty-four thousand! Understandably, most of these children study in mainstream schools. They have always studied in mainstream school, and they will probably continue to study there. Among these 24000 are 4,000 children, who could be described as children with special educational needs requiring special conditions. These are covered by additional rules and standards, which are met by creating special conditions in ordinary schools, creating classes for children with special needs (their rate of coverage is significantly lower) or setting up special schools. In so doing, the parent retains the right to place his or her child, even if the child has special educational needs, in a regular school. There is no planned mass increase in the number of children with special educational needs in mainstream schools. Therefore, there are no fundamental changes here. Now from the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. The regulation of education for children with special educational needs in this bill has remained the same, say 99%. If you find differences, they're of a technical nature. Therefore, it can be said that the situation of children with special educational needs does not improve or deteriorate as a result of this bill. However, learning conditions for children with special educational needs must in any case be improved, possibly through legislative changes. When we get to these legislative changes, we'll come to the Riigikogu with them. But the steps that are currently being planned are primarily aimed at creating a network of support specialists at county level for children with special educational needs. Why do you need it? The main reason for this is that, as you know very well, the average Estonian school is quite small. It is difficult and sometimes impossible to provide all kinds of support services in a small school on its own, employing people. This is why, in many cases, the practice has developed that a support specialist, be it a psychologist or a logo, does not work in one, two or three institutions, but in four or five institutions. He has four or five contracts of employment or employment contracts, and sometimes a contract of command. This way of organising this work is quite complicated and difficult for obvious reasons. Besides, these people are very hard to find. It is therefore reasonable to develop regional support centres, with the exception of major cities and larger schools, where such support professionals can work full-time. Now I'm just taking this opportunity to talk about another reproach that I hear all the time and which I think is trivial. But in order to disprove these empty words in any way, I will give you the following figures. Children with special educational needs who need a distinct additional service are around 4% of all children, 4% of 140000. These children receive a statistical cost of 10 to 11 percent of the general education money, which means that these costs are 2.5 to 3 times higher than the cost to a regular school student. Again, no one plans to change this proportion. No one plans to save at the expense of children with special educational needs, but we want to provide support services for children with special educational needs in a more reasonable, better quality and a common standard throughout Estonia. They must be provided not only in stronger centres and larger schools, where it is much easier to organise, but also where the need for these services may be even greater, but because of the small size of the school or, at times, the general administrative incapacity of the local government, they are currently not available to these children.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U179	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U180	Thank you, Minister. Based on your previous answers, I've had more questions than I can ask in this room. Although I put myself in the queue when you were talking about teachers' qualifications, I want to take on your previous answer. I can't imagine how you can give advice to a schoolmaster who has only 0.2 loads of logo beets in some small towns of Estonia to find a specialist with higher education! That's not possible in real life. I have another question. According to you, this law is intended to make funding more transparent. I see you're writing down here that there's no need for public support for head of study anymore. It's the school's problem whether he hires a headmaster and where he can find the money to do it. This isn't serious. You call it school freedom, but you actually just want to save money. How can it be achieved that there are also teachers at school?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U181	I'll start with this support specialist at 0.2. This is the problem we want to address at national level by providing a regional service to help those schools where the full load does not come together. We provide support services at regional level and finance it from the state budget. This extracurricular service is to be developed. You also talked about headmasters who seem to be being harassed. The salaries of the head of study, the head of school and teachers are supported by the state budget under the current law, or more specifically by local authorities. I do not read that in the future, teachers, directors, or headmasters would in any way be deprived of this support. Their salaries should continue to be supported. The extent to which this should be done is a question of the financing model. The current model is problematic because it provides EUR 980 to support driver's salary, which is clearly below the salary that is de facto paid. In many cases, local authorities pay more. As for your further statement that we intend to save something, I would like to remind you once again that neither the Ministry of Education and Research nor the Government of the Republic have any intention of saving anything at the expense of schools. No cents, no euro is going to save! These instruments must be increased, but they must be used in a sensible way. This relates to another subject: the minimum composition of schools, including directors and teachers. Does every school need a principal and a headmaster? Most people are convinced that they do. What if I asked you what to do at a school with three students? There are already more employees than students. Would it be necessary to create a full post of headmaster? I don't think that makes any sense. This is quite a feature in schools. We are therefore currently negotiating with our partners so that management costs are set as a percentage of teachers' wage costs, if necessary in a progressive manner. In small schools, management costs would be somewhat higher than in large schools; such a scale effect is probably reasonable. Exactly what the percentage is, I think, it could remain the subject of the Government of the Republic regulation as it is today. I don't think setting it up would make it any better in the law. Finally. With regard to the many questions that there is no time to put here, I dare to allow the MPs that I will find time to respond to them outside this item. If any questions arise, send us or formally contact the Ministry and you will receive an answer. I hope that this form will also be entirely appropriate for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U182	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U183	Thank you very much, manager. Dear Minister, The amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act abolishes the national system of continuing training for teachers. It will be replaced by centralised national programmes, which will be funded from European funds. I do not know how this will go in the future, of course, but, for example, the transport of teachers, accommodation and other expenses are not to be compensated. How can a teacher working further, for example in Hiiumaa, receive his professional training and how does he arrive at the training site?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U184	Oh, yeah, so many questions! I'd be happy to answer. Thank you for recognising that there is a system of continuing training for teachers in the Republic of Estonia! But we've come to the conclusion at the Ministry of Education and Research that there's a little more systemic than the system. This is done in such a way that 3% of the state budget is allocated by law to local governments or schoolchildren, and schoolchildren need to provide further training for it. That's what they do on their own and based on their best understandings, they have the wallet. A random check of refresher training allows me to claim today that about two thirds of this 3% will go to finance refresher training and that two thirds of this will also reach the refreshment table of refresher training. If you call all this a system, it means a relatively good assessment. At the same time, we see that there is no central, coordinated continuing training money available to the state in connection with the implementation of the new curriculum. It's all spread out. That is why it is proposed in law to guarantee that 1% remains at school's discretion and 2% in the state budget for further training, which is distributed centrally on the basis of a coordinated continuing training plan. I myself believe that it is much easier to build a rational system this way than to distribute all the money and hope that a system will emerge by self-flow. As far as travel and hotel expenses are concerned, I don't know where to read out of the law that they can't be compensated. If there is a need for it, they can also be compensated. At least the text of the law does not, in my view, give rise to such a ban. I don't think that makes any sense either.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U185	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U186	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In paragraph 71 "Access to general secondary education', the sentence is that the state undertakes to hold at least one upper secondary school in each county. If, for example, there is a municipal upper secondary school or a private secondary school in the county, is the obligation of the state fulfilled or do you mean state secondary school?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U187	This is the state gymnasium. The current practice in regional negotiations has shown that this is quite a reasonable course. Agreements for the formation of state secondary schools already exist with most counties. I believe that by 2020 we will be able to establish a state secondary school in all counties. Should there be more than one? I'm sure there could be more. It is quite clear that in Harjumaa it is very difficult to perform any function of substance with only one state gymnasium, although outside Tallinn there might be a need for state gymnasium. We want at least one state gymnasium in every county. There's a whole bunch of counties where there could be more, but we tried to avoid nationalisation by force. Most partners agree that they would like to continue holding their upper secondary schools themselves. Above all, it is the larger cities that want it. I think that forced nationalisation should not be an end in itself. The state secondary schools currently exist in Tallinn in the form of a music secondary school in Narva, Nõos and Noaroots. The state secondary schools have been established in Haapsalu, Viljandi and Jõgeval. They are expected to become new buildings by 1 September and thus become serious centres. We believe that, within the framework of the proposed support measure for the upper secondary school network, there will be agreements before spring to finance five or even six national upper secondary schools, which could in future also become state secondary schools. All of these add up to more than ten. The constructive negotiations that have taken place convince me that this is not the wrong decision. In particular, the structurally weaker counties, where there is no strong centre in the form of a large city, such as South-East Estonia or Jõgeva County, where putting the development of a strong upper secondary school on the shoulders of a local government, be it even a county centre, would also be complicated in a purely organisational way. Netting, the need for investment, applying for them, the risks associated with the movement of students within the country are easier to organise. Therefore, I very much appreciate the cooperation we have had in Viljandi County, where, despite some differences and misinterpretations, I think we have finally found a rather good and functional solution for all the municipalities. Time will show what the future of the rest of the upper secondary schools in Viljandi County will be, whether they will continue independently or if integration will take place gradually. This also depends very much on other conditions, especially how well the state gymnasium starts, what its reputation is, and what the assessment of parents and students is. I think that such an evolutionary move is reasonable and appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U188	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U189	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You answered my previous question in such a way that this law does not bring any changes to students with special educational needs. You've been answering questions about students with special needs for quite a while. However, the paragraph 'Revision of § 51' of the explanatory memorandum explicitly states: 'The draft has significantly reduced the types of pupils' classes with different educational special needs. Excluded are the classes of students with speech disabilities, the classes of students with compound disabilities... ' That's it. In fact, schools are upset because you promised that the state would start financing support specialists in the future, but this law makes it very clear that the state will not do so. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U190	What you read out does not involve any changes of substance in my better knowledge, rather harmonisation of terminology and distribution. If I'm wrong about this, I'm sorry in advance! At least that's how I understand the people who prepared this bill. There's no political will to move anything around here. I previously answered more about children with special educational needs, because the basic school and upper secondary school law is artificially drawn into this debate. The most regrettable thing that I think has been done, otherwise, by the sympathetic and empathetic Tiina Kangro, who considered it possible to call it a trotsky draft in the key to children with special educational needs. I find it difficult to understand what he was doing to make his assessment. However, in the case of children with special educational needs, executive power has other options than the initiation of draft laws. We intend to clean up this network, in particular by trying to put an end to this disgraceful situation where, for historical reasons, learning and living conditions in some educational establishments are in fact something that cannot be satisfied with today. I guess time has changed, too. It is no longer appropriate to maintain separate educational institutions for children with tuberculosis, at least by specialists, etc. Now I'm coming to the support specialists. I would like to emphasise once again: the current Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act does not provide for wage support for support specialists from the state budget. In my best knowledge, it has never existed in all the history of the Republic of Estonia. That's why we can't talk about restoring anything. There is a beautiful word for it: it is dim; it is an irresponsible twilight. But as far as support specialists are concerned, good members of the Riigikogu, if the legislator has the conviction and will that they should be supported through schoolteachers, not as the Ministry of Education and Research wished, through the national support system, if you have this will and conviction, then the Ministry of Education and Research will not fight against it. Write a lot of money on this budget line, because empty promises have already been made. I think that if you can formulate this political will and find a financial cover for it, the Minister for Education and Science and the Ministry can have nothing against it. As has already been said, we now see public support through the support system as a solution, not support from the state budget for the funding of posts through municipal schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U191	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U192	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act establishes three courses of study. At the same time, there are several esteemed schools with a long tradition in Tallinn, all of which have specialized in a certain direction: Tallinn English College, Tallinn French Lytseum, Tallinn Reaalkool, Gustav Adolf Gymnasium, etc. Why should close schools develop all three courses of study when students have already chosen a course when they go to these schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U193	That's a good question. But in the composition of the Riigikogu, where such a wise decision was made, I did not participate, nor did I prepare this bill. What happened in their heads, who made this regulation, I can't explain it to you. But now from three directions. I think that the discussion of these three directions could be held here in the Riigikogu, because we are in a situation where many small upper secondary schools, which are sympathetic in every way, but in rather difficult circumstances are trying to provide this three courses with the number of small students, have at times come up with proposals such that these three directions could be general education, national embroidery and gymnastics. It really does not make sense to force such solutions into law. So there are problems with the three courses of study, I agree with you. I think that if the Committee on Culture wants to discuss this matter in substance, then the Ministry of Education and Research will certainly come to the aid of its advice. This example that there are more than three courses of study in Tallinn within a radius of more or less a kilometre does indeed give rise to a question for the legislator, which was then considered when this regulation was adopted in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U194	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U195	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will continue on the subject of Mr Tarmo Tamme. The draft PGS states that the state guarantees the operation of at least one state secondary school in each county. The entire upper secondary school network does not want to be taken over by the state because some schools do not meet the requirements, some are not dignified, some are not sustainable, etc. Some, however, can offer everything we expect from the state gymnasium. It has already been stated that part of upper secondary schools are not sustainable or meaningful in the opinion of the State. But what if they keep going? Do they also have the hope of public financial assistance and, if so, how much? How much are they financed? This question is being asked with great fear.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U196	I'll start from a distance. We have over 200 high school schools. Maybe there's someone in this hall who says they're a little short or maybe a little short, but most people say there might be a little less of them. It seems to me that the notion that there could be less high school schools is rather consensual. Well, we all know when the election will come. Dealing with all of this in political rhetoric is a sensitive issue. Of course, it's difficult to start pointing fingers, no matter what political level, that you're sustainable and you're not. The issue is not that the state does not want to nationalise all 220 upper secondary schools. But first, it would not make sense. Secondly, most schoolchildren oppose it because they want to continue on their own. Thirdly, the most important thing is to try to solve this problem from where the shoe squeezes most, and to do it step by step to get where we are finally going. I have said this earlier and I am also saying this now: it seems to me that once we arrive at less than 100 upper secondary schools in Estonia, the quality of Estonian secondary education has not got worse, but rather better. But once again, we do not have the need, the political will or the will to break up upper secondary school levels at the moment. Now for those who continue. We have said that the size of a normal gymnasium, the size of a gymnasium that can also offer options in a distributed area (these areas are basically everywhere outside Tartu, Tallinn, Pärnu and Narva), could be 250 students. For 250 students, the state should provide sufficient support for the payment of the salaries of teachers, the Director and the heads of study and any other money that goes with it under the law. What to do with smaller schools? There are probably a number of schools that are exceptional for one reason or another. For example, one upper secondary school must be maintained in Hiiumaa, because in the foreseeable future, the upper secondary school education will not disappear from Hiiumaa. I believe that the state must finance it in such a way that the education it provides is of high quality. It is more difficult in areas where it is possible and possible to do so. Here, I think, it is equally necessary to consider possible exceptions, which means that the state, regardless of the number of students in some respects, will ensure full funding, i.e. it will pay off blanks, as many say. But there are certainly quite a number of places where it is neither practical nor justified to pay for such empty places. Indeed, the question of political choice is whether it would be more honest for the legislator or the executive authority, under the authority of the law, to say to the schoolkeeper that if there are fewer pupils in the school than a certain number, the school does not receive a cent. A lot of people have come to see me and told me to make up their minds. I understand that it is essentially in favour of this decision, but there is also a rather simple way of thinking behind this proposal: there would be a need for a bad person to say the truth to the people, but it does not want to be. Now there is, in fact, a political choice, including here in the Riigikogu, whether we are ready to make this decision or whether it is all happening on its own and local authorities are paying as long as they can, for their part, because there must certainly be no compromises in quality. In some ways, I believe that this choice is currently in the hands of the legislator. I can bring pros and cons. We did not now propose a minimum number of students from which no school funding will be provided, but this figure has been proposed. It's said it could be 100, it's said it could be 60, it's said it could be 200. The figures are different, I do not want to take any position here, but in the course of the debate, these proposals deserve to be considered when they are made.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U197	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U198	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In the draft amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, you have pointed out that the state guarantees the operation of one upper secondary school in each county. To what extent do you intend to take into account regional specificities, such as the preservation of the Estonian upper secondary school in Narva, the maintenance of upper secondary school education along Peipsi or the regional location of Setumaa and children in rural areas, I mean Räpina or Põlva?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U199	Of course, we have to take that into account. I guess that's what I was referring to. Hiiumaa is a good example. You mentioned the Estonian upper secondary school in Narva. This is also a good example. I think that in Narva there must be an Estonian-language gymnasium. Let's take a general example: there must be at least two things in Järvamaa. How do you do that when, in fact, even for one full-scale upper secondary school, there are no more children in a certain perspective? Let's talk about it again, let's think about it. Perhaps, however, some compromises are possible. As far as Järvamaa is concerned, I suggest you think about an integrated middle-level educational institution that could be freely located in two places. Such horizontal integration would also be worth working through in Põlvamaa. We know that the first preference of Põlva County children who study not in Põlva upper secondary school, but in some other places, whether in Kanep, Ahja or Räpina, is not Põlva, but some other city, especially Tartu. How soon can we move on here? I think it's reasonable to set up a state high school in Põlva. Once the state gymnasium is born there, I think there will be a new situation within a year or two. People will then be accustomed to the new arrangement and may be more constructive in discussing future developments. But Räpina is an excellent gardening technique that can also provide general education in cooperation. In such a case, is it reasonable to develop the infrastructure necessary to provide a good state-of-the-art upper secondary school education in two places, or would physics and chemistry classes be left only in Põlva, where Räpina's children can train their practical skills in natural sciences with a certain regularity? This is again a matter of discussion, but I think that the real development regarding state secondary school is moderately positive, the feedback is moderately positive. I dare to recommend optimistic progress here rather than brake-pushing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U200	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This draft law repeals § 341 of the Education Act, which laid down provisions for a national language teacher. On the basis of this section, the Government of the Republic adopted Regulation No 56 on the establishment of state language teacher status and the approval of the procedures for assigning state language teacher status in 1998. The explanatory memorandum states that the provisions of this regulation and of § 341 of the Education Act of the Republic of Estonia are no longer relevant or necessary. There's no explanation. Perhaps you can provide information on why the status of a national language teacher is no longer necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U202	I am trying to answer this question a little poorly prepared. The institution of the national language teacher has not worked very well. You can ask and analyse why not, but if you want to know my personal opinion, I feel that creating such a special status is perhaps not in principle the right way. It would either elevate one of the teachers above the others or give them some special meaning. Is there a need for that? I am more in favour of what we have used and would like to expand the use of: additional support or funding for teachers teaching in Estonian in certain areas. We know that, despite efforts, there are still not enough teachers in several Estonian municipalities and their additional material motivation is probably justified. Perhaps this step is more appropriate to achieve these objectives than legitimising such a formal status or further introducing it at the level of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U203	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! According to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the state is obliged to grant educational support to municipalities and cities each year, according to the number of students, as a special provision from the state budget. How do you intend to clarify the basic school and upper secondary school law so that it is perfectly clear to what extent and for whom the state undertakes to cover the costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U205	The current law provides for whom. It hasn't been changed. When we talk about pay, the resources needed to pay the salaries of directors, teachers and teachers will be covered. If you read this provision again, you will see that this is not a cost recovery, but is called an education grant granted to local authorities to cover these costs. This does not mean that the local authority cannot add funds itself. To what extent are these costs to be covered? This takes place on the same basis as the allocation of salaries in other areas of life. In many areas of life, this regulation is even weaker. For example, doctors are not allocated salaries on the basis of their minimum wage, which is fixed, but on the basis of contracts with the health insurance fund. Similarly, money is allocated to the armed forces or the police. For teachers, the minimum wage laid down at government level is EUR 715 for the current year. We have based it on the book basis that it should be guaranteed to all teachers who are required to complete the curriculum, plus 20% in order for the Director to have the opportunity to differentiate salaries, not to pay everyone the same salary, but to have an average salary 20% above this minimum. The circle of these employees is not to be expanded unless the Riigikogu proposes to join the support specialists. That's what we've been through. The basis for the calculation could continue to be the minimum wage plus 20% for the remuneration of those in the required posts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U206	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U207	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I will continue with this question. In the current PGS, the Government of the Republic sets a minimum wage for teachers, unless (this was the case every year) negotiations between local authorities and employees' representatives produce results. There is now a desire to change this by saying that the parties themselves must agree among themselves. However, for decades there have been more problems here than positive examples. The question here: how can it be ensured that the minimum wage level for teachers in the future is at least at the minimum level and even across Estonia, or is it still a negotiation process?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U208	In time, when it was written into this law, I can imagine, there was a perfectly understandable desire that the various parties could reach a consensus on this matter. However, the situation is, as always, that since rights and obligations are divided unequally between the various parties, the Government of the Republic should have paid the bill. I don't think I'm wrong to say that until now tripartite negotiations have never produced a result. This is for one formal reason: local government associations have not received a mandate or a mandate to represent local authorities. At least in my practice, it has never been born. On this basis, too, I understand that giving a full mandate to the central federations is too much of a risk to more than 200 municipalities and that is why this mechanism is not working. It seems to me that it is not possible to come up with anything that is discoverable here. The minimum wage for teachers, as well as the average wage, are likely to be the object of a political debate in the near future. If it goes well, I hope it goes well, then it can be done without strikes, in a constructive and peaceful atmosphere. But strike as one instrument to stand up for your rights will always remain. I am in favour that, if the changes proposed in this draft PGS and the additional steps that are planned to take are acceptable, we are moving towards the minimum wage for teachers being the average wage for the country. It's not easy, but it's possible. From what I understand, it should more or less satisfy teachers' wishes if the minimum wage for teachers was the average wage of the country and their average wage was 20% higher than the average wage for the country. Once again: if we are able to allocate educational expenditure of the same relative amount from the state budget, as we are doing now, together with the local government, a total of 6.5 to 7%, depending on the year, this can be achieved within this amount of money. But, of course, decisions need to be made, including a whole series of steps that have been proposed here. They are designed to ensure that the minimum wage for teachers is as high as the average wage for the country and that the average wage for teachers is 20% higher than that for teachers. So I'm afraid we won't find any miracle formula for the negotiations. We still have a political process that sets the minimum. It is likely that this minimum will be set by a government with a greater or lesser consensus. Joint efforts must ensure that all this money reaches the teachers and that school arrangements are sustainable so that it is more valuable to the teacher. I'm not gonna talk about this for a long time. After all, a whole series of steps have been taken to ensure that the wage costs of our teachers represent a proportionate share of our school costs as much as in other countries. In other parts, teachers spend 60% of their costs, while we spend 40% of our costs. This is, of course, related to the organisation of the school network and to the uneconomic infrastructure of schools. There are a number of long-term problems that take years to solve, probably not one or two, but rather three, five to eight years. So here, yes, no cardinal innovations are planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U209	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U210	Thank you very much. Changing the PGS could lead to a problem in our school arrangements. We're talking about developmental conversations. If we adopt the amendment to the PGS with this bill, then the parents' obligation to regularly go to these conversations will be removed, and it can also be said that there is no possibility of these conversations. It turns out that many organisations, students', parents' and also teachers' organisations, are not in favour of regular development discussions disappearing. What, though, caused the 340 bill to lose them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U211	I will read to you what we have here: 'In order to support the development of a student, regular development interviews are organised at school with his or her parent in the case of a student with reduced capacity. In addition, the school organises a development interview with the student when the parent applies for it. On the basis of the development interview, further learning and development goals of the student will be agreed. " The question you asked was like a deadlock, that you could no longer arrange and be canceled. No, it's not! What are we gonna change? What does it say now? 'In order to support student development, at least once during the academic year, a development interview will be held with him on the basis of which further learning and development goals will be agreed. The student, the head of the class and, in the case of a student with limited capacity, the parent participates in the development interview. If the school hasn't gotten... ' A relatively bureaucratic regulation follows. What does that mean? This means that the school is currently obliged to conduct a conversation with all students once a year. Its work is relatively large. If you ask people, you will learn (also, based on your practice, you can easily reach this conclusion) that there are probably children at school and there may be quite a lot of people with whom it would be reasonable to have a development interview more often than once a year and there are a number of children for whom it is sufficient to have this conversation once in a school year. Perhaps there are situations where there is no need to talk to a child at all if the format of the development interview is not meaningful or reasonable for one reason or another. What is the point of this change? Based on practice, it can be said that in many schools these interviews are only formally written; they are simply formalised. When we ask about these conversations at school, they say that everyone has been interviewed. But what was really discussed was how much time there was for each conversation and what results they gave, it stays in second place. Yes, of course, development conversations are necessary, there is no doubt about that. Developmental discussions must be held when the school considers it necessary, and there must be such a procedure in the school. A developmental interview is mandatory for the school if it is requested by the parent. But from now on, there is no formal annual obligation for all students to pass through this machine. The school itself establishes a procedure for development discussions, monitors whether this procedure works and whether the needs of those who need a development interview have been met. Bureaucracy should be reduced and substantive functioning sought to improve. That's the idea. No one has a problem with the development conversation; a well-functioning development conversation is a necessary instrument. There's no need to scare people with the apocalyptic prophecies that you can't and everything will disappear. There's no such thing. The Ministry of Education also employs a few responsible people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U212	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U213	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I come back to the subject of children with special educational needs. This year, the government allocated EUR 3.3 million to schoolteachers for the remuneration of support specialists. On the other hand, you said that there could be a national support system through county centres. At the same time, there are schools where the number of children with special educational needs is so high that there should definitely be their support specialists there. If this county centre is funded by the state, will the school's own specialists be funded by the school manager or what should this system look like? Or is everyone going to state funding? In the light of this year's financial allocation, EUR 3.3 million, is a similar bonus expected in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U214	I would like to remind you once again: it is always useful to read the source before you say anything. At present, the basic school and upper secondary school law could be the primary source. If you read this law, you will see that it states very clearly who will cover these costs. These costs will be borne by the school manager: if it is a public school, these costs will be borne by the state, if it is a local government school, then these costs will be covered by the local government, if it is a private school, then these costs will be covered by the private school manager. There's no double-thinking here. What has happened, and what has caused such confusion? The big mess is because it was created. A great deal of confusion was created by my better understanding in 2010, when the previous amendments to the PGS were adopted. At that time, it laid down a type of support specialist such as a social pedagogue. In the past, support specialists included logos, school psychologists, assistant teachers, teachers, or whatever these names are. Then there came a social pedagogy. There was no financial cover or even a duty on the part of the state to fund it, as I better recall. It was simply an additional service, but the funding was left open. The schoolteachers, including local authorities, then rightly raised the alarm that, how so, there is an additional obligation, but there is no money. Then, I get it, they said word of mouth to take that money at the expense. What's a limp? Liberty is one of the bureaucratic pits that the Ministry of Finance has raised education support for schools. In fact, 12,000 teachers worked in schools, but the Ministry of Finance model distributed money to 14000. That's when they said you'd put social educators on the paycheck for these 2,000 calculated teachers. Some did, some didn't do how nobody did. There was such an opaque, vague situation that I do not think can and must be satisfied with. The Ministry of Education and Research wants to find out about this. Let's find out who's paying. If the state pays, we'll find the money and pay it. If the state does not pay but the local government pays, the local government pays. What can be done in 2013 to reorganize the work of support specialists? I have proposed that, as long as the amendments to the PGS have not been adopted and there is a legal uncertainty, this transition could be supported once and for all by last year's residues, distributed to local authorities, in order to bring the remuneration of support specialists into line with the law. If the amendments to the PGS are not adopted and the addition does not come in, then the old law must be applied, which is the responsibility of the local authorities as of next year, plus the support structure of the state. If this law is to be amended, local authorities will probably have to be given public support. In this case, of course, the national support structure will be cancelled, because there will be no money for that, as I understand it, and the local authorities will be able to receive the money as a direct grant. That's how it's designed. But once again: this year's money is a one-off amount to ensure the changeover, it is not meant to remain permanently in the 'country' base commitments. This is a one-year source of unused amounts from the 2012 state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U215	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U216	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. According to the draft law, investment grants for schools will also disappear. I say that local authorities have a legitimate expectation that the investment aid will remain, because they have taken out the loan and repaired the school building in the hope that they will continue to receive money and thus cover the bank loan. That's one side of it. The other half is delightful: the EUR 250 million in which these schools will be repaired is quite a large amount of money. But I fear that these objects will become political, and it may happen that houses that will not be needed in the future will be built again. In my home country, there is an example where a school house was built on the basis of a party decision, which was four million euros, but 19 children were born in that municipality last year. How can such political foolishness be avoided?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U217	Thank you. How Can I Avoid Political Foolishness? Through the elections, I've heard. I don't have any more good recipes. But with the election, we're gonna fix the old fools, and then we're gonna make new ones. So it's still a mess. I do not know if you agree with me or do not agree with me, but if we distribute money for investment to almost 200 municipalities who run schools, then my better understanding would have had to be the probability that political, not apolitical, investment decisions will be made significantly higher than when there is a single public investment programme, as it once was, which is being considered and under which political risks are being minimised. It seems to me that the public investment programme is more immune to political risks than the local government programmes. That's one. Secondly, if the local government gets the investment money, it's gonna make the money suck. Even if there aren't any kids there. The money can be spent. It seems to me that a national programme would be more sensible for a balanced and systematic development of the school network. You had a legitimate remark that some local authorities have made investments, taken loans and hoped to delete it through public support. This legitimate expectation exists, although I think that at least lawyers would be willing to argue for a good fee for years about how justified that expectation is and how justified it is. But on the substance side, there's a solution here. This is because if the local authority does not wish to participate in the public education investment programme, it will continue to receive this support, and if it wants to participate, it will lose this support, but it will be entitled to participate in this national programme. It's kind of a choice. I guess it's a little hard for a lot of people, but at least it's better than nothing. That way, I hope, will be able to remove this legitimate expectation from the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U218	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U219	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The new draft of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act abolishes investment support for local government schools. How must the local authorities who listened to Res Publica's call to renovate schools through the RKAS a few years ago and believed that it would be financed through an ever-increasing investment component?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U220	I would encourage these local authorities to continue along the chosen path.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U221	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U222	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'll take your example. You said it was completely real that there would be a state gymnasium in Põlva County. If upper secondary school classes disappear from Värska and Räpina, how are public transport organised, so that children from the farthest corners of the county can reach an hour in time when someone from Setumaa from behind Värska wants to go to Põlva for upper secondary school?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U223	Public transport is organised by county governments and coordinated by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. I've contacted the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications about school transport and asked them to investigate how this is happening in the counties. I have been quite unanimous about the fact that regional public transport routes are being set up quite well in view of the needs of the educational network. It works, it's a question of how well or not. Vocational training establishments are a good example of this. We have managed to ensure that the children of vocational education and training institutions reach school, either they travel to school and home every day or they live in a student home. I don't see any reason why this should be arranged differently in high school. This is done every year on the basis of the school network and the number of local government schools. These lines have been built up and closed in the past. These developments will be taken into account in the planning of the transport network, on this basis. If, on the basis of previous questions, I have wondered whether it would be reasonable to make two national transport systems in Estonia, one would be public transport subsidised nationally and, in addition, school transport, I have not been told on any occasion that it would be reasonable to make parallel structures so that the school transport system would be separate from the national subsidised transport system. I see this, above all, as a practical issue and a problem that needs to be resolved at a practical level, if necessary by increasing the dose that goes on the regional routes. When deciding whether more routes are needed or whether higher density is needed on routes, the needs of the educational network should certainly be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U224	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U225	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I'm going to ask you one more time about HEV children. You said we have about 4,000 HEV children who need a special environment. It is true that part of the children of HEV are those who can be taught in a normal class, but some need either a special class or a special school. You also said that special schools are certainly a measure here. Do you think the current network of special schools will satisfy the need we have in this area? It is certainly possible to create special classes, but sometimes a child needs to be physically moved to a completely different place so that he or she can get back on track. Is the network of special schools sufficient now, or should it be somehow different?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U226	There is no black and white answer, no yes or no answer. Speaking of quantity, we have quite a lot of special schools, almost 40, but there are serious problems of quality, in many ways. Firstly, infrastructure problems. These schools are mostly located in quite demolished buildings and not in buildings built for this purpose. The reconstruction of all of them is basically possible, but if all the existing schools are put in place, it will take ten years, not two years, to repeat them. The second problem concerns their functionality. They have been developed in the past in rather different socio-economic conditions, but the socio-economic structure of society (and the needs of children with special educational needs from there) has changed. Let's just say that, given the development of the medical system, children with somatic diseases no longer need these conditions as they did 30 years ago. But new behavioral and psychic problems have come to mind. The structure does not meet the changed conditions. So we have to make structural adjustments. Structural reforms also concern the fact that, for historical reasons, schools for children with special educational needs are in the hands of both the state and municipal authorities. There is no understandable reason here why some of them are in the hands of the state, but some are in the hands of the municipality. There are costs involved. There's been a huge amount of debate here who should be doing what. According to current perceptions, we think that there could be fewer places for these schools to operate, because part of 40 schools are probably not sustainable. You shouldn't start freaking out that special schools are being shut down and these kids are going to regular school again. The number of children as a whole has decreased and the number of children with special educational needs or those belonging to group F2 has also decreased. There's just less of them, so we're gonna need less schools. That's the main reason. The second reason is that the country should take on the most difficult cases across Estonia or separately in Northern and Southern Estonia. The country should be responsible for the most serious cases. The next level would be the responsibility of the local government, the state would support it, but the school should be the local government. Municipal schools, where there are just few classes for these children, would, of course, remain. When it comes to funding, I dare say, as I said before, that one F-child will have 2.5 to 3 times more money going through the middle. There is no need to save on this, but it is quite a necessity to make more effective use of this money for the child. We sometimes pay for infrastructure and an unfunctional environment, and there is no money left for educational content. That's where the savings point is! Such structural reforms are certainly needed for children with special educational needs. But I will say once again: the great proportions and sums of money will not change in any cardinal way to the detriment or advantage of anyone. Rather, the aid must be better brought to the hands of the real needy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U227	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U228	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Everything in this world has some kind of financial value. Yes, it is said that education is invaluable, but the product of the 'education system' certainly also has the financial value that wise people working under you have calculated, I think. Since the activities financed by society must be cost-effective, it is likely that expenditure on the education system will also be in some way correlated with the value of education. With regard to the modernisation of the educational system, is any correction coefficient taken into account, which takes into account the outflow of the product of the education system from Estonia, i.e. that the young people leave Estonia to plant cabbages in Australia, who are to be a Pakistani man in the Netherlands, and in any case enrich the ethnic culture of distant countries for the money of the Estonian taxpayer? Have these financial corrections been taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U229	When you started the question, I felt that we were different from the weather on one issue. Because everything has a financial dimension, it comes as a surprise to me. It's hard to share that view. But now that people are going abroad, there is some kind of financial dimension that should be taken into account. I don't know how to put it in any rational form. I take the view (maybe even from the constitution) that people have the right to education. We provide education for the future generation to continue. I cannot imagine how we could start providing education selectively: for those who want to leave, do not give it at all, or sell it to them. It's hard for me to understand. I find it difficult to understand even such a proposal, which has been quite a lot made, but what if you think about it to the end is quite questionable: if we give our children a good education, such as a medical degree, and they leave Estonia, they should pay for the cost of education. We have fought (who, how and on which side, has a separate question) for the freedom to leave Estonia and the right to return to Estonia. Putting on some kind of educational constraint and imposing educational coercion, I fear that this is not the solution. I understand the point, of course. After all, we are all interested in making progress in life, and our children and grandchildren would live and be as much as possible in Estonia if you wish, but I do not regard it as reasonable from a weather point of view to regulate it with educational barriers or asking for money for education. That's not the solution, that's the problem. I fear that this problem may also be so serious that if we introduce such a rule, people will leave this place before they begin their education.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U230	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U231	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The draft law replaces the term 'pedagog' with 'teacher' in all the laws that this bill amends. The amendment is claimed to be necessary in order to make it clear in concrete terms who will receive one or the other benefit or who will have to fulfil one or the other obligation. At the same time, there is a growing fear in schools that, through such a small clarification, the state actually wants to reduce the funding of school staff. How do you explain why the term 'pedagog' needs to be replaced by 'teacher'?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U232	Thank you. I don't know if this explanation is simple, but at least it makes sense. When you read a valid PGS, you will see that the term 'pedagog' occurs there in two ways. The term 'pedagog' is sometimes used as a general term, i.e. in a broad sense. Teachers are directors, lecturers, teachers and other persons involved in education and training. As you can see, the concept of a teacher has been used here in a broader sense than only in the sense of a teacher. Teachers are part of the educators; they are a subset of educators. No one intends to replace or change this concept of a teacher in any way. Once again, no one plans to replace this general term, which includes all the categories of workers mentioned above, but it does indeed disappear in the sense of legal or such legal definition, because it is empty of substance. There is no way that this law can be incorporated into this law. In a broad sense, teachers are not subject to any rights or obligations under this law. It is therefore not appropriate to use such a legal definition of a teacher in a broad sense. It's gonna go away. In another place, the teacher's word has been used as a synonym for 'teacher'. In this case, replacing the word 'pedagog' with 'teacher' simply increases the clarity of thought. The teacher is the one who stands in front of the class and gives the class how well to explain. If the teacher does not give lessons, sits in the principal's office or prepares a curriculum in the teachers' room, he may not be a teacher, but he may be a person directly involved in education and education, or a teacher in a broad sense. That's the logic. The confusion with the concept of teacher and teacher runs through all the laws of education and has caused quite a lot of problems so far. It's just a explaining step. I believe that this will make this law easier to understand in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U233	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U234	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. I'm asking about the money. The state has promised to maintain state secondary schools and has also promised 15% participation in investments concerning these state secondary schools. What will the Ministry find these funds for the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U235	The state budget receives funds from the revenue of the state budget. Where do these revenues come from? Their sources are taxes and probably future EU Structural Funds grants. Education has a pretty good perspective there. Exactly how much money comes from there, I cannot say, but in this way, these costs are to be covered. We've also analyzed the cost. By doing so, the state is taking a pretty big responsibility away from the local authorities. We have assessed the total amount of additional national commitments. Let's imagine that sometime in the distant future, in some year X has all upper secondary schools in state secondary schools. Local authorities would then maintain a very large line at current prices of around EUR 20 million, with additional commitments of around EUR 8 million for the country. Why is there a big difference? This difference arises from the effect of scale. Larger upper secondary schools are simply cheaper to keep, both in terms of overheads and running costs, including personnel costs. Here comes the economics, but the country will certainly be transferred from local governments and the local authorities will be free of this money. I hope it will be used to cover other educational costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U236	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U237	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! My questions are much simpler. I'm from the country myself, and I remember the late 1970s when 20 school buses dragged my beloved country school students. Now we optimize the school system, some schools remain in the local government, some belong to the state, but we promise that all students will be able to get home from the school and also to go to the circles of interest. Is all the transport logistics we need to take into account when optimizing the school system still thought out and calculated so that it can work equally everywhere and that children can really move?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U238	I was talking about school transport. Is this all thought out? Well, that depends on how long it takes to think about it. In order to think about it to the very end, there should be a plan on the table that lists the upper secondary schools that will eventually remain. It'll take a good couple of years, ten years at least. But some modelling has been asked to be done on the basis of different counties, especially Viljandi County. For your information, if all children in Viljandi County went to the nearest gymnasium, the total number of children in Viljandi County would be one third shorter than it is now. Many children in Viljandimaa already attend some distant schools, not the nearest one. If you make such a model as it is likely to be in the near future that Viljandi has a gymnasium, there is a gymnasium in the north and two gymnasiums in the south, and if children were to attend the nearest gymnasium, their school course would be 10% shorter than today. If there was a single upper secondary school in Viljandi, the school path of these children would be statistically and on average about 15% longer (I don't quite remember). This shows that there are really no problems with the organisation of transport. These problems relate to specific routes and exit times, which, as I said, should be tackled in cooperation with rural governments in coordination with the MKM. That is the general answer. But, of course, we've been thinking about it, and we're worried about it. The most worrying work was done when we were reforming vocational schools. We had 100 vocational schools, now it's 30. The children, however, arrive at vocational schools. This could work better, but let's just say that there is no very big problem because of the transport barrier. I do not think that this basically prevents the development of major county secondary schools, especially when it is evolutionary, as is currently planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U239	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U240	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Firstly, I cannot agree with your praise about the reform of upper secondary school in Viljandi County. There are a lot of problems with that that you didn't mention. As far as money is concerned, I think you are a little light-handed about it too: constantly missing and missing, but then suddenly over. Can you confirm that the resources intended to support state secondary schools in the future do not come from the salaries of teachers or from local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U241	I can't imagine how this could come from a teacher's salary. As far as local authorities are concerned, please refer to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. It has been maintained that if a child goes to a neighbouring upper secondary school, he or she should be given a bounty if he or she goes to a state secondary school or vocational school, he or she should not be given a bounty. This regulation is not to be amended. In this sense, there will be no obligation on local authorities. If the local government no longer has to maintain upper secondary school, it may be more likely to have savings. The question is, of course, that there are empty rooms in the schoolhouse. If there is a need to move to a smaller house, there will certainly be transitional costs, but this is, to a large extent, inevitable. If children are still three times less in the municipality than before, then something must be done whether or not state secondary schools exist or do not exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U242	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U243	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The draft amends once again the procedure for determining the place of residence school. This time, I have come to understand that the change is that we no longer have to take into account the learning of our brothers and sisters at the same school. This can only be taken into account if all other students in the region have access to study places. But suppose there's a big family with four or five kids, three of them study in one school, then the family moves, and the fourth child has to go to another school. I imagine that this family may have quite a lot of problems in this regard, and large families may therefore feel a lot of resentment. How do you explain that it is no longer necessary to take into account the learning of other children in the family at the same school?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U244	We're talking about middle school first. I imagine that due to the proposed regulation, a problem could arise when children have different places of residence. If they have the same place of residence, all children must have a place of study in the school of their place of residence. I imagine that if the child is studying in second grade and the family moves from Tartu to Tallinn, then the second grade student, not to mention the first grade student, has the right to a place of study in the school of their place of residence. I can't imagine how this problem you mentioned might arise, to be quite honest. The problem we are trying to solve is that a person lives in a school house over a fence, looking through the school window, but he is told that his local school is in Lasnamägi instead of being in Nõmme. Then there's a problem. But if the official residence is also the actual residence, if all the children of the family live in this place and go to the nearest school, then I don't understand what this big problem should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U245	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U246	Thank you. Good waitress! This autumn, Haapsalu opens its doors to a new state gymnasium, which is the second state gymnasium already operating in Läänemaa. PGS is inspired to have at least one state gymnasium in each county. In this context, how do you feel about the future that awaits the West? Could both state secondary schools remain active from your point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U247	Such a question has, of course, jumped into the head of ministerial staff, including me. We have no plan to do in this case. Noaroots has the capacity, infrastructure and certain living conditions. They also provide services to students from outside the Läänemaa. Of course, there is speculation as to whether it would be more sensible to act together than separately, but at the moment I do not want to do so very much. Let us see what developments will be after Haapsalu High School starts, what decisions parents and students make, and if it makes sense to make a decision based on this information, we will come back to this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U248	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U249	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm gonna ask you a little military question on the basis that you've also been Secretary of Defense. The Defence Forces fear that wage reform, based on which wages are uniform and any premiums have been zeroed, will lead to a loss of income. I read here that the same thing is going to happen to teachers: the head of the division, or the head of the school, is going to decide on everyone's qualitative skills. Aren't you afraid that this may in a way lead to some teachers' income being reduced due to the discretion of the director? This, in turn, may lead to a certain dedovschina: if a person, for example, does not like the director, the director's authority over him will still become too great. Is our society ready for employment relationships, as they say, where one individual has the power of decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U250	I have already tried to answer this question with strength. I do not, in principle, share the view that the only way to organise the school in any way reasonably is to make it so rigid with bureaucratic ties that no one can make a decision for themselves, because, for God's sake, when he starts to decide, he will do the wrong thing. For example, it is believed that if we give the Director the right to negotiate and agree on a salary, he will start working against the interests of the school as an institution and will start making voluntaristic decisions that could adversely affect this school, not to mention human relations in this school collective. However, it should be taken into account that thousands, even tens of thousands, of organisations and sub-units are currently operating on the basis of such a wage policy. You can mention institutions closer to schools if you want, kindergartens, but also universities, not to mention the public sector at all, the private sector. Our fear of abuse by the headmasters is, in my opinion, unfounded. I don't think there's any reason for that. Of course, no one can rule out subjective and unjustified decisions. There is indeed such a risk, too, but in order to prevent it from being tied up in a way that would not, in my opinion, make the school a dynamic, open and evolutionary institution. All these management instruments must be made available to the school manager so that he or she can achieve the objectives of his or her institution. These objectives are not sucked out of the pen, but are linked to a certain management culture and development. I think that the time for such hierarchical, bureaucratic, mechanical structures is also around education. The military, true, is an even more hierarchical and historically more rigid system. Is that reasonable or not? If you look at where all the countries that have transferred to the professional army are moving, you will see a much more flexible wage arrangement, which is also justified. I think these fears may not be baseless, but I still feel that a lot of people have over-enhanced them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U251	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U252	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I will go to a subject that we have not yet addressed today, at least not for a very long time. It's teaching literature. We dealt with it briefly, but I am now bringing in the types of teaching literature that the Minister of Education and Research will establish. In the future, the minimum need for teaching literature should be listed as a list by classes and subjects. By doing so, the State undertakes a minimum list. Thus, on the basis of the draft, the State will in future be obliged to ensure that the schools are satisfied with the minimum need for which the State provides financial support for the acquisition of teaching literature. The coordination circle raised a very clear question as to how the state intends to ensure that schools can acquire teaching literature for a variety of selective courses, especially given the abundance of electives in upper secondary schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U253	Thank you. After all, it is a question of rationality. At the moment, we have a situation where the state does not intervene at all. I, too, have been asked in this Chamber why I don't think there's a math textbook for class IX. I say, maybe by overdoing it a little, it's none of my business, it's a market and a teacher thing. With this regulation, we have tried to alleviate this problem and say that this is not the way the state can say that it is none of its business. There must be some minimum, the abbot must still have Estonian children. I don't think we're all ready to move online yet. I'd like an abitas, a math textbook, too, but whether we want a Greek mythology textbook for high school or not, here I'm starting to doubt. Deciding on the minimum list is one of the considerations. We need to see where we are, what should literally be the teaching tools or textbooks prepared for the school, which is the minimum package. You can learn from anywhere: newspaper, fiction, reference work, workbooks. You can study without any teaching literature at all. I remember my schoolteacher who said we had nothing to do with the textbook, we're just learning. That freedom must remain with the teacher. Now for financial security. It's the same thing. We're gradually increasing that amount, but the book prices are also rising. If it is very, very technically or cost-based to determine how much this money must be, then it is not a very productive course. This amount must be increased along with the increase in inflation and the progress of life, but that the state buys a minimum set, pays for it and sends it to school, it is not reasonable, because we do not want to give up the freedom of the teacher. Once the minimum list is approved (there is an aabit and a mathematics textbook for class IX), but the teacher is convinced that he can achieve his goals and meet the needs of the class in any other way, we will not oblige him to obtain the textbooks that are on the minimum list. We know that list exists. The state will ensure that these educational resources are in place, but schools should remain free to use something else as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U254	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U255	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'll come back to the one before last. Aivar Riisalu was concerned that if all decision-making is given to one person, the director, it could lead to a great deal of subjectivity. I'm not afraid the directors are somehow abusing their power, but the director may have to choose a cheaper teacher, not a better teacher, because he lacks money. Looking at the bill, you can see that this is a completely new approach. It is said that a teacher simply needs higher education, it can be any higher education, and it is up to the Director to evaluate the teacher's professional mastery and also to motivate him. Is that the idea of a bill written in order to be able to hire a teacher who is not so experienced as this, or a person who was not thinking about teaching at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U256	This is an important regulation. I don't know how much you know about a project or a program like Youth School. What does "young people to school" mean? This means that if young people who have completed higher education in a particular field are engineers or agronomists, doctors or lawyers, they have a desire and a desire to try teaching, a certain structure and a learning opportunity has been created so that they can work as teachers at school without having to obtain higher education in teaching. This project has given a great deal of positive feedback, from children, schools, teachers and also from the Ministry. It is such an approach that the opportunity to hold a teaching profession is not only obtained through formal qualifications, but also through a professional and professional qualifications framework, i.e. a person must have a formal level of education, i.e. higher education and professional qualifications. This is a fixed-term occupation in the sense that if a person does not have a teacher's qualification, his contract is fixed-term. If he passes the examination, he can continue with an open-ended contract of employment. It's one step to open up the teacher's professorship a little bit, so it's not so strongly cunt-centric. In particular, people who are in their late 20s or early 30s and wish to try teaching positions are often not motivated enough to go to Tallinn University and start learning pedagogical higher education from the first course. It's just too much for them. That is why such an open opportunity has been created. I would stress that this option is primarily intended for us to move towards professional and professional competence in education as a whole from formal educational and professional qualifications. Whether a teacher should have a higher education education or not is not only a formal shift. No, a person must prove that he or she has not only professional competence but also professional competence. This paradigm shift is as important, in my opinion, as it is that we make this profession more open. We allow more people to test us. Not everyone stays in this profession, many young people do not stay in school, but they have anyway refreshed the Estonian faculty. I think opening this channel is a sensible step in a reasonable direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U257	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U258	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I now come to a relatively specific subject, namely, the elementary school. If you look at the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, you can see that you have decided to repeal the uniform school form in which the general school and the institution of interest are acting as a single institution. You probably know that there are two such schools in Estonia today, one in Tallinn and the other in Saaremaa. The reason for this amendment is that recreational activities, as such, will continue to be offered at general education schools, but that general education schools should in future mainly carry out their main activities, offering formal education. At the same time, in schools where these two things are combined, this has been done precisely so that, for example, the music school and the comprehensive school providing formal education can integrate themselves flexibly in everyday life. Why has it been decided to change that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U259	As far as I can tell (it seems to me that I am not very wrong), the main reason is as follows. I don't quite understand what added value this compound institution has. Why couldn't it be a university education institution that also provides recreational education as a function of this institution? It doesn't necessarily have to be like a milking tractor. It may be simply an institution which is also entitled to provide an education of interest and which does so without the status of a formal unitary institution. That's how I get it. This, in my opinion, simply reduces red tape. In my opinion, it does not give rise to any special rights, to any additional funding which could justify that it is so bureaucraticly regulated separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U260	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U261	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister, thank you very much. I was away from the hall for a while. I hope I don't repeat some of the previous questions now. It has been pointed out here on several occasions that the draft law gives the schoolmaster a greater right to decide on the pay of teachers. At the same time, it is clear from the draft that the role of the board of trustees in organising school life will increase. This role of the board also grows into a 'right' and a duty to give an opinion on the principles of the school's wage organisation. Family-school cooperation always brings success to the child. Would you like to comment a little more on the rights of the board of trustees in relation to the salary arrangements?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U262	Thank you. This regulation has been introduced partly or mainly for the same reason that has been repeatedly expressed here. If the salary arrangement falls within the sole competence of the Director and has no obligation to involve other stakeholders, abuse may be unacceptable. In order to avoid this, there is a collective body such as a body of care, where both the schoolteacher and the parents are represented. What do you call it? Perhaps a stakeholder or a representative body of stakeholders, in whose interest it should be in order to ensure that wage arrangements are transparent and fair. It's all about indirect supervision. If there has been some approval, but there is a difference in real life, then it is appropriate and possible to raise the question of whether the wage arrangement complies with the arrangements submitted to the board of trustees. That's the reason. I can't imagine being a better idea. The board of trustees, I believe, is part of the supervisory function, which could be interested in by a number of interest groups. That is why this provision has been included.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U263	Thank you very much. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U264	Dear schoolboy! The question is very simple, it concerns the digital study literature portal. The fact that this application is a little delayed is, in my opinion, very reasonable, because there are really some questionable issues. But I'm asking about the main thing. Will the rights of textbook authors be protected in the future for the Digital Literature Portal? I mean, those who write textbooks.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U265	Thank you. There's a whole bunch of questions, one's specifically asked, the other's by default somewhere out there. As long as copyrights are protected in the Republic of Estonia, they must also be protected on this portal, and not only copyright, but also property rights related to this text. I very much hope that it will be easier to monitor the authenticity and authorship of the author's work. The issue of property rights can be more complex. Publishers, I know, have expressed a certain scepticism on this issue: 'How so? We want to sell books, but you almost tell me to hang these files online! So who's gonna buy those paper books more when the files are on the Internet? 'This may be a legal dispute, but the state or the public sector, as a buyer, has the right to buy a hundred books only on condition that they give him PDF files and allow him to hang them. It's the seller's choice: if he wants to sell, he sells, if he doesn't, he doesn't sell. Such an offer is necessary, reasonable and possible. You can argue here in legal terms. The eLearning Tools Portal could not ideally be called a download site for PDF files. Of course, we would need interactive e-learning tools that would use the functionality of all technology, but let us not make unnecessary illusions. The cost of developing a modern, interactive, pedagogically, professionally and in every sense balanced learning tool is so high that you have to think three times before you set up as a state to cover all the educational resources. I see more of an evolving cooperation here with larger producers, why not also with Estonian producers in some narrow niche, but as a whole, it is supposed to be a global cooperation. I'm convinced there's gonna be a breakthrough in the next few decades. This is certainly not going to be a narrow national depositary, from which we can get everything we need. This must all come in cooperation with external partners. Language issues, authorship issues and monetary issues must be resolved. But there's gotta be some kind of movement in that direction, or we're just gonna miss the train. Even in PDF files, such a depositary is better than nothing. Let it go, no one's getting involved with those files. There are certainly people who, instead of books, carry a tablet with them at school, which probably at some point becomes easier, more functional, and probably more affordable, in view of general developments.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U266	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U267	Mr President, thank you. Minister, thank you very much. My question is a little more philosophical. If I remember correctly, a Chinese proverb says that if you see life in a ten-year perspective, plant a tree, if it's a hundred years term, then teach and give good schooling to your children. What do you think is the biggest victory in 25 or 30 years for the generation that learns and goes to school under this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U268	Here comes the almost final comment. I don't know what impressions you've had lately from school when you've seen what's going on there or what's not going on there or what's going on there, and how much you've talked to young people or teachers about what's going on in schools and what's not going on there. But I have done so for both my office and my family, and I have tried to put some reasonable thoughts together. In my introductory speech, I said that I think the gap between real life and school life is growing. School's too closed up. This life, which is changing, carries a variety of questions and events, is unacceptably few in school. How do you get that life there? Life gets there in such a way that doors and windows need to be opened, people need to be opened. The problems of real life must be brought to school, and anything that hinders it should be removed. What hinders free communication and free life, as elsewhere is? It is mostly hindered by unsolicited thought patterns, established rules, and learned behavior patterns. My deep conviction is that one of these obstacles is the mentality of giving an hour. The other thing is that the teaching profession is closed, a low-mobility profession. Teachers could move more, I mean professionally. People should be able to become teachers, leave the teaching profession and come back to school when they need to. If this doesn't happen, it's very hard to imagine a school opening. I'm not going to talk about curricula right now, because it's a longer topic on its own. In the morning, the scientist discovers something, and in the evening, it's already put into the program. What are these poor kids supposed to do with this? In the future, I would like young people to feel their own development environment in school more alive, closer to life. Then they want to go to school and be there. There must be no contrast in the sense of learning one thing in school, but somewhere on the street, on the Internet and at home there is something else, and problems and questions are different. The student asks real, important questions, but at school they ask him the same thing they asked 30 years ago. That's the kind of change I'd like to see, but this PGS can't do all that. There's a lot to do here. But if the teacher and the central person responsible are at the heart of this work, the headmaster, then the change in the role of these people, their shifting and valorisation, their involvement, ultimately depends on success. That is why the teacher and the director's institution have started. The school network is a wider topic of school organisation. I want to thank all those who have read their two questions properly, as well as those who have come constructively with the dialogue. I consider this debate to be very constructive.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U269	Thank you very much, Minister. Two hours and 40 minutes, and this round of questions and answers is over. Now I am pleased to invite the Chair of the Committee on Culture, Urmas Klaas, as a co-presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U270	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The Committee on Culture is the lead committee for this draft. For the first time in the meeting of the Committee on Culture, we addressed the principles of modernising the educational organisation in the form of a parliamentary hearing on 10 September last year, when the draft did not yet exist, but Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, and Chancellor Janar Holm, Ministry of Education and Research, explained these principles to us. On 17 December last year, the Commission appointed a representative of the Commission, who is here the speaker, to act as rapporteur for the basic school and upper secondary school law and, in connection with it, for the amendment of other laws. On 17 January, Minister Jaak Aaviksoo presented this draft to the Commission. On 29 January s. A first major stakeholder hearing took place in the Committee on Culture. Toomas Kruusimägi, Chairman of the Association of School Leaders, Margit Timakov and Peeter-Eerik Ots were present, Reemo Voltri, Chairman of the Board of Educational Staff, and Vaike Parkel, Legal Secretary, and Aivar Haller, Member of the Board of Parents' Association. The board members of the Association of Estonian Private General Education Schools Ahto Orav and Anne Nõgu, Vello Jõgisoo, Deputy Chairman of the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, Jüri Võigemast, Managing Director of the Association of Estonian Cities, Liina Hirv, Chairman of the Board of the Association of Estonian Students Association, Meelis Autumn, Member of the Board of the Association of Free Waldorf schools and kindergartens, and Head of Development of the Tartu Waldorf Gymnasium were also present. That was the first major hearing. I deliberately read everything involved to give you an idea of how serious this debate was. At this meeting of the Commission, on 29 January 2013, we decided to send the draft to first reading today, on 20 February. The decision was consensual. But we had an argument about what to do with this draft today in plenary. There were two proposals: one was to close the first reading and the other was to reject the draft at first reading. I put the proposals to the vote in the order of their receipt. The proposal to terminate the first reading (by 5 votes to 2 with 2 abstentions) was supported. So this is the Commission's proposal. Today, the Commission decided that the deadline for tabling amendments would be s. March 15th. It is a long time, so everyone should be able to table their proposals. Yesterday, on 19 February, a first major substantive hearing took place in the Commission. One subject was thoroughly addressed. We have agreed in the Commission that we will proceed by dividing the draft into thematic blocks and addressing these blocks in depth, in a variety of ways, with the participation of stakeholders and researchers. Yesterday, on 19 February, we discussed in more detail the separation between comprehensive school and upper secondary school and the nature of the different types of schools, their different aspects. Both representatives of "full cycle schools" and representatives of clean upper secondary schools were represented. The association of school leaders was represented by Toomas Kruusimägi, Director of the English College of Tallinn, and Aivar Saarela, Director of the Avinurme Gymnasium. Helmer Jõgi, Director of the Tartu Jaan Poska Gymnasium, spoke about the activities of the pure gymnasium. Jüri Võigemast, Managing Director of the Estonian Association of Cities, Vello Jõgisoo, Vice-President of the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, Professor Aaro Toomela of Tallinn University, and Kalle Küttt, Deputy Chancellor of General and Vocational Education at the Ministry of Education and Research. The debate was very thorough. The Commission has received a large number of written submissions. All of them are off the Commission's website. The Secretariat of the Committee on Culture already organised these amendments on a subject-by-case basis before the deadline for the submission of amendments was announced. There are 84 proposals in total, and all of them, of course, we take serious account of them. The Minister of Education answered questions for nearly three hours. I kept following very closely whether my colleagues with their questions and the Minister with his answers broadly covered these 84 questions or proposals. In general, they are covered. I do not consider it important or even necessary to go over all these issues again, because they are all really covered. All topics have been reflected today in the Minister's speech and in the round of questions and answers, either thoroughly or less thoroughly. Perhaps one of the issues that should be marked is that we are also changing the work of pre-school institutions with the draft. These provisions were not discussed here today. One concern is that there is no obligation to guarantee the post of logo beet. This was not discussed today, but I believe that we will also reflect this in future negotiations. So I will not refer any more of these proposals and views, and I will limit myself to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U271	Any questions for the co-rapporteur? There are no questions for the co-rapporteur. Thank you very much, Urmas Glass! Now let's go to the negotiations. Please, on behalf of the Central Party Group of Mailis Reps. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U272	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister and ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Today we are discussing quite thoroughly the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. In addition, a number of changes are made to the pre-school Children's Institution Act, the Education Act of the Republic of Estonia and other laws. If I may, I will summarise the concerns of the Centre Party Group, which are already due to the opinions and letters referred to by the chairman of the committee, as well as meetings with stakeholders. The first round of questions is for students with special needs. When we listened to the Minister today, there was a very frequent feeling that the Minister of Education and Science and the draft did not talk about the same things. The Minister is convinced that children with special needs will continue to be dealt with, the funding will remain stable, and that it is not true that the education of children with special needs needs needs need to be optimised and made more effective, i.e. concentrated. We agree with all of this. However, the people who deal with children with special needs every day have pointed out, on the basis of the sections of the draft, that they give cause for concern that public funding is actually decreasing, that changing minimum compositions is a reason to pull together support structures and remain incomprehensible to the end, who will cover the costs, because despite the promises the state does not assume responsibility for the support structures. The second round of topics that raise disputes about this draft is the school network and access to education. On the one hand, this paragraph, which provides for the establishment of state secondary schools in every county, seems to be very positive. What can we, the Riigikogu, object to the state building an upper secondary school with its own money on a joint decision in each county? However, let us look at this from the perspective of stakeholders and take particular account of the concerns of the Land Government Association. If there is one highly funded upper secondary school in the county, the other upper secondary schools will disappear quite quickly. As a result, professionals who can no longer share the burden between upper secondary school and primary school will disappear. They're gonna run between a bunch of junior high schools. Secondly, it is a concern that we are starting with the optimisation and transport of the school network, while we are simply talking about student homes and student grants, but in the case of vocational education, it was all in one bill at all times. It is arbitrary to give an example of vocational education here, because in vocational schools, each young person is guaranteed education and transport support. If a young person learns in Räpina, for example, but comes from Hiiumaa, he will see how many times he can drive home with this money, but he has been given this opportunity. In any case, in the case of upper secondary schools, other matters must be actually mentioned: school closure, transport, study grants and student homes. The third and most emotional theme is where the Minister ended: the position of teachers after the adoption of this draft as a law. The teachers' hour is currently 18 to 24 hours. There's a very big slouch here, and schools have used it quite differently. Teachers are clearly afraid. They are offered up to 35 hours instead of 24 hours, and at the same time they are told not to worry, the explanatory memorandum has repeatedly referred to this as a matter of negotiation, a contract can only be concluded with the agreement of the parties. However, there is an example of a time when cuts were made when half of the agreement was such that kindergarten teachers went to full - time work, earning half their wages. What choices do teachers actually have? Our students have so far shown comparatively simultaneous results. One of the reasons for this may be that we have very clearly harmonised rights and responsibilities for teachers, perhaps even a little old-fashioned. Whether we are prepared to give it up should be a longer debate than the debate during the summer round of coordination. The fee for class management should also be mentioned. Stakeholders have responded very emotionally to the loss of the class manager's premium because this work is taken up for 35 hours. The Minister's reassuring statement that this money will all remain in the same pot and that it may raise wages does not give the teacher the assurance that this work will be valued in the future. These discussions and interviews and meetings that took place during the summer, when the draft amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act was dealt with in the coordination round, as well as the published articles can be summarised by the statement of the new young chairman of the Federation of Educational Workers that he has not yet discovered why the basic school and upper secondary school law must be dealt with again and what are the few things that really hinder teachers' work. Until we have received confirmation from stakeholders that we really should deal with this draft, it is the proposal of the Centre Party Group to reject this draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U273	Thank you. Please, Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U274	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, This is a very paradoxical draft. Its preparation period has been relatively long and its design is based on the core of the education strategy. These are the five challenges that have been created by the very broad-based Estonian Cooperation Assembly, with the participation of the best experts in our education system. Nor can it be argued that stakeholders would be excluded from the initial drafting of the draft. Check the coordination table attached to the draft, which shows that as many as 14 organisations have submitted more than 160 proposals, comments or demanding comments. The Chairman of the Committee on Culture has already mentioned that the Commission has also received exceptionally many proposals. Many organisations have participated in the discussions of the Committee on Culture, but the paradox is that no party involved is satisfied with the draft, and no one thinks that it will bring more benefits than damage. I have never experienced such a situation in my more than six years of parliamentary experience. Uncertainty, fear, possible voluntarism of decisions, monetary dictation or fear of it have created a very strong emotional background for this bill. At the same time, almost all parties recognise that the organisation of comprehensive school and upper secondary school education requires changes. So what's wrong? I think this is a very serious communication disturbance, despite the fact that a good man from Ministry Kalle Küttt has been coming to explain in every corner of Estonia over the past year. The idea behind the changes exists, the need for change is quite widely accepted, but the solutions proposed by the Ministry are somehow mechanistic, if you like, authoritarian. At the moment, it is no longer certain whether the Estonian education system can be maintained as a school of unification on the egalitarian path, or whether it will undoubtedly become elitism. As an alumni at Tallinn Real School, I did not have the pleasure of reading today's news that my school makes basic education pay. This is the purest desire for an elite education system. In the case of the draft, we have to ask what is at the heart of it. A student or money? A schoolmaster or a teacher? Is it a cabin box or the content of the training? Egalitarian or Elitist Educational Organization? Will the teacher's professional value increase or not? Is the special educational need worth paying attention to or not? Are the funding principles deriving from the draft still in line with other laws, or even with the spirit of the Constitution, or do they conflict with them? Will the freedom of decision and autonomy of local governments be violated or not? Does the state funding scheme hamper access to education on land or not? Are there any intrinsic differences between the school network in cities and the countryside? These contradictions, or, to be fair, the two concepts, are not necessarily inclined in the same direction that on one side there is a ministry or a minister of education with his party or a coalition and on the other side everyone else. No, not at all. It's more versatile, kind of richer. This may give us hope that further discussion will be nuclear and will not run into congestion. The main struggle is for the fate of full-cycle magymnasiums, in fact for the future and vitality of rural settlements such as Räpina, Vändra, Avinurme, Mustvee, Tamsalu, Abja and many others. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U275	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U276	The aim of the upper secondary schools is to give upper secondary education to young people who do not want or cannot leave their home area to study in Tallinn or Tartu, for example. A smart compromise here is quite possible. In the Socialist Education Programme, we have formulated it as follows: the secondary schools formed by the municipal schools' upper secondary school section and the municipal municipalities' agreements, which are maintained by a local government decision and which are sustainable in terms of education and regional policy, are financed by the state on a school- and curriculum basis. This solution is, of course, more expensive than the path chosen by the Ministry of Education, but it is impossible to get good and cheap at the same time. As a representative of a political party in opposition, it would be very easy for me and my party to state here that we do not support this draft and propose that the draft 340 be excluded from the procedure. This, however, would be too vulgar, as if the subject were brought down and the education strategy was drawn up by the Estonian Cooperation Assembly. Education is an area too serious, too strategic, directly affecting tens of thousands of people and shaping the development of society as a whole, in order to move it one way or the other. I dare say that, at least so far, the atmosphere in the Committee on Culture has been constructive and cooperative, in other words, members of the coalition also have some healthy scepticism about the draft. Let us then work on the draft in such a way as to minimise the number of votes against at the next stages of the procedure and that, after the 2015 elections, we have no reason to make a radical change to the basic school and upper secondary school law immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U277	Thank you. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Liisa-Ly Pakosta Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U278	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen. The Isamaa and Res Publica Association welcomes all the substantive discussions that are currently taking place in Estonia on general education issues. We expect students, parents, the school and education community, as well as communities, to be actively involved in better organisation of school life. It is this week that the draft amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is very suitable for the first reading. Recalling the anniversary of the Republic, we return to the times of the War of Independence. Before the gunshots subsided, the young Republic of Estonia had come to recognise education as the most important step, the most important step, in order to rebuild the young state. Estonia's recent history shows that the Riigikogu has been very entrepreneurial in Estonia's educational issues. The Fatherland and Res Publica Union also clearly feel the responsibility that voters have placed on us as an educational community. I stress three things that it would be appropriate to emphasise at first reading. First of all, I repeat what my colleague Mart Meri said: it is good and responsible to achieve a consensus on education. This is the custom in developed countries. After all, we are talking about the fate of people who are going to be active adults in 20 to 30 years' time. We invite political parties in the Riigikogu to work to reach consensus! Our children deserve it. Indeed, it would be irresponsible to leave the first reading unfinished. Secondly, I would like to stress that a number of issues, in addition to those mentioned in the draft, have been set in motion in this Chamber in the course of today's debate. I firmly believe that the debate on whether three courses of study in upper secondary school are needed or whether we can promote high-quality upper secondary school education even without, in fact, a completely formal and undisputed requirement is entirely appropriate, despite the fact that there is no direct clause in the draft. As regards perhaps the most debated area, or the topic of support specialists, this does not just mean the question of who pays. The executive has already given the Riigikogu a clear mandate in the explanatory memorandum to discuss and resolve this issue. No one's ever tried to put that aside for a second. Learning joy of action for all of us! The third thing I want to emphasise in particular is that unfortunately, even during today's debate in this Chamber, the words 'child' or'student' have been heard. School isn't a thing or a purpose in itself. We are only doing this so that young people can learn as well as possible. Everything that's around it, everything that's next to it, is less important than that. This goal should not be lost for a moment. I hope that the ensuing discussions will focus more specifically on what the child or student will win or lose because of one or the other solution, precisely in this Chamber (this point of view may be better represented in the Committee on Culture). All that is next to this is important only to the extent that it supports the child and its development environment. Thank you for your attention and I really want to have lively debates.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U279	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Since we have received the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to reject the Bill 340 at first reading, we are preparing to vote on it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to reject the draft law amending basic school and secondary school and related other laws 340 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 39 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. First reading of the bill is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 340 amendments on 15 March 2013 at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U280	We're going to the next item. The tenth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act, the Rescue Services Act and related laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the speech chair to Secretary of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaheri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U281	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act, the Rescue Services Act and related laws. The development of this draft is due to the need to bring the Police and Border Guard Act, the Rescue Services Act and the Penal Register Act into line with the Public Service Act, which will enter into force on 1 April 2013. It is also necessary to make further amendments as changes to the law on special services are not sufficient in the implementing provisions of the public service. I will briefly mention the changes that this short draft provides for. First of all, similar service restrictions are imposed on officials and staff when they perform similar duties. The draft law also provides for the right to apply the additional restrictions laid down by law to the conclusion of an employment contract with an employee where access to the relevant databases, information or sensitive personal data is necessary for the performance of the duties of that post. This is due to amendments to the Civil Service Act, which will result in the conclusion of employment contracts with most of the officials performing support functions on 1 April. At the same time, such staff should also retain the necessary access to databases containing information intended for internal use or sensitive personal data of PPA officials for the performance of their duties. Secondly, changes to wage regulation. The new Civil Service Act amends the existing wage system by reducing wage components and abolishing central scales. The official's salary will consist of basic salaries, variable salaries and statutory bonuses. Consequently, our proposal is not to switch to the new wage system introduced by the Civil Service Act at the Police and Border Guard Board, but we consider it necessary to make technical changes to ensure that the current wage system will function once the new Civil Service Act enters into force. We also want to maintain the current wage system in terms of social guarantees, as the pension is calculated on the basis of the corresponding wage rate and the level of remuneration for the post. At the same time, the 2013 salary allocation has already been based on the new principle of the Public Service Act, which has increased the share of basic salary and reduced bonuses. The draft provides for the establishment of wage rates, the basis for differentiation, the level of remuneration, the basis for the payment of the premium to police officers and the scope of the regulation of the Minister of the Interior. According to the current law, they are established by the Government of the Republic. As regards the amendments to the Salvation Service Act, it is proposed to make the current wage arrangements for rescue workers similar to those established in the new Public Service Act, for example by eliminating differentiation. The wage rates of rescue staff, the allocation of basic salaries and the payment of variable salaries and allowances to rescue staff shall also be established by a decree of the Minister of the Interior. In addition, for reasons of legal clarity, the draft provides for the expiry date of the unused additional days of leave granted for the seniority of the police service. This means that the additional days of leave granted for service under the Civil Service Act in force before 1 April 2013 will not be maintained and the unused additional days of leave granted for service will expire within four years after the entry into force of the new Civil Service Act. In order to rule out disputes that may arise in the future, the deadline for the expiry of unused additional days of leave granted for the service of the police is set by analogy with the regulation of the Civil Service Act. Finally, I am talking about the exception to the requirement to organise a general competition. As is possible under the Police and Border Guard Act, the draft provides for the possibility of including a rescue officer in the rescue service without a competition. This derogation from the principles of general public service is necessary, as, for example, the cadets of the National Defence Academy have an obligation to start working in a rescue institution after graduation, otherwise they are obliged to pay the tuition costs. This amendment will allow for more flexibility in the organisation of the emergency services, as well as more operational re-engagement of graduates of the relevant field of study of the Institute of Internal Defence or those who have previously worked in the emergency services. The fact that there is no obligation to organise a competition does not mean that non-compliant persons may be recruited. It must be stressed that this is an opportunity. An analogous provision is also in the current Police and Border Guard Act. A police officer may be appointed without a public competition and this regulation shall be maintained beyond 1 April 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U282	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U283	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Waitress! Among other things, one of the objectives of this bill is to ensure the sustainable functioning of the police service. There is no doubt that sustainable functioning plays a very important role in managing the organisation. Namely, a new leader is currently being sought for the Police and Border Guard Board. They're looking for him for a target search. As a minister, have you ever had such an idea that Margus Kurm could become director of the Police and Border Guard Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U284	Thank you for your question. I've been through the mind of such an idea that the head of the Police and Border Guard Board could become a person with the best assumptions, leadership experience and leadership abilities. That is why we also made an amendment in Parliament in December, which was essentially supported by the absolute majority of the Riigikogu. Its purpose was precisely to lay down the requirement for the Head of the Police and Border Guard Board to have leadership and long-term management experience. There was no such requirement so far. The focus is now precisely on the long-term nature of management experience, so that this person can also see a broad picture, as it is an important public sector organisation. That is why these targeted searches are ongoing. I hope that we will be able to take an important step forward with this in the near future and that the Police and Border Guard Board will have a new dignified leader.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U285	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U286	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I want to ask you about your previous answer. As far as I know, the best specialist minister is himself. Are you really going to be headmaster of the Police and Border Guard Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U287	Thank you for this question and for the compliment. However, I dare to see my role rather as a'strategist', who gives a general vision and highlights the policies and priorities of the field that are being dealt with in the area of administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. That is what I have been doing since 2011. For almost two years, we have achieved very clear objectives. This work has not come to a point where I can be satisfied myself. A lot's been done, but there's a lot to be done. Consequently, I think that we are in a situation where the new Head of the Police and Border Guard Board would, in my opinion, have the task of looking at this organisation with a fresh look, to take the lead in an organisation established only three years ago, with the aim of harmonising different organisational cultures. This harmonisation is inevitably still ongoing. I dare say that it is also an important task to focus action even more on achieving results. I think there's a lot of work done here, but there's still room for improvement. So the task of this new leader, who is in charge of Estonia's largest public sector organisation, is quite complex.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U288	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U289	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. What does your gut say, will we know the name of the new leader before March 1st?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U290	I wouldn't get ahead of myself right now. We'll find out, I guess, when the time is right. The public competition was held in good faith. In my opinion, the clarification of the requirements for candidates and, in some way, the extension that Parliament did was certainly the right step. If it's the right time, the candidate's name will come. To this end, I have set up an evaluation committee, just as the Minister of Justice, Rein Lang, did at the time, acting as Minister of the Interior in 2009. We considered it appropriate to organise a public competition, as was the case in 2009.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U291	Thank you. Just in case, I say to the questioners: ladies and gentlemen, we will remain within the framework of the draft. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U292	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Both my first and second questions are very closely linked to the objective of this draft, which is set out in three lines. I repeat, this objective is to ensure the sustainable functioning of the police service. Undoubtedly, filling the post of director of the Police and Border Guard Board is one of the tools to ensure its sustainable functioning. I will repeat my previous question and ask you more specifically: will you submit Margus Kurm as candidate for the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board to the Committee on Legal Affairs of Parliament for discussion and approval by the Government of the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U293	Thank you for your question. As I said in the previous reply, in order to select candidates, an evaluation committee of five has been set up. As members of the Commission, the people of the Ministry of the Interior are involved, as are the State Secretary, the State Attorney General and the State Chancellor of the Ministry of Defence. The aim is to obtain an appropriate assessment of the suitability of candidates to carry out the task that the new leader is facing. So I look forward to the proposal made to me by the evaluation committee, and then we can move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U294	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher! Igor Gräzini, Member of the Commission, has a say in the accompanying presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U295	Madam Vice-Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was dealt with by the Committee on Legal Affairs on 11 February 2013, the debate started at 11 a.m. At 12:05 Peter Võsa left. Ken-Marti Vaher, Ministerial Adviser Mariko Jõeorg, Adviser to the Staff Policy Department Riina Maat and Legal Adviser to the same department Heli Vallisaar were invited to attend. [[Peter, am I wrong? I can't hear you, but okay.]] At the meeting of the Commission, this draft law was reviewed, the most important aim of which is to bring the Civil Service Act and the laws mentioned here into line. The problem is that the Civil Service Act will be in force on 1 April. a. The decision was to send the draft to plenary today (consensus), propose that the first reading be closed (consensus), propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 25 February 2013 (consensus) and appoint Igor Gräzin (consensus) as rapporteur. There you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U296	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much to Igor Gräzin! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The commission's proposal was that the first reading of Bill 364 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 364 amendments at 12 noon on 25 February 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U297	We're going to the last item on the agenda today. The first reading of the draft Act amending the Act on Fire Safety initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Once again, I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair's Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaheri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U298	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Fire Safety Act provides for quite a number of technical amendments, as well as a major substantive amendment, on which I am addressing. This important change is that we give a clearer signal to individuals, members of our society, that negligence in causing a fire is a prohibited activity and that it will continue to be more strictly sanctioned. This change should result in a reduction in the number of fires caused by negligence. In 2012, there was a total of 1939 fires in buildings, 517 of which were related to negligence in the use of open fire, 174 to smoking and 90 to food deserts. Killed fires most often start with careless smoking: in 2012, 54 of the people who died in the fire were killed by smoking. The problem with the current law is that there is no safety regulation, which would stipulate that it is not an acceptable act to cause a fire of negligence. Therefore, it is now possible to prosecute a person in a situation where his or her actions have already had extensive consequences and then criminal liability. Our proposal is to amend the law in such a way as to allow the perpetrator of the fire to be fined up to 300 fine units, i.e. up to 1200 euros, by a misdemeanour. These are primarily cases where, for example, a person has already caused a fire several times in an apartment building due to careless smoking or the use of open fire. The aim is to ensure the safety of other people, especially the neighbours, but also, of course, to make more reasonable use of the resources of the rescue commandos. Given the number of such fires, our estimate is that there could be about 700 misdemeanours per year. The sums received from the proceedings would go to the state budget. In short, I will also talk about other points, which are mainly technical. We will ensure legal clarity in the approval of construction projects and the authorisation of construction works. We will change the notification procedure regarding flammable and high fire risk time. The national monitoring of the causes of the fire and the provision of injunctions to suspend the use of the building or part thereof will also be amended. In our view, the overall impact of the draft could be, in particular with regard to this first, major change, that it is precisely the number of fires resulting from careless handling that is reduced by fire. There's too many of them now. As mentioned earlier, however, the number of deaths is high. We have reduced the number of people who have died from reckless smoking by introducing cigarettes that are rapidly dying. Here we can take one important step forward to reduce careless handling of open fire, as well as careless handling of fireplaces, for example. We expect this effect to occur relatively quickly. So we have a proposal to support this bill to the Riigikogu. Our proposal is that this law should enter into force as usual. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U299	Thank you very much. Please, Peter Võsa, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U300	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! This bill allows people to be punished for causing fire accidents on quite a large scale. But how much money and what exactly does the Ministry spend on information and prevention?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U301	Thank you very much for your constructive question. The amounts of prevention have increased quite significantly in recent years. In the 2013 budget, the Ministry of the Interior has also set out a number of information campaigns to prevent fire deaths. The target group is, for example, a foreign language population that unfortunately does not consume ordinary Estonian-language media. In addition, efforts are being made to inform those whom we might call socially more detachable in some form. They shall be accompanied, where appropriate, by smoke detectors at the expense of the State and shall be informed of the risks they have in their place of residence. I dare say that prevention is also of great importance in relation to this bill, because we are signaling that it is no longer just a matter of careless handling of fireplaces or of any kind of careless handling of fire. For example, we have mentioned cases where, despite complaints from neighbors, a person has still not changed his behaviour, there have been local fires and minor fires. This has not been followed by sanctions precisely because, under the current law, criminal liability arises only when there are extensive consequences. Now we're going to add a misdemeanor procedure. It should have, I suppose, a function that clearly prevents accidents. Both sides must be covered, so a signal of the sanction that goes into society, and, of course, a greater awareness of people, on which we will again spend considerably more money this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U302	Thank you very much. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U303	Mr. Minister! We talked about this a little bit in the Commission, but I would like to hear that explanation again. Unfortunately, we have quite a lot of folk artists in construction, whose understanding of safety leaves much to be desired. What happens if the fire is caused by incorrect installation, recklessly done electrical works, all kinds of false and short connections that arise because technical rules have not been complied with, etc.? Unfortunately, these things happen, especially in those houses that were built four or five years ago and where the wires are twisted together, the way God guides. Will it be followed by some kind of responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U304	Thank you very much. That's a good question. There's an electrical safety code. It sets out the responsibility for violating the requirements of electrical work. The fine is up to 300 fine units, which is as large as we are currently imposing the Fire Safety Act. The legal person is fined up to EUR 3200. So there is clearly a responsibility. The Electricity Safety Act provides for the nature of electrical work, which is also considered to be the installation of electrical equipment. For electrical works, requirements are laid down to ensure the safety of persons, property and the environment by complying with the relevant safety requirements. In addition, more complex electrical works can only be performed under the law by a person with the necessary technical and safety expertise and experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U305	Thank you very much. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U306	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, do not be offended if my question goes a little further than the subject. I hope the manager doesn't mind either. In the 19th century, Estonians were famous for being the greatest arsonists in the empire, or cause of intentional fires. It was sometimes considered to be a national character. But it wasn't about that, it was about scattered settlements. If somebody in Tambov had gone to retaliate by setting fire to the neighbor, it would have happened that I put the sauna, the village went, on the top of my tare. I'm interested in comparison. Have any of these traditions survived today? Is there a deliberate arson today, or is it a tradition, an early form of terrorism, when the weak may have been punished by a strong, extinct one?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U307	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, we have to admit that today, too, we are dealing with deliberate arson. I remember that from last year. There have also been some sort of autopsies before the public when there has been a suspicion that it was a deliberate arson. Procedures have also been initiated. However, it has to be admitted that this momentum has slowed down or slowed down compared to the 19th century, as the number of fires is generally falling with great momentum. This is not just because people want to harm their neighbors less (I hope, of course, from this too). Rather, the very important reasons here are the introduction of a smoke detector, continuous and increasing communication, work with a number of target groups that are more difficult to reach by conventional means, work with young people and, above all, information on risks and risks. As we have said today (which was highlighted by Mr Gräzin), these risks may be in places where a normal person does not even know how to fear them: a new house, a seemingly practical and professional employee, but then something unprecedented happens in the new building, because the new equipment was misconnected. I dare call it negligence, whether it is malicious or not, but in any case carelessness, resulting in a fire. There's gonna be cases. In my opinion, we can only succeed if the different lines of action are in parallel. Not in the sense that we are essentially only successful in extinguishing fires, but prevention is incomplete, or that supervision is not critical, but we contribute much to prevention. All these lines have to work. We have a clear responsibility and legal regulation from the law. Lifesaving capabilities have, I dare say, increased quite significantly due to the decisions made last year. The volume of fire safety surveillance has increased, the money for prevention has increased, etc. All facets must be cut. That's how we move on. I dare say that there is already something about the fact that in 2012, the lowest number of accident deaths after the restoration of independence, including the reduction in the number of fire deaths, was essentially 25%. But we need to move clearly from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U308	Dear Professor, your questions are always educational. That was a very nice question. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I would ask for a co-report from Peter Võsa, member of the Chair's Legal Affairs Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U309	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs took place on 11 February, chaired by Marko Pomerants, attended by Andres Anvelt, Igor Gräzin, Kalle Jents, Marika Tuus-Laul, Neeme Suur, Peeter Võsa, who, by the way, left at 12.05, Siim Kabrits, Valdo Randpere, advisor Linnar Liivamägi and adviser-secretariat manager Raini Laide. Kalle Laane was absent from the meeting. Mr Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister's Adviser Mariko Jõeorg, Acting Head of the Rescue and Crisis Policy Department, Priit Laaniste and Adviser Martin Lambing, were invited to the debate. The draft law amending the Fire Safety Act 363 was discussed. The members of the committee were informed of the content of the draft and answered questions put by the members of the committee. The purpose of drafting a draft law amending the Fire Safety Act is to solve problems encountered in practice and to ensure that persons are better informed about compliance with the Fire Safety Act. In order to solve practical problems, it is important to amend the Fire Safety Act and to clarify and correct fire safety requirements. As a positive effect, this will ensure that persons' behaviour is more law-abiding, as well as greater legal clarity in compliance with the Fire Safety Act. At the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda. a 20 February (this decision was taken by consensus), to propose that the first reading be closed (this decision was also decided by consensus), and to propose that the deadline for the submission of amendments be set at 6 March. a (this decision was also made by consensus) and to appoint Peter Võsa, or I, as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-20_U310	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Peter Võsa. Would you like to negotiate? There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 363 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 363 amendments on 6 March 2013 at 16 a.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted. I wish you a lovely evening. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 7.02 p.m.
