ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the eighth working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the opportunity to hear the oath of office of a member of the Riigikogu. Due to the suspension of the mandate of Urve Palo, member of the Riigikogu, Tiit Tammsaar became a member of the Riigikogu from 15 March. Please, Tiit Tammsaar, take the oath of office in the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U3	Official oath of a member of the Riigikogu: taking up his duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I will report an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas, regarding the development plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Namely, the plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs to spend nearly one million euros on purchasing and adapting the parent training programme developed by Australian researchers for Estonia was made available to the public today via the Eesti Päevaleht. At a time when 63000 children live in poverty or at risk of poverty in Estonia, buying such a programme for a million euros is completely irresponsible. I mean, these kids are gonna have to suffer from an empty stomach. For years, the Centre Party has stood for the relief of the lives of the families of children living in poverty. So far, all reasonable proposals, such as the extension of free school lunch to secondary school pupils, have been rejected. The justification is that the country does not have the money to support children and families in coping difficulties more, but now we have EUR 1 million to buy and adapt the training programme developed by Australian researchers. We ask the Minister whether it is reasonable to implement a plan for the development plan and how it will contribute to improving the lives of children at risk of poverty. We will also examine whether it is wise for him to buy a programme worth EUR 1 million. We also ask if they plan to study the program in Australia themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U6	Thank you. Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U7	Ladies and gentlemen, Last Wednesday, we handed over an inquiry to Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur, regarding developments in criminal policy, because we found that the report that the Minister made on the implementation of developments in the Chamber of Riigikogu was not exhaustive in substance. In this regard, we had 17 questions for the Minister of Justice. Unfortunately, the Board of the Riigikogu found 17 questions to be manifestly unreasonable 17 members of the Riigikogu have signed, including 15 Social Democrats and two members of the Democratic Association. The issues in themselves are the same, affecting developments in criminal policy until 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U8	Thank you very much. I have accepted two inquiries on behalf of the Bureau. If they comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, I shall forward them to the addressees immediately. Now I'll give you the messages. The governing board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed leading committees for them: firstly, Priit Toobali, Kalev Kallo, Olga Sõtnik, Jüri Ratas, Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendijev, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhi, Heimar Leng, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Aivar Riisalu, Mailis Repsi, Esther Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta and Kadri Simsoni. a draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, initiated on 12 March, to enable a popular initiative, a leading committee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; secondly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. a Draft Act amending the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu and other laws initiated on 12 March, commission of the Constitutional Committee; thirdly, the Estonian Central Party Group. a draft law on the amendment of the State Assets Act, initiated on 13 March, commission of the Economic Commission; fourthly, in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. a Draft Act on Supplementation to § 81 of the State Assets Act, initiated on 13 March, commission of the Economic Affairs Committee. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18. Let's go to this week's agenda, you have your agenda on the table. I shall put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U9	Let's go to today's agenda, start answering questions. The first is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kalev Kallo, Tarmo Tamm and Vladimir Velman, on 29 January 2013 concerning the Law on Homeowners' Debt Protection (No 277). Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U10	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! 14 January An article was published in the Estonian Päevaleht, which stated that in the last few years, about 4,000 people have been left homeless due to bank loans, which is a huge number for Estonia. The article refers to the problems encountered by nearly a fifth of Estonians who have taken out a mortgage. Last year alone, banks operating in Estonia placed about 850 homes for forced sales. Unfortunately, it is social problems that cause crime to a large extent. There is a reason to remind the Minister for the Interior of his own article 'We need the law on homeowners' debt protection', written in December 2009 and published on the Internet. To summarise briefly, the content of the article was that personal debt protection law is proposed as a solution for distressed borrowers. In April 2011, the Law on debt restructuring and debt protection entered into force, but looking at the figures above, it does not see that this law fulfils its purpose. We, a total of four members of the Riigikogu, ask the Minister the following question. First of all, do you have any information on the future fate of those who have lost their homes? " The second question: " As Minister of the Interior, do you think that such an unresolved problem could lead people who have lost their homes to commit crime? Third: " Why has one of your election promises not really helped people? ' Fourth: 'You have expressed your opinion on the Internet that there is a need for much more careful scrutiny of mortgage-backed claims in enforcement proceedings. How and when do you intend to put this idea into practice when you are serving as a minister? ' And fifthly, 'You have claimed that the enforcement procedure involves high performance charges, which are borne by the debtor and by which the debt burden on the creditor increases. This remains a problem that needs to be resolved. What actions are you planning to solve this? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U11	Thank you very much. Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you for your inquiry. The five questions concern the law on debt restructuring and debt protection, with which the Minister of the Interior has relatively little contact, but I will try to answer them. First of all, are there any data on the future fate of those who have lost their homes? These data are not easy to find. You refer to the loss of home in your question. It is certainly extremely regrettable and sad when people have to move out of their homes and acquire a rental space or a smaller dwelling because of the commitments they have made that they cannot meet. As we go from here to debt restructuring, the Law on debt restructuring and debt protection entered into force on 5 April 2011. So it hasn't even been in force for two years. The current situation, as far as we can find out, is as follows. In 2012, a total of 28 applications for debt restructuring were submitted to the county courts. Five applications were granted during this year. 13 appeals were lodged in Circuit Courts, the final settlement has been declared in 12 cases. Five appeals have been appealed to the Supreme Court. In more than half of the cases, more than one claim was due to debt restructuring. Most of the reasons for submitting applications were related to debts arising from credit agreements, with about a third of the settlements referring to housing loans. In about a fifth of the cases, the debt was generated by credit card contracts. Debts arising from guarantee contracts were cited as the reason for the application in a quarter of cases. In some cases, the debt was also attributed to the Tax and Customs Board. You're asking me if I, as Minister of the Interior, think that such an unresolved problem could tip people who have lost their homes into a criminal path. There is no doubt that if something tragic happens in a person's life, it will have a very negative effect on his self-esteem, on social cohesion and also on behaviour as a whole. That is, unless a person sees any other alternative. The main objective of the debt restructuring and debt protection Act was to create an alternative to bankruptcy proceedings in Estonia for people who would like to come out of a difficult situation by avoiding bankruptcy. In April 2011, a procedure for the debt restructuring of private individuals was introduced as was the case for the reorganisation of legal persons. This law was intended to give people who could cover certain obligations the opportunity to redesign their debts and come out of a difficult position. This will certainly reduce the other negative effects you referred to in your question. The third question concerns why the law has not really helped people. In replying to this, I must refer to the aim of this whole process that began in 2009. I am happy to recall the history of the state in which the law on debt restructuring and debt protection has been completed. If you remember, in 2009, a large number of households began to experience difficulties in repaying loans due to the economic crisis. In particular, there have been talk about home borrowers, who have 160,000 in Estonia. Until then, there was such a gap in the Estonian Code that the private person had no other option than to release the debt or to reconstruct the debt than bankruptcy proceedings. This was certainly not European. The European judicial area includes the possibility for a private person to redesign debts and this possibility was created by law on 5 April 2011. In 2009, when this bill was drawn up, it was a broad-based working group formed by the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee. It was led by legal scientist Paul Varul and included several peaks in his area. Looking back, it can be said that the law on debt restructuring and debt protection is the most extensive draft of the previous Parliament itself, which Parliament also adopted as a law. It became the law and has come into force. Our goal has been two-way. Firstly, to offer greater protection to families who have acquired housing loans, which have been around 160,000, and secondly, to create the possibility of self-employed debtors, who are temporarily, I stress: on a temporary basis! In the event of default, they want to come out of them by restructuring their debts and avoiding bankruptcy. I will bring out the four most important changes made to this law. First, the greater protection of a secured home. The law allows for a reduction of liabilities in respect of unsecured claims, for example, in relation to the principal remaining after the sale of the security. This in itself has forced creditors, i.e. mainly banks and other credit institutions, to cooperate much more closely with debtors than it was before the adoption of this law. Efforts are made to find a balance on a voluntary basis. Creditors are more motivated to grant loans or to postpone these payments to those who remain temporarily on their home loan. This is mainly because, since 5 April 2011, commitments can be reduced, there was no such possibility in Estonia before the law came into force. The banks had much greater protection. If anyone had defaulted, had violated a contract concluded for a certain period of time, which he himself voluntarily entered into, then the banks were in fact able to demand immediate execution. Now the banks are much more motivated to think about whether it is reasonable to go out on forced execution and sell real estate or whether it is better to reach an agreement with the debtor, for example, to give him a payment leave. The assumption is, of course, that the debtor will be able to overcome the temporary payment difficulties and conclude a better agreement. The second principle is to reduce secondary requirements. A practice has been completed in 2008 and 2009, according to which the claims remaining after the sale of the guarantee were subject to massive consumer loan interest, as well as other reasonable claims. The court can now significantly reduce secondary claims up to the amount prescribed by law. Thirdly, the ban on asking for additional guarantees. That is a very important principle! As we know, by law on debt protection, we prohibited the requirement for additional collateral simply because of the reduction in the market value of real estate that was possible before the entry into force of this law and which was particularly tried to be implemented by banks in 2008 and 2009. When the market fell, additional guarantees were required from individuals. If they could not be submitted, it was mostly decided to terminate the contract with the debtor and to sell it for a forced sale. And fourth, a reduction in enforcement costs. The costs of enforcement and enforcement proceedings will be clearly included in the amount of the mortgage at the time of the sale of the mortgage, thus lower costs for the owner of the immovable property. There has also been talk of the abolition of the bailiff's bonuses. These are the fundamental changes and the purpose of this law. It can also be said that the application of the Law on Debt Protection also reduced the limitation period for claims arising from court decisions from 30 to 10 years, reduced the time limit for the waiver of debt and made it cheaper to protect the debtor in enforcement proceedings. If you ask me what more can be done, I'll say it's always possible to do more. The competence to implement this law lies primarily within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. Firstly, it is possible to raise people's awareness, to improve their understanding of the effects of this law, to give people more legal assistance, to raise awareness of the opportunities that the legislator has created since 2011. Surely you can be much more demanding than you have been. At the same time, I would like to stress that the purpose of creating this law was certainly to strike a balance between the interests of the creditor on the one hand and those of the debtor on the other. Perhaps you remember about a year and a half ago when we debated this draft in Parliament. These disputes were very heated, we spent dozens and dozens of hours making this bill a law. I believe that we now have a very important cornerstone on which temporary default debtors can be helped. However, the only way to get rid of the debt is through bankruptcy proceedings, not in temporary difficulties, but in so-called permanent difficulties. Question 4: 'You have expressed your opinion on the Internet that there is a need for much more careful scrutiny of mortgage-backed claims in enforcement proceedings. How and when do you intend to put this idea into practice when you are serving as a minister? ' This subject is not a matter of the Ministry of the Interior. I can just say a few comments here. The limitation of the substantive verification of the correctness of the claims submitted is a problem in the enforcement procedure. One solution could be to deprive the bank, as a mortgage holder, of the right to apply directly to the bailiff for realization, without that claim being recognised by the court. The possibility of a simple statement of objections by the debtor that existed before 2006 could also be restored in enforcement proceedings. However, this is very clearly the subject of Parliament's discussion and I call on you to debate it. There is certainly a major problem in this area, too, with people's lack of legal awareness. You can't go anywhere to defend your rights until it's too late. In recent years, and I myself in the office of the Minister of Justice, the government has significantly increased the state's contribution to state legal aid. This will also be done this year, for example by increasing the volume of legal aid provided through non-profit organisations. So the state has taken steps here and will continue to take action. And the last question: 'You have argued that the enforcement procedure involves high performance charges, which are borne by the debtor and by which extent his debt to the creditor increases. This remains a problem that needs to be resolved. What actions are you planning to solve this? " Yes, there was a very serious discussion of the overpayments of the bailiffs during the process of dealing with the Law on Debt Protection. As far as I am aware, the Ministry of Justice is currently assessing these court fees, and I hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs will be informed of where they have reached or where they will arrive soon. It can be expected that, in the near future, a review of the fees of the public service may be expected in court proceedings, similar to those of the public service fees. Indeed, in enforcement proceedings, it is a specific problem that, for example, enforcement proceedings against the same debtor are brought against a number of performers and, as a result, the debtor can unduly bear a disproportionate amount of enforcement costs alone. However, once again, I call on Parliament, above all, to discuss how to better share the enforcement costs and burden the debtor as little as possible. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U13	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. Let's continue with the questions. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U14	Minister of the Interior! Six months ago, news came out about the Law on Debt Protection that it would not help anyone because the courts refused to discuss the proceedings. Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Legal Commission of the IRL, said that he would take the autumn work plan to review this law and invite the main authors of the law to come to him. You were one of them. Has the situation not yet come to the point that the Centre Party, which was the source of this law, should return to the idea that if a home loan has been taken and its collateral is a home, a person would be in trouble, could not repay the debt and would give away the keys to his home, could he no longer be left with the interest on the consumer loan? This rule applies in the Nordic countries. Wouldn't it make sense for us to admit that we tried a more complicated solution, but it hasn't worked and should go the easier way to make sure that the home loan is the same home?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U15	I'd love a long answer. First of all, the Central Party's draft has not been the basis for the creation of the law on debt protection. I myself have made a public comment on this, and this has also been explained in detail in 2009, which was the problem of some of the drafts you presented. There were quite a few of these problems. There are no such principles in the Nordic countries as you have now argued on your question. But I'll try to comment layer by layer. First of all, when you look at the draft that you once submitted, the problem was, above all, that you measured all debtors with one yardstick, regardless of the reasons for the defaults, the reasons for the incorrect valuation of the property, the behaviour of the debtor himself, etc. One of the very clear principles of debt reform of the Law on Debt Protection is that this procedure is personal. The transformation of debts takes place in court proceedings, each case is discussed separately, each application is discussed separately, and the law provides the framework within which the court has the power to decide. This is a very important principle. Your bill also did not take into account cases where the person has several dwellings. For example, housing had been acquired for resale purposes, while the loan was not used for specific purposes. Or the loan was taken together by several persons, the guarantee was provided by a third party, etc. It is clear that if this draft, which you submitted in 2009, had become a law, we would now very likely be talking about new conditions for all the new home borrowers, which are 160,000. This would have led to an increase in self-financing, a reduction in the maturity of loans, certainly a further tightening of the valuation of collateral, and, of course, an increase in interest rates on loans. In short, this would have made it considerably more difficult to take home loans in Estonia, and I think it is essentially impossible for very many, thousands of families. As we know, the people of Estonia are more of a homeowner's religion, and they want to acquire a home for themselves. More than 90% of Estonian households have some kind of dwelling, their own property. This situation is very different from Germany, for example, where this percentage is less than half. Only 40% of families own a home there, 60% prefer a rental or rental relationship. But how do people become owners of their homes? Inevitably, there are very few who will be wealthy by inheritance or lottery victory. In general, you still have to take a home loan, and there are many home borrowers in Estonia. They also need to be increased and the aim is to strike a reasonable balance so that, on the one hand, the home loan can continue to be taken into account so that its conditions do not become unreasonable and, on the other hand, the interests of the debtor are taken into account as much as possible. Before 2011, when the Law on Debt Protection had not entered into force, the creditor's rights were disproportionately high. It has to be more balanced. You also mentioned, in your question, the problem of debt that will be left over after the pledge or the mortgage has been realised, and you explained how it is set out in other countries. For the first time since our country's release, the Law on debt protection has been providing an opportunity for debt restructuring proceedings since 5 April 2011 to help people in temporary defaults whose pledge has been realised. If there is still any amount to be paid out of the principal of the debt, the court can reduce it as much as it considers reasonable. As I said, this is an extremely important change. This has forced creditors, i.e. credit institutions and banks, to cooperate much more closely with the debtor, to take account of the higher rights already in the beginning of the debtor's law and, consequently, to offer him a grace period, to postpone payments, to negotiate. Domestic loans are known to be long-term loans, long-term commitments to be made for 20, 25, 30 years. Each bank is probably more interested in negotiating than a family in temporary default. Take, for example, a household where both people have had a job. The bank has estimated that these persons can buy a single family home, but unfortunately one member of the family has lost its job, the other may have remained in part-time work, for example working at a 75% load. They have temporarily lost their solvency, but it can be assumed that these are people who could restore their solvency over a period of time. The bank would rather meet these people than put up foreclosure and terminate the contract. I dare say that we have found a balance in the law on debt restructuring and debt protection to the extent that it was possible at the beginning of 2011 when the law was adopted. At the same time, I am convinced that it is possible to move forward from here. I certainly support on two sides that Parliament will analyse the practice of the last two years and find these places in the law that need to be supplemented or otherwise amended. As I said, representatives of very different interest groups sat at the table of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The opinions were different. As we know, there was no such regulation in the Estonian legal system so far; we have only had a good precedent in the form of the debt restructuring of legal persons, which we call reorganisation. We created a similar opportunity for private individuals, but I see the need to simplify it, to cut red tape. Of course, it is also necessary to train the courts who are implementing this right, the negotiators of each individual case. From here, I think we can go further in order to make the whole regulation even more understandable and easier for the debtor. However, we must not forget, of course, that we cannot disproportionately harm the interests of the creditor either. Excessive restrictions on creditors will inevitably lead to what I mentioned at the beginning of my reply. This means that the general situation of other potential borrowers will deteriorate considerably, but many young families would still like to have a home. We cannot allow this to deteriorate for them. I call on Parliament to really analyse this issue; the Committee on Legal Affairs is going to do so. And the Ministry of Justice is his main partner here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U16	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U17	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Minister! As we know, you're about to open a beautiful new police building in Narva tomorrow. I don't know if you're gonna find 15 minutes on your schedule to go to Kreenholm Island and see what's theoretically offered to the National Defence Academy so it can move. At the same time, I have another offer: would you agree to visit a settlement near Kohtla-Järve on your way back to Tallinn or already in Narva, where those who lost their home live because we have the law as it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U18	Thank you for your attention. But let me remind you why we started working on this bill and put together a highly respected group of people. It is precisely because of the concerns you have mentioned that people are in difficulty and are unable to repay the loan. I said then, and I will say it today too: I believe that several Estonian credit institutions and banks did not behave responsibly enough during the banking boom, but were likely to act to seize the market. We remember the subway, we remember the commercials on TV where oil burst right out of the couch. With this intrusiveness and this huge wave, people were offered so-called cheap money, an opportunity to buy a home. I dare to guess, and this opinion emerged in many discussions, and also from the examples that we discussed in the Working Group on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs, that banks did not check the background of borrowers thoroughly enough, their ability to repay the loan. For this reason too, the number of borrowers in Estonia exploded over a few years. Estonia was, if you remember the years 2006, 2007 and 2008, the country with the fastest growing number of home borrowers in Eastern and Central Europe. The problem you referred to is certainly a very serious tragedy. There have been many people who have lost their homes. Until April 2011, they had only one way to go: to be freed from debt through bankruptcy proceedings. Two years ago, as legislator, we created an opportunity to avoid bankruptcy proceedings, which can be used primarily by people who have temporary payment difficulties and not by permanent ones. So there is a chance, but unfortunately, so far it has been used little. I hope that more will be used. I certainly welcome the fact that we are reviewing the weaknesses of this procedure, perhaps it is too complicated. But the goal is to give people more opportunity to help themselves. And that is what we can do through the same legal proceedings that are called the debt restructuring procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U19	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U20	Good minister! How do you justify the claim that the Homeowners' Debt Protection Act has helped people when we see that the number of forced sales has increased every year? Last year, there was a record sale of real estate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U21	I explained for quite a while you were in the hall and listened to what I was saying, which is the purpose of the law on debt protection. I also explained that the protection provided by the law is two-way. It offers greater protection to home borrowers by prohibiting the provision of additional collateral since 5 April 2011 if the market value of the property has decreased for reasons not attributable to the debtor. Secondly, the home that is secured is better protected than it has been so far. A very important change concerns, in particular, the reduction or removal of liabilities if the pledge has been realised, but nothing is paid out of the principal of the debt. This is a very important principle that has not yet been in force in Estonia. We have also talked about reducing enforcement costs and secondary requirements by means of this law. We have been talking about the shortening of the time for the debt waiver when the current deadline was five years rigid in order to obtain the debt waiver, for example in bankruptcy proceedings, the shortening of the time limit and the possibility for the court to approach each case individually, assessing very different circumstances. It is quite clear that in proceedings concerning debtors, the approach must be individualised, and in no way be hit by a single table. The circumstances are different, people's backgrounds are different, the causes of defaults are different, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U22	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U23	Mr. Minister! I hear your answers, and I think our minister will protect banks more than those people who have lost their homes. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U24	I think you can also ask the members of the working group or of the Committee on Legal Affairs how heated we had heated disputes with, for example, the Banking Union in 2009 and 2010. These were very heated and intense disputes, and I dare say that no one has any reason to claim that I defended or now disproportionately defend the interests of creditors as the chair of the then Committee on Legal Affairs. Not by a long shot! As I said, this law will better balance the positions of the creditor and the debtor. Before the entry into force of the Act of 5 April 2011, the Estonian Code was actually on the verge of creditors, and now we have made the situation worse for creditors. And like I said, it was born in heated disputes. I think it is reasonable to continue these disputes, because just as the legal order of Estonia as a whole cannot be static, so the process of debt restructuring develops, the principles of this procedure evolve in other countries of the European Union. Over the last ten years, the Member States from which we have taken the lead have also taken a flexible approach to and changed their regulations. We will take a number of Scandinavian countries, including Central European countries. It would be a sin if we said that now the stake has been laid down, a very important law has been adopted in its original form, and we will not be dealing with this issue any more. I'm sure we will! Two years will come, the committee will carry out its analysis, and the Ministry of Justice will certainly do the same. During the last parliamentary term, a good basis could be created from which it would be possible to move forward in order to better protect people's legitimate expectations and proportionate interests, to raise their legal awareness, i.e. to let them know that there is an opportunity at all to redesign debts. And, of course, this procedure should be made even easier for people. In 2009 and 2010, when we legalized this procedure for the first time in Estonia, there were various opinions. There were also views that this possibility might be abused. Representatives of several interest groups, as well as our politicians, expressed doubts that the courts may even be flooded with statements that thousands of applications are heading for the courts. None of this has happened. Rather, it has to be admitted that there have been too few statements, there could be more. In our analysis, we need to reach out to the reasons why there are few statements and whether it is possible to help people who are really in trouble better, to make the procedure easier for them and to move on with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U25	Please, my colleague Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U26	Mr. Minister of the Interior! Do you have statistics on how homeowners' debts are broken down into municipalities in Estonia? I am not asking, of course, about all the municipalities, but I am asking which regions are the most acute of this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U27	I have to say, I can't give you that kind of review. On your question, we will be happy to find out if possible. But I think that the problem may be more severe in areas where unemployment is greater. At one time, the banks assessed the people who took out the loans, generally as financially viable persons. If work is lost, credit payments will be in trouble and, in this sense, the ability to clearly link debt to the level of unemployment in one region or another. What is positive is that unemployment has fallen strongly in Estonia over the last one and a half to two years, as a result, the number of people who have been burdened with their loan payments has also fallen. But this correlation is quite clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U28	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I'm opening negotiations. My colleague Kadri Simson of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U29	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The Minister's long answers sounded as if, in the last two years, when the law on debt protection has been in force, the situation of people in difficulty by paying home loans had improved considerably. The facts do not confirm that. Last year, almost 850 homes were forgone and 833 homes were posted before that, according to Postimees. If we consider that households that have taken home loans are largely not one-member households, then it means that thousands of people have lost their homes, they have been forced to sell. What's the problem with forced sales? The fault with forced selling is that it's on bank terms. Most of the fast selling takes place, and if these home loans are taken during the boom, then the home was probably bought much more expensive than it is now sold quickly. As is known, bank agreements concluded in Estonia determine this loan relationship in such a way that even if the property taken as collateral for the home loan and also as collateral is sold, the remaining part of the debt remaining on the loaner must be paid to the bank until the last cent. So the owner has lost the deposit, he has lost his home, and if the home is sold cheaper than the purchase price, he has to pay back the loan balance. Now for the Law on Debt Protection. The latest information I have is that 61 applicants have wished to go to court to redesign their debts, 51 of which were not discussed. So, indeed, if you put alongside more than 1,500 forced-sale homes and only 10 applications that were taken into account, it can be argued that this law has been developed, spending enormous hours of work, but it does not help anyone very much. We already introduced the principle that applies in Sweden, for example, during the boom. When a person goes to get a home loan, the bank evaluates his home, does so honestly and says that this two - room apartment costs, for example, EUR 70000. In doing so, the bank takes into account that if the borrower fails in the next 30 years, his home will be sold at a price and the bank will get its money back. In Estonia, however, during the boom, the bank knew that it could grant a much larger amount of loans because there was no risk to the bank. The bank will receive the entire contribution so far and, even if sold cheaply, it will probably also receive the balance of the loan. If you cannot, you will be burdened by the interest on the consumer loan. The person loses everything, the risks of the bank are also on the borrower's shoulders. What's wrong with that? The fact that it pushed for the rise in real estate prices. It is currently being intimidated that such a mitigation mechanism for domestic loans would in future make domestic loans more expensive. I think it would prevent a panicking rise in the prices of real estate, which is in no way justified. It's just that banks don't give more loans than real estate is worth, and consequently they can't charge more than they deserve for the same real estate. For the next 30 years, the buyer will be able to pay the bank a lower amount of its income than it is currently required to do in the case of overpriced real estate. So one simple and logical mechanism to prevent a real estate bubble in Estonia was squirted again. It was suffocated by a law called the Law on Debt Protection, which has so far not helped anyone much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U30	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U31	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! Mr. Minister! In autumn 2008, an older lady came to see me. As it turned out, he was in primary education. That explains a lot about what happened to him, but this happened to him. Madame had her back then, and she is now, thank God! just in the old town of Narva, a two-room nice Hrushchevka. At a certain point, he changed jobs, went from one institution to another, had been out of work for a few months and owed utility payments. The chairman of the housing association, who is not the chairman of the building for a long time now, began to pressurize him, finally essentially grabbed his hand and took him to one of the credit offices where he asked him to collect the amount of debt he owed, plus what, according to the chairman's calculations, he would still need in the next six months. Madame signed the contract. When he came to me, the problem was that by that time he had paid interest for the year of the circuit, he had already paid much more than the amount he owed, 7,000 kroons, so far I remember, and had not written off the principal debt. The eviction process began. When I read the contract with his credit office, my hair stood up because I couldn't even imagine such a fantastic document. I contacted the lawyers, we started working on it, and it turned out very quickly that this, I'd say, crime office alone lost about 30 families. Why didn't you know that in town? Because they chose customers with great wisdom, preferring those who were unable to actively fight, whose attitude to life was passive, and who suffered all the sense of peace. These people were not noticed in the city because they were taken along with the furniture and things that fit into the suitcases, 40 km away from Narva, to a settlement that I advised the Minister to visit tomorrow. They live in houses with no water, no sewers, no heating, no electricity at all. When we started looking into it, there was talk about it in all the local newspapers, but no one could get past one page. It was printed in 30,000 prints and distributed free of charge into every apartment. So everyone knew about the problem. The police knew what was going on, the courts knew, the prosecutor's office knew what was going on, but no one intervened. A group of volontaires was formed to help people who were in need, including those who had to have been evicted. They started writing applications and turning to the police, the prosecutor's office, and so on. crooks and thugs like the one in that loan office are afraid of the public interest. They stopped operating in our town in six months, disappeared. But what do I want to say? No criminal proceedings were brought on the basis of any of the statements made. No one took seriously what happened and what was going on, except in other places. The same criminal thugs who were then quietly operating in Narva and who were expelled are now operating as a company in other cities with a different name. I have information on that. And they do practically the same, looking for the weakest people to devour them. They had a schematic like this. Due to debts, the person loses the dwelling, the apartment is put up for sale, part of the money goes to pay the debt, the rest is distributed among themselves. By the way, all these people were known, all their activities were known in the city. They even reached out to politics, they had their own election list, they were going to make our whole town and maybe in the future the whole region their diner. Why am I saying this now? We usually hear beautiful round sentences here, that you need it, you need it, you need it, you need more control, etc. Why? Why say this when things like what I was talking about now happen and there are dozens of episodes, but in an institution under your command, Mr. Minister, nobody pays attention to that? Why are people who help others completely free of charge not taken seriously, making statements, turning to the police, etc.? Why is no one dealing with this problem? It wouldn't have to be dealt with at the level of the legislator, but at the lower level, where we all are, it should. So, yes, 250 apartments put up for sale last year are only a small part of what actually happens in the real estate sector. The journalists I was talking about interviewed only the biggest banks, but there are a lot of credit offices that smoke across Estonia. Their work continues to result in new and new homeless people. What to do with this problem if you do nothing, nobody can say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U32	My colleague Marika Tuus-Laul next, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard here from the Minister a lot of explaining how the Law on Debt Protection has helped homeowners in distress and improved the situation. In fact, we can see that things have gotten worse year after year. Last year, the people of Estonia gave up nearly 900 homes to banks. In the last few years, some 4,000 people have been left homeless because of bank loans. Almost one fifth of the residents who have taken out a mortgage are having problems paying out their loan payments. The number of forced-sale homes is not disclosed by the banks, and so far only the press have dealt with it. The press has collected data and claims that last year's forced sales went to record quantities of real estate. The number of forced sales is increasing every year. Last year, 56% more property was taken away from private debtors than in 2011. More than 4000 real estate objects have been auctioned since 2007. It's not just real estate. The question is much wider. A few months ago, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a European Union directive which, if transposed, would better protect our consumers as well. Then there was a bill that was prepared as a result of the lobbying of the Estonian Banking Association and the Estonian Association of Liising Associations, which did not protect borrowers, as was the original purpose, but instead banks and other lenders. On the basis of this draft, banks will be able to cancel a loan agreement for failing families even more easily than they are currently and can only assume how many people in debt jam will lose their homes or other assets secured by a loan. Not a day goes by when we don't hear tragic cases where entire families lose their homes. We can also see how, when new loan agreements are signed, the debt will increase over and over again. It was only recently that a person borrowed money from Bigbank was released. He signed a loan agreement, but he didn't get a cent from the bank, not one euro, while the loan grew to seven times the debt and the payment schedule was signed for decades. We see banks selling debtors online. The loan managers say it's not their problem, so please contact the Social Services Department. But in court, people in debt don't have much to do. Our country does not protect the helpless people, nor has this law of debt protection for the much-hungry homeowners helped them. I think it was purely a slogan of the election, and that is the law that remains to this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U34	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U35	We will go to the next inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Lauri Laas, Peeter Võsa, Eldar Efendiev, Viktor Vassilyev and Yana Toom on 30 January. a on Corruption Crimes (No 278). Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U36	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday I and, of course, all of you had the pleasure of watching the old "Spring" movie, where the famous sentence that once again became an integral part of our lives, "What doesn't get stuck, will be shut down!" '. The inquiry that I am about to tell you about is actually repeated in its substance. It was such a rare thing that the heirs did not receive any answer to any previous question of inquiry, the answer of which required a firm position. But now what we're talking about. This is a single operation. On 28 June last year, a meeting of the City Council of Narva took place, which decided that a new structure of the Narva authorities would be in place as of 2 July, no longer being part of the Municipal and Economic Administration of Narva. Simply put, part of the structure had to disappear a few days after that decision. If no one knows, such decisions shall be taken after they have been weighed for months. This plan was up in the electronic city hall for four months. It was thus known that such a decision would have to be made by the coalition, which has made every effort to adopt the new structure. However, Mrs. Tamara Luigas, Acting Director of the City Property and Economics Department of Narva City Government, did such an act that she relieved the manager of this disappearing structure and placed another gentleman on it a few days later. The department had to disappear on 2 July, the new manager's contract of employment was signed one day before the council meeting, and on the same day it was as if he took office. I will now explain the background to those who have not worked in the local government. The operation was done in advance, knowing that the unit would disappear, and the person was put to work under a certain contract. It was known that the place was going to be laid off, so the party would receive quite a bit of compensation. Not only did this hired gentleman immediately take the sick list and suffer happily from an unknown disease for two months and 12 days. Throughout this period, of course, he received a very nice salary, EUR 1188 50 cents plus extra charges, amounting to almost EUR 1500. I hope you understand my point: he didn't work a day, he was on sick leave, he didn't do anything in this job! The person was recruited, soon dismissed and paid an overall sum of EUR 7206 plus social and unemployment contributions of EUR 2377. Clearly, the City Government of Narva saw it as a crook, wrote a statement to the police, and received an answer that everything was fine. I mean, they didn't write that form, they just said they weren't gonna handle it. And now I have some very specific questions on behalf of eight members of the Riigikogu, these are written here, all four questions. I beg you, this time, if you're asking for yes or no, answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U37	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, to answer the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U38	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I totally agree that this is a very strange question. But we have not heard such enquiries here before, which try to obtain the position of one or another minister on matters that are up to the local government in accordance with the Local Government Organisation Act. The municipality has the right to manage the local life independently and it is known that the Minister will not intervene if you have any dispute with one of your former subordinates who did not like you because he allegedly began to draw attention to the corruption of the Narva City Government. I repeat: alleged and alleged corruption. And you just let him go because you made a structural change. But please turn to the court! I repeat: turn to the court! You know perfectly well that you have this opportunity. You know that in every particular case, the court gives legal opinions. They shall not be granted by one, another or third member of the Government of the Republic. If you want to ask why the Bureau for corruption in the Central Criminal Police did not initiate proceedings, I can answer you as I answered last time. The Office for Corruption Crimes of the Central Criminal Police of the Police and Border Guard Board did not launch criminal proceedings in October 2012. The Office of the City of Narva appealed this decision to the Viru District Prosecutor's Office, which also took the view that it was justified not to initiate proceedings. You're referring to real damage here. You will always have the opportunity to apply to the court for a specific claim for damages. That's your right! If you are not satisfied with one official or another who has worked in your city administration for years, and now there is a specific reason for dissatisfaction, you can turn to the court. I assume you've done it, too. You can also contact the County Elder of Ida-Viru, who, pursuant to § 85 of the Government Act, has the right to supervise the legality of the administrative acts of local government councils and governments of the county. I am happy to respond to this part of the question, where you are not directly asking, but you are asking, what has been done to reduce corruption in the Estonian state. I am taking this opportunity to stop at what has been done since 2011 when I have carried out the duties of the Minister of the Interior myself. I will answer you as I have done on several occasions in this remote control. First of all, I myself am convinced that serious covert crimes, and this type of corruption crime, will certainly require even more attention than has been the case to date. I've been channeling a lot of resources into the entire two years I've been in office as Minister of the Interior. I can also talk about concrete actions. At the beginning of last year, we restored the Central Criminal Police at the Police and Border Guard Board, which aims primarily to be a central competence unit for investigating serious covert crimes throughout Estonia. The Central Criminal Police brings together information, communicates experiences, introduces good practice, good methods and standards, so that there is an unambiguous approach to these serious crimes throughout Estonia. There is certainly corruption in local governments. As of 1 January 2012, a central corruption investigation office, first established by the Central Criminal Police, will operate. Its capacity will also be increased this year by allocating both money and technical resources to the Office's activities. The Central Criminal Police of the Police and Border Guard Board is known to be responsible for investigating corruption in 220 municipalities. Six of Estonia's largest municipalities, i.e. six major cities, have the competence of the Defence Police Department and we have also given more money to the defence police. We have also expanded the competence of the Defence Police to investigate possible manifestations of corruption, in particular in state-owned or state-owned commercial companies and public organisations. In addition, since the beginning of last year, the Central Criminal Police has a unit for tracing and confiscating the proceeds of crime. It can be said that the capacity to detect proceeds of crime was relatively modest in Estonia in 2011. The resources involved have been increased almost three times. The composition extends to twenty people, and I think that last year's results in criminal cases where the proceeds of crime have been confiscated actually speak for themselves. But these are the first steps, this year we want to move forward further. Why are we focusing on the proceeds of crime? In my opinion, we can best cope with serious, hidden and organised crime if, as a country, we can weaken the main motive that spurs the organised criminal world to act. This motive is criminal money, criminal revenue. Finally, as a whole, the reduction of corruption at national level, in particular general steps. As you know, in 2004, the first anti-corruption strategy of the Government of the Republic was adopted 'A Honest State'. It's gotten quite a few sequels now. Two months ago, in January this year, the proposal for a new anti-corruption strategy was approved, involving a very wide range of steps and measures to reduce corruption in the country and in society at all. The new "Honest State" was confirmed as the starting point for establishing a strategy for 2013‐2017. It is intended to be completed by the end of this year; the working group has begun its work. This strategy focuses mainly on the private sector, but also on local authorities, and also seeks to further harmonise preventive steps in the transport of the Ministry of Justice. We are also trying to bring together those steps aimed at increasing the capacity to investigate corruption. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U39	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's continue with the questions. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U40	Mr. Minister! I have the impression that you have problems understanding Estonian. I will read out the question to which I would like to answer: 'Accord to the situation where a high official takes a person into employment, which goes to lay off three days after the person has been recruited. Do you think this situation is legally correct? '
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U41	Thank you for your question. As I said, if you would like to have an assessment of one or the other of the cases relating to the Narva City Government, under your own political power, please refer to the court that assesses the facts, what has happened, what has taken place in the collection and can make a final decision. That is, of course, on the basis of your complaint. Do you want financial compensation? As I said in response to the inquiry, you have turned to the Central Criminal Police to open criminal proceedings. Neither the Central Criminal Police nor the Public Prosecutor's Office, which belongs to another area of government, the Ministry of Justice, has found any reason to initiate criminal proceedings. Therefore, you are likely to have to recover the damage caused from the persons concerned in civil proceedings. I am absolutely convinced that if you do, or if you have already brought such an action, you will get an assessment of what has happened from the very authority that is justified to make such an assessment. It's a duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U42	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U43	Minister of the Interior! I do not suspect that you do not speak Estonian, and I also think that Mr Stalnukhin understands Estonian. But I had a question about how to help Mr Stalnukhin if he wanted a minister of the Government of the Republic to take the role of judge and state his position as to whether or not this is a criminal offence. What do you suggest to Mr. Stalnukhin? Do you, for example, initiate a bill that would oblige the Minister to turn into a judge, or what should we do in such a situation so that we do not have to discuss this issue again every month?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U44	Thank you for your question. Perhaps it is quite appropriate to explain once again what can be done by the Minister of the Interior in his area of government and by the Minister of Justice in his area of government. Why am I talking about these two ministers? Because your question concerns the initiation or non-initiation of criminal proceedings, and it concerns the area of government of these two ministers. As you know, since 2004, criminal proceedings are conducted by the prosecutor's office and investigators with criminal investigation functions. These two ministers are not allowed to intervene or interfere in criminal proceedings in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Estonia and the rule of law. I haven't done it, and I'm never gonna do it. I do not think that the other ministers of the Republic of Estonia have done such a thing either; they have not exercised telephone rights so far and will probably not do so in the future. I very much hope that if, for example, your party takes power, you will not introduce such practice in Estonia either. This would be illegal and would certainly have an extremely negative impact on our rule of law. Thus, decisions to initiate and not initiate criminal proceedings are taken by the criminal authorities which have the right to do so by law. You've taken the opportunity to contact the Central Criminal Police. You will always have the opportunity to appeal to the internal control of the Police and Border Guard Board if you have any doubt that the decision not to initiate one or the other criminal proceedings is biased. You can turn to internal control, who will definitely control these claims, and you can also contact the prosecutor's office, who will be, as I have already mentioned, the head of criminal proceedings in Estonia for almost ten years. It seems to me that we have chosen, as a country, a balanced path where it is possible to turn to different authorities in case of doubt, to exercise the right of appeal. And, as I said, if your wishes cannot be satisfied in criminal proceedings, then you can choose other forms of legal proceedings and also recover the damage alleged to have been caused or resolve this problem in some other way. We have counted the steps you have taken on this matter, and I am giving you for the second time advice on what else could be done. I'm having a hard time helping you more. In my opinion, the best advice is to turn to the Estonian judicial system, which will provide the final answer to the questions you asked in your inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U45	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I will open negotiations and ask Mikhail Stalnukhin to speak. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U46	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I also know perfectly well where and where I have the right to turn. We are now talking to you here in the Riigikogu, we are chatting like a member of the Riigikogu and a minister of the government, and I am following a sentence that I really enjoyed and said here by the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas: the minister is responsible for everything that is going on in the administration of his ministry. This is a very simple question, it is not just a case. You may have realized that the question I asked from my seat was not specific, it was somewhat abstract, it was about the model. Let us imagine the next situation. The Speaker of the Riigikogu, not Mrs Ergma, but the hypothetical possible Speaker of the Riigikogu, knows that, from 1 July, some department will cease its work in the Riigikogu, yet he will take the new head in office two days before this department is dissolved. Why are you stuck in Narva all the time? Still Narva and Narva! Think about it, approach the situation more widely, consider other cases! For example, we here decide to change the structure of the Ministry of the Interior, to lose a department or a post, but you two days before it disappears, hire a few people and make a contract with him so that after he has lost his job, he will be paid four months' salary for one day's work and, if he is on sick leave, that money. Is that normal? That is exactly what I am asking you, and I hope you have the courage to make your assessment. You haven't done it so far, you only know how to spin. You're always talking about things that have nothing to do with this. Yes, there is a trial in Narva and it is not possible to predict what will eventually be decided there. Because as it turns out, people signed protocols they didn't read. The person does not speak Estonian, the protocol is in Estonian, he is read what he said. Somewhere in the interrogation, it turns out he hasn't said such a thing. That's pretty typical, by the way. I gave a concrete example of a case that took place last year. I'm interested in how honest and by what nature you are, our Minister of the Interior. I would like to know somehow whether the residence permits that were once granted to criminals from Russia have been withdrawn. You've been asked twice in this Chamber, you haven't answered. You don't have the guts to do that. It is, in fact, a disgrace that the Minister of the Interior does not dare simply to speak on certain subjects. How is that even possible?! In order for our audiences to understand what you didn't want to answer, I will read these questions. Question No 1: 'Do you think that the administration which formalises retrospective orders that impose a burden on the local government (or state) budget is in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Estonia? ' Tell me, colleague, is it really impossible to answer that question? What does that have to do with a particular matter? Who needs a minister who is afraid to answer such a question here in the Riigikogu? Next: " Make an assessment of the situation where a high official takes a person into employment that goes on to lay off three days after the person is recruited. Do you think this situation is legally correct? " Why do you keep sending me to court?! As far as I know, you're a lawyer, if I'm not mistaken. Is it really difficult to assess such a situation? Colleagues, this is not about a particular case, it is about us not getting answers to our questions. It's also that one logic works, another logic works. And it's very funny to hear the claim that I don't use phone rights. A colleague of yours, the former Minister of the Interior, used it some time ago, and later there was nothing wrong with it. In Toila's council, do you remember that? Years ago, there is a lot of these cases, I'm just talking about what people remember more about somewhere early in spring, a paedophile was arrested, and this arrest became known to the people after the two elections were already over. That's so it wouldn't affect the IRL election result, because that Hanson was a member of the IRL. Are you saying it happened by accident that you didn't use phone rights? Frankly, I'm ashamed to hear such answers. Yes, you can talk round, but anyone who listens to these questions and your answers will realize you're just scared. What are you afraid of? I don't understand. You're the Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U47	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U48	Let's move on to the next question, number 280. An inquiry has been made regarding the premium for the members of the Defence Police, according to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Please introduce the questioning of the Riigikogu Chair to Mikhail Stalnukhini, representative of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U49	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This inquiry does not require any courage from the respondent; it simply requires factual accuracy. The subject of the inquiry is the premium for the members of the Defence Police. In short, we are talking about the Ministry of the Interior sending the Ministry of Finance a draft for coordination on the remuneration of defence police officers, rescue officers and police officers, which means that the salaries of a large number of officials will rise. We were talking here last Monday that these salaries were supposed to have risen by 6% this year, or 6 to 9%. However, the draft provides for separate monthly wage rates for police officers and ordinary officials working with the Defence Police. Differentiation of wage rates on a regional basis remains valid, according to which the protection police working in Ida-Viru County receive 25% higher wages and 15% higher wages in Harju County. Consequently, we four members of the Riigikogu ask four questions. The first question is why the security police officers working in Ida-Virumaa receive a 25% wage supplement. If this is due to increased workload, why is it differentiated in different regions of Estonia for workers in the same position? If this is due to the need to work away from the capital, why can't the employees of the security police in Tartu County or Pärnumaa? The second question is why defence police officials working in Harjumaa receive a 15% salary supplement. Question 3: 'Please introduce the methodology used to calculate the salary supplement for defence police officers! ' And fourthly, we want to know whether it is true that defence police officials receive an extra fee of 15 to 25% from the Ministry of the Interior in areas where the government coalition is not in power. There's a strange story about the extra fees. Well, sometimes Ida-Virumaa is called Estonian Siberia. I would like to remind you that in the Soviet Union, those who worked far north were paid the extra money, called the severnaja, to the north. It was once the case that teachers who worked at least in Estonian schools in Narva received such an extra fee, after which it was terminated. But there has never been an extra fee for doctors, never has it been received by builders or energy engineers just because they work and live in Ida-Viru County. I would like to find out whether the system is based on geography and linked to specific locations. So we're waiting for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U50	Thank you. I now ask Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, to answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you for your questioning. I would like to answer the first two questions together. These concerned why Kapo officials working in Ida-Virumaa receive a 25% wage supplement and why the Kapo officials working in Harju County have this premium of 15%. First Ida-Viru County. Ida-Viru County, as an eastern region of the European Union and NATO, as well as Harjumaa, as a county of strategic importance for national security, is a necessary and justified premium. The aim is to ensure that the remuneration of defence police officers is in line with their responsibilities. The work carried out in these regions has a major impact on the stability of national security. For example, one of the tasks of the Eastern Department of the Defence Police Department is to prevent crimes aimed at violently changing the constitutional order and territorial integrity of the state, as well as intelligence and subversive activities against the Republic of Estonia. As we know, a large part of the population of Ida-Viru County is made up of non-Estonians who have a large number of contacts in our neighbouring country, many of whom also live in the Russian information room. Consequently, the influence of the neighbouring country in the region is extensive. There are also deep social problems in the region, people's dissatisfaction can be great, and the propaganda of a neighbouring country continues to encourage it. This distinguishes the work of the Department of the Defence Police from that of the Department of the South and West, for example. For Harjumaa, so much more that the higher remuneration paid there is due to a number of factors. For example, the structural units of the Defence Police Department in Harju County have a much higher workload and the defence police in this area also have to perform more procedurally responsible and complex tasks. This leads to the concentration of certain specific competences and skills in the centre, which is our capital Tallinn. In addition, the duties of the officials of Harjumaa include coordinating the work of the regional structural units as well as mentoring the staff. By following all these principles, wages have been differentiated for years. You will also ask about the methodology used to calculate the salary supplement for kapo officials. The differentiation of wages takes account of regional specificities, which is why higher wages are guaranteed in two regions than in other regions. The aim of the differentiation in 1999 was to pay competitive wages in all the regions of Estonia and thus give the Defence Police the opportunity to assemble a more capable official body. Finally, you are asking whether it is true that the Kapo officials receive a premium from the Ministry of the Interior in areas where the government coalition is not in power. This is an inappropriate speculation that will remain on your conscience. But to answer, I'm gonna tell you a little bit about history. The differentiation of wages is not linked to the status of the coalition as such a system is implemented from the beginning of 1999. If you look back in time, in 1999 the Estonian National Party, the Estonian Rural People Party, the Estonian Rural Union and the Estonian Pensioners and Families Party formed a coalition of government in Estonia. The incoming government was also supported by the Estonian Central Party Group. The government also included a member of the Development Party and a member of the People's Party. In the meantime, in 14 years, I mean the period from 1999 to 2013 the Estonian Reform Party, the Fatherland Union, the Moderates, the Estonian Centre Party, Res Publica, the Estonian Folk League, the Social Democratic Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Association. In addition to Edgar Savisaare and Jüri Ratas, Jüri Manor, Ivi Eenmaa, Peeter Lepp and Tõnis Palts have been the mayor of Tallinn during this period. Taking all this together, I would like to say once again that wage differentiation is the result of a much harder workload, more difficult tasks and more responsibility in certain areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U52	Minister, there is at least one question for you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U53	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I don't understand now. Võrumaa is also on the border between the European Union and its eastern neighbour, and unemployment has been constantly higher in recent years than in Ida-Viru County. The average wage there is smaller, the dissatisfaction there is only less of the population, so it is less visible. There are also channels outside the border, everything is available and there are huge contacts. I do not understand if all the conditions coincide, whether the difference is only that there are setus and Estonians, while there are 96% Russians in Ida-Viru County. Is this the only reason why Kapo gets this big bonus in Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U54	We spoke first of the crimes aimed at violently changing constitutional order and territorial integrity. We are certainly also talking about corruption crimes, which, unfortunately, are widespread in several cities in Ida-Virumaa, which fall within the competence of the Defence Police Department. As you know, since 2012, corruption crimes in the major cities of Estonia, several of which are located in Ida-Virumaa, fall within the competence of the kapo. But yes, our eastern neighbour's subversive activities have focused primarily on East Viru County. I have already stopped on these aspects. There is a significant propaganda attack and wave, which affects in particular the foreign-language population in the Russian information field. This is a very important factor that we have taken into account in the risk analysis, and it is precisely that that which is justified, in every way justified, by the additional charges paid by Ida-Viru County Defence Police officers. I think it will ensure that the teams there are assembled, that in Ida-Viru County there is a responsible job imposed on defence police officials, really smart, hardworking and skilled people. I think it's a well-founded decision. As regards your attempt to equalise the situation in Ida-Virumaa with that in Võrumaa, I can say very softly, diplomatically, that risk assessments do not support this effort.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U55	Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U56	Minister, thank you very much. Do you have any information on how many vacancies there were in the Ida-Virumaa department before the extra charges were imposed for the employees there and how the vacancies have now been filled?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U57	It is quite clear that this 25% premium received by defence police officials in Ida-Virumaa has improved the staffing of teams and encouraged the employment of capable people in this county. The premium has certainly worked well. As regards corruption crimes, for example, since the summer of 2007, the competence of defence police officials falls to several cities in this county. This also justifies the existence of a premium. In recent years, cooperation between the Defence Police and the local prosecutor's office has been effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U58	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U59	Mr. Minister of the Interior! You mentioned that some bodies in our neighbouring country are more active in their activities in Ida-Virumaa than in other Estonian regions. Do you have any information on whether specialists and money from the East have tried to influence the elections in Ida-Virumaa by supporting or training some candidates?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U60	You can read about these possible incidents from the annual books of the Defence Police, which I think give a relatively good overview of the events that have taken place over the years with sufficient balance. It is quite clear that the actions of the countries that may not be most friendly towards us will be stepped up, particularly in the run-up to the elections. We will probably see that this year, too, when local elections are coming up. We all remember very vividly what took place before the 2011 parliamentary elections. This is in some way inevitable, but it certainly means a greater workload for our security authorities, especially in the years when elections are held in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U61	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U62	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. That's the kind of thing I want to ask you. Why do you think that I would emphasise the possibilities of Eastern propaganda, that the possibilities of Ida-Viru County are greater than in other countries of Estonia, such as the capital city or Saaremaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U63	We have not seen very strong propaganda coming from the east in Saaremaa. We simply have not noticed this, and no risk analysis has brought it out. These channels will certainly extend to Tallinn and these ideas will be actively disseminated in our capital city. But Ida-Viru County's exposure to this propaganda is still much more authentic. This we have known for years that the impact of Estonian public information providers, public information tools in this region , I am talking primarily about the foreign-language population is considerably less than that of information and propaganda coming from Russia. This is simply an inevitable fact that we must consider. This has also been seen as a result of several surveys carried out in this county, when inherited, which information channels are used by Russian-speaking residents of the cities and other settlements in that county. Of course, the task of the Estonian state is to bring as much objective information as possible to these people, but in fact, each person decides for himself what information he considers to be true, which information is less truthful. But there is certainly work to be done among the non-speaking population.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U64	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U65	Mr President! Last Monday, I was talking about a witch-brain here, how they come up with all kinds of myths, and then they repeat them, eyes squared, and they start to believe that there is something like this. For God's sake, why are Russian channels viewed in Tallinn or Ida-Viru County? You really don't understand that? Do you think a person is going to look at a channel where he doesn't understand a word and where there are no subtitles, there's no translation? The Russian-speaking population is more than 30%, but the fingers of one hand may be enough to count all the programmes that are broadcast in Russian on Estonia's own channels. Do you want to stop watching TV at all if you don't do anything about it yourself? You're not working in that direction at all! Please make a proper Estonian channel that will produce Russian-speaking programmes for those who live here in Estonia! Or are you waiting for everyone to learn 100% Estonian? You guys are gonna tell us this story about foreign channels and all that. Look, I'm watching Russian channels, I have a fantastic choice. There's the first channel that's an official channel, I'm listening to this official position. It's kind of like looking at ETV, what the Minister said about the crisis, and how nice we really are. There's an ORT TV I watch every night. I'm watching the news from there, but it's already a positional channel, and I don't think you know about it. You have no idea what the Russians are looking at. There is an NTV, which is mostly critical, and there is a rather critical REN TV. Do you think everyone in there is saying the same thing? It's fascinating to see the Communists on the one hand, the Liberals on the other, the Jedinaya Rossija on the right. And you can watch it every day. People are arguing, there is no one position that is being pushed into your head! Look, listen and think about who's right! That is why they are being looked at, as different views are being put forward, and one of them is being chosen. But that's it. As long as integration in Estonia does not succeed, you are talking about abusive Russian television. But integration is also greatly hindered by such a speech as the Minister of the Interior, who is currently answering questions, reported. You see, in 1999, the Central Party Minister for the Interior spoke about the administrative reform that was to take place in the country. Imagine, the administrative reform has been going on for at least 15 years, but nothing is happening. And all of a sudden, I was wondering why there have been some changes in every region, but Narva stands as she stood. There's nothing going on. I've been asking how Narva gets there are integration opportunities. There are different development opportunities for Vaivara, Narva-Jõesuu. The answer has been that Narva is a red city, it is within its borders, it must not be allowed to develop further. Listen, if that's how you feel about people, what do you want in return? We are influenced by television, we are influenced by prices in stores, we are affected by the way you interact with us. Now, to this argument, the kapo surcharges help to combat corruption. I don't know how to tell you this, but let's look at the publications of the Yearbook Crime in Estonia for years. In 2006, the number of corruption offences detected by the ordinary police was 511, in 2005 it was 477, in 2004 439. From 2004 to 2006, this figure increased and means that the police worked, searched and found it. Of course, there are no 12,000 corruption cases that Pihl was talking about around that time, but still. Since 2007, the CPO started dealing with corruption. In the same year, the number of corruption crimes detected was 278. The next year, in 2008, it slightly increased to 326. But the figures for 2009, 2010 and 2011 are 203, 223 and 196 respectively. Damn it, all the time you talk about corruption, corruption, corruption! It was your election lecture in 2003. You'll be alive as long as you fight corruption. And if it doesn't exist, you're just making it up. You need people to be afraid of it. Actually, corrupt crime is, but it's within such a framework that it's not a disaster. And now you're making such inventions that you're making the defense police, who really should be dealing with national security, go through the hardware store accounts. Right now, I'm thinking about the story of a former deputy mayor of Narva. The man was arrested, held for almost two weeks in a cell, and made it conditional on you signing a statement that you're leaving the deputy mayor's office, so you can get out. And he signed it. Right now, in court, the whole charge he's being charged is that he got a discount at a Christmas store, just like other thousands of people did. I've told you this story many times. The next question, however, is where corruption really exists. We're trying to figure out why our Home Secretary, who's so good at talking, doesn't do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U66	Thank you. I have a request that we do not swear in this Riigikogu speech chair and call on the horns to help. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U67	Let's move on to the next question, which is the fourth one today, number 285. This is an inquiry into the statistics on corruption crimes of the Police and Border Guard Board, according to Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher. I would like to ask Mikhail Stalnukhin to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu in order to introduce the questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the Annual Books of Crime in Estonia 2010 and Crime in Estonia 2011 prepared by the Criminal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, the number of corruption crimes committed by the police and Border Guard Board employees has increased both in absolute numbers and in percentage terms. In 2010 and 2011 employees of the Police and Border Guard Board committed 35 and 47 corruption offences, representing 13% and 24% of the total number of corruption offences respectively. As a result, we have the following questions for you, Mr Minister. First of all: 'How do you explain that every fourth corruption crime in Estonia in 2011 was an employee of the Police and Border Guard Board that you led? ' And there are two more questions we ask you to answer from this remote control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U69	Thank you. Mr. Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U70	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you for your inquiry. I have been asked three questions concerning the so-called corruption crime statistics of the Police and Border Guard Board. First of all, this is, unfortunately, your interpretation of the alleged number of corruption crimes committed by police and border guards. I'm happy to explain what these yearbook figures mean, what's behind them. Statistics show that 29 crimes were registered in 2010, 47 crimes related to the Police and Border Guard Board in 2011. For the sake of clarity, it is important to note that these figures also include crimes related to abuse of power, which are covered by § 291 of the Penal Code. Such acts, although covered by professional offences, consist of the unlawful use of a weapon, a special instrument, or violence by a person who has carried out an official task. These cases are not normally considered as corruption offences. Another aspect must be borne in mind: this statistical indicator also reflects the possible crimes that the staff of this institution did not commit. For example, if a police officer was bribed not to start an offence procedure, but this bribe was not accepted, this is reflected in the statistics in the row of the Police and Border Guard Board. When we withdraw such cases, 13 of the so-called classic corruption crimes involved police and border guards officials in 2011 were involved in bribery or bribery. In addition, two misappropriations, one fraud and one criminal offence involving professional counterfeiting were recorded. In 2010, eight bribes or bribery were registered and one take-off took place. It is therefore a matter of very clear interpretation. We have discussed and debated many times in this Chamber whether the fact that the Police and Border Guard Board is able to detect cases of corruption as a result of internal control or the good work of another institution is good or bad. Is it good or bad that three judges were brought to light in the judicial system of the Republic of Estonia in one year? I think it's a good thing. This shows the ability of the state to face serious corruption cases as well, and certainly all the offences committed in the legal system and in the law enforcement system itself. It is likely that no other Eastern or Central European country has such revelations; perhaps any of the offences committed by the judge, as well as serious cases of corruption, cannot be brought to light. Do we really believe that there are no problems with the law enforcement system in these countries? I think it's extremely unlikely. If there are no such cases in the developing country, which has only become independent 20 years ago, it actually shows that it is not able to detect corruption in the law enforcement system, and this shows the weakness of the country. Thus, when we had 13 cases in 2011, it also shows that the system is capable of cleaning itself. Of course, more can always be done, but revealing itself is a sign of strength and shows that the internal control system is better put to work. In this sense, a step forward has certainly been taken over the last two years. You are also asking whether the increase in corruption crimes in the police is justified by my work style and my political views. As I said, it is certainly a big plus that the country is also able to detect corruption in the law enforcement system. When it comes to an offender, such as a state thief or a corrupt policeman, a judge or a prosecutor, this is one of the worst things that could be. We must therefore make every effort to prevent such individuals from working in our law enforcement system. We also know that the developed and highly developed countries are not finally free of it. A number of superpowers have experienced the presence of intelligence agents from another country in one security facility or another for decades. In the legal systems of developed countries, too, there are so-called civil servants who violate the duty of honesty, and Estonia is not yet clean of it. We need to take further steps in this regard, but compared to the situation we come from, we can say that we have made quite good progress. Let us look at our position in this very Transparency International chart of perception of corruption. This index assesses the existence of corruption in society, both public and private. This table shows that we have still moved forward faster than other countries of Eastern and Central Europe with our own destiny. I would also like to point out that, if we look at the number of corruption crimes in 2011, we do not yet have data on the 2012 analysis, then the overall number of corruption offences is more or less the same as in 2010. And in my opinion, it is not right to compare the total number of corruption offences, but, above all, the number of serious corruption cases. There are several categories of corruption offences, there are lighter cases and more serious cases, and we can still compare with one another. If we put together all the elements of corruption crime that are classic in terms of corruption crimes, and we start comparing the total number of years between the respected questioners in part, I do not think this is a good overall picture. We must, above all, focus on serious cases of hidden corruption and compare these figures with one another, so we can see whether our capacity is increasing, whether we can talk about the state being better able to detect corruption. Once again, I will talk about the steps we have taken to curb corruption. Since 10 October 2011, we have extended the investigative powers of the Defence Police. Higher state officials and the leaders of the local governments of Tallinn, Tartu, Narva, Pärnu, Kohtla-Järve and Jõhvi, as well as members of the board of directors of a public, state-owned or state-established legal person, will remain in the field of defence police research, if their potential corrupt activities pose a threat to the security of the state. As I have said before from this remote control, this competence is to be extended because there are still some positions that are not covered, and there is a potential threat to national security. The draft is being prepared. In 2012, we restored the Central Criminal Police in substance. In addition to restoring identity, we have created two separate entities: the Office for the Recovery and Confiscation of Crimes and the Bureau for Corruption Crimes. These central units have been formed precisely to identify serious hidden crimes, including the damage caused by corruption crimes and the criminal proceeds of crime, throughout Estonia. As far as officials are concerned, so much can be said that the Office for Corruption Crimes has been enlarged this year and total EUR 1.4 million has been allocated by 2013 to improve the procedural capacity of the Central Criminal Police. Question 3: 'What measures are you planning to reduce the number of corruption crimes at the Police and Border Guard Board? ' As I said, an important measure is an effective internal control system. This includes operational control and sectoral management. The responsibility and day-to-day control of managers must also ensure that the organisation functions legally. In order to raise awareness of the risk of corruption, it is also important for specialists and experts from the Central Criminal Police and the Defence Police to be able to make organisations aware of the risks of corruption through various trainings and other mentoring, as well as to provide codes of conduct on how to implement the early detection mechanism and shape attitudes that prevent corruption.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U71	Thank you. You have at least one question. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U72	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The inquiry, of course, has more to do with corruption crimes in the Police and Border Guard Board than with local government leaders. But I want to come back to the fact that you started one of your answers with such an interesting introduction that you spoke about so-called statistics. Colleagues use the statistics of the Yearbook drawn up by the Criminal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice in their enquiries and I wondered if there are different statistical data in Estonia. It turns out that the Ministry of Justice has statistics and the Ministry of the Interior, and maybe next it turns out that every minister has his own statistics. I would like some clarification on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U73	The Ministry responsible for criminal policy in Estonia is the Ministry of Justice and the compiler of relevant statistics, and its official author is also the Ministry of Justice. I'm sure you're using the right yearbooks and the right statistics. It is simply referred to in the first paragraph of your inquiry that these data reflect the number of corruption crimes committed by police and border guards. My explanation was based on the fact that, first of all, this statistical indicator also contains cases of exaggeration of power which are not considered classic corruption crimes. Secondly, this statistics also reflect cases where a police officer has been bribed, but this has not been accepted. So the police officer hasn't committed a corruption crime, but statistically it's a case on this line. That's why I explained the Police and Border Guard Board line in the yearbooks that you refer to in 'Crime in Estonia 2010' and 'Crime in Estonia 2011'.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U74	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U75	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President! Allow me briefly to introduce you to some figures. Just like our audiences, you'll hear the same thing in this hall. Everything's fine in this department, it's bad in the municipalities. I believe more in the Yearbook of the Ministry of Justice 'Crimination in Estonia' and I will introduce it to you as well. Crime in Estonia 2009: the number of corruption offences registered was 203, including police 35, local authorities 33, technical inspection 33, state agencies 27, other 23, legal persons 20, prisons 15, schools 12 and court 1. Thus, the state authorities, the police, the roadworthiness test, the prisons and the court total 111 or 54.7%. The proportion of local governments is 16%, i.e. there are 3.5 times less corruption crimes than there are in public authorities whose actions you never hear of. 'Crimination in Estonia 2010': total number of recorded corruption crimes 223, including police 29, local authorities 36, legal persons (including SA, RMK and KIK) 32, unspecified 26, technical inspection 26, defence forces 23, ministries and county governments 20, Road Administration 8, prisons 11, other 6, non-profit institutions 5 and court 1. Thus, state agencies, i.e. police plus technologists, plus defence forces, plus ministries and county governments, plus the Road Administration, the prison and court total 118 or 52.9%. Local authorities, on the other hand, have 16%, i.e. 3.25 times less corruption than public authorities. Yearbook Crime in Estonia 2011 which is the last, no 2012 overview yet: number of corruption offences registered 196, including Police and Border Guard 47, local authorities 36, technical inspection 25, other legal person 24, ministries and other government agencies 22, Road Administration 10, prison 8, other 5, non-profit institutions 2 and part of the box is "not specified." So, the state agencies, the Police and Border Guard Board plus the technical inspection, plus the ministries, plus the Road Administration, plus the prisons 112 or 57.1%. The share of local governments is 18.4%. The difference is about three times. This is the real situation, and it's no matter how nice it is to talk on the remote, it doesn't change anything. Firstly, since the kapo has started dealing with corruption crimes in place of the ordinary police, there have been far fewer cases detected. In some years, there have been 2.5 times less. Secondly, there are six specific municipalities, all of which in 2007 were headed by the Centre Party. It's a goal, it's a direction, it's a purpose. Everything makes sense. Unfortunately, many things are being neglected in the rest of the area. That's my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U76	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U77	Good fellows! After the hammer hit, please register for those members of the Riigikogu who wish to speak in a free microphone. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U78	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I had another really stupid story on paper, but I think there's been so much negative talk that I'd better tell you something good. I want to tell you that a book came up last week. I've been working on it for almost two years. If you believe my time notes, it took a thousand hours and a half to work. Now, however, I am very happy to announce that one day before Mother's Day, the Russian-Estonian Dictionary of Teaching was published, which contains 20,500 articles. In this context, I would like to tell you that this book makes it clear why things are as bad as they are when you learn Estonian among other people. If there were anyone here who would be more or less proficient, such as Mart Nutt, my old colleague from the ninth composition of the Riigikogu, and I would ask what it takes to learn the lexic, the Estonian words, then as his experienced person, I would certainly be satisfied that if it was a wailing word, then there are several forms that need to be known: a nameable, innate, distributive, subversive short form. And some words also have plural forms that need to be known separately. However, when it comes to verbs, it is the right horrible story to know nine forms to use words correctly. Why did I even start making that dictionary? Because when I took a list of Russian-Estonian glossaries from the catalogue of the National Library about two years ago, I wanted to put in my textbook references to works where all these word forms are available and ordered all 34 dictionaries to work here, then I discovered that there were 33 of them, where for each word there is only a nameable or a ma-infinitive. Thus, if a person has wanted to study Estonian properly in the last 30 years, he simply has not had this opportunity. One dictionary is where all the forms are written, but it has been issued with a small print and that in Narva. So it's localized, designed for our language courses. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the next time you are asked why the Russians have such a poor knowledge of the Estonian language and why they do not learn well enough, you can answer even if there has been no good dictionary. At least it wasn't until last week's Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U79	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Vladimir Velmani!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, For the third time in this Chamber, I am going to talk about something that hurts my heart and which I think is very serious. There has been no substantive answer from Minister Juhan Parts to these questions. We are talking about new high-speed trains that will be tested by Estonian Railway in the coming days. The problem is that these new trains, these good and beautiful trains, which must start driving at an average speed of about 140 km per hour, are already purchased. Currently, the average speed of Estonian Railway trains is up to 70 to 100 km per hour. At the same time, nothing has been done to buy software to help arrange rescues at what speed an accident will occur. The rescue team, formed by Estonian Railways, does not have the necessary cranes, infrastructure, parallel roads Haven't they really been built? If something happens in the sky would give it doesn't happen, but if it does, Estonian Railway will not be ready to remove trains in an accident quickly. They may fall on the cap or otherwise close the road. Many railway workers told me about this problem. Today, members of the local governments and regional policy support group were invited to Pääsküla's depot, but unfortunately this meeting was scheduled for the time when the permanent committees were still working, so I did not get there. But I would like to point out once again that the Estonian Railways are not ready to serve these trains properly, and I can only repeat the words of our anthem: 'May God guard you, my beloved Fatherland! " It seems that there is no one but God to rely on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-18_U81	Thank you. No more calls, no more free microphones. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 5.25 p.m.
