ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the first working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U2	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, from this remote control to those who have not yet been personally greeted, a good start to the new political season! In addition, I have to hand over to the Riigikogu the draft law amending the Traffic Act, by which we want to make three amendments to the Traffic Act, all of which concern paid parking zones in local governments. The three amendments are as follows: Firstly, we want drivers with reduced mobility or those accompanying them to be allowed to park in private parks free of charge. Secondly, we foresee 15 minutes of free parking in private parking facilities. Thirdly, we want to give local authorities the right to impose additional requirements on private parking in the territory of the local government unit for the organisation of paid parking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U3	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. Good fellows, we'll do a presence check. 75 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 26. There is one clarification on today's agenda. During the debate on the first item, the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rait Maruste, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will make a presentation and Marko Pomerants, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U4	Let's start working on the items on today's agenda. We will discuss the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 23. The proposal concerns the notification and verification of the surveillance operation. Good fellows! Allow me, before going to the proceedings, to brief you on the procedure for dealing with this item. First of all, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder's report, which lasts up to 20 minutes. A presentation by Mr Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will follow, which will also last for up to 20 minutes, followed by a presentation by Mr Marko Pomerants, President of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which will also be up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. After that there will be a round of negotiations. Members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups may speak. The negotiations shall be concluded and the President shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. A majority of votes in favour are required for the adoption of the proposal. Indrek Tederi, Chancellor of Justice of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! I am grateful that the honourable Riigikogu in 2011 accepted my proposal No 12. The provisions of the relevant laws have also been amended. Once again, I'm grateful. However, the Chancellor of Justice must rely on the Constitution; he must align with the principles and provisions of the Constitution. Unfortunately, there has also been the adoption of a law that is contrary to the Constitution. This contradiction has been analysed very thoroughly in my proposal. So I am not going to repeat everything again, just pointing out important principles. In particular, § 251 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides in paragraph 2: 'Surveillance operations which expire before 1 January 2013 shall not be subject to the provisions of § 12613 (3), second sentence and (4) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. " In short, regular and on the initiative of the State itself judicial review of the follow-up to intelligence activities will only start in 2013 for surveillance activities that will end, not earlier. Simplified, this means that those affected may never know about surveillance activities that have been completed before. Moreover, there is no effective control of such non-communications outside the executive power. Such a law is probably very pragmatic, but it is not constitutional. If a simple law is tried here, then there must be a constitution, a simple law does not abolish the Constitution. I declare the first sentence of § 44 (3) of the Constitution: 'The Estonian citizen has the right to know about him in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Act, in state institutions and local governments and in the archives of the state and local governments. ' I stress that the processing of personal data collected by a secret operation of the State will result in a lasting and very intense interference with the fundamental rights of the person. If a person becomes aware at any time of a surveillance operation against him or her, he or she shall have the opportunity to appeal to the courts for the protection of his or her rights in order to verify the substantive legality of the surveillance activity. If a person is not aware of a secret operation, he or she does not have such an effective means of defending his or her rights. I explained already in 2011 that I believe that the obligation to inform the surveillance operation afterwards is a requirement under § 44 (3) of the Constitution in conjunction with § 13, 14 and 15. This is justified by the secret nature of surveillance activities. In the case of information, it is generally a reasonable solution that a person who wishes to have access to the information he or she collects should himself or herself contact the State. With regard to the personal data collected secretly, the Riigikogu made provision in 2004 for an active obligation to inform the state. In accordance with § 44 of the Constitution, the person concerned may not be informed or the information may be deferred. In this case, however, independent and impartial control of the activities of the executive must be ensured on behalf of the so-called person. As of the beginning of this year, new surveillance activities are subject to the constitutional review. However, § 251 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure precludes regular judicial review of the postponement of notification of previous surveillance activities. Therefore, as in practice before the amendments, a situation is possible where the person concerned is not informed at all only on the basis of an assessment by the executive authority. In other words, the right of access to the data collected by him under Paragraph 44 (3) of the Constitution is not exercised. I may be contradicted by the fact that a person who is not informed of a secret act or whose notification is postponed is theoretically able to appeal to the courts to check that the data is not disclosed, rather 'does not confirm or refute the existence of intelligence'. In other words, a person should go to court not to challenge an infringement of his or her rights, but to find out whether there have been any acts that could have infringed his or her rights. This would not be a judicial remedy in the normal sense, but an additional barrier to the actual realisation of the constitutional right. Finally, I note that, as we know, the Estonian Constitution entered into force on 3 July 1992 and not on 1 January 2013. The Constitution must be observed! It's a principle. The law must therefore be brought into line with the Constitution. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U6	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Just before the summer, June 17th. a the Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, proposed to the Riigikogu that § 251 of the Act implementing the Code of Criminal Procedure be brought into line with the Constitution. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs heard the recitals and explanations of the Chancellor of Justice and his deputy advisors Nele Parrest and Hent Kalmo at its meeting on Monday 9 September this week, where the Chancellor of Justice and his team answered questions from the members of the committee. The Constitutional Commission took its decision the following day, at its meeting on 10 September, after obtaining further information. The decision was not to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. The Chancellor of Justice pointed out that on 17 May 2011 he concluded that § 121 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, § 17 of the Code of Surveillance Act and § 12615 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which entered into force on 1 January 2012, were incompatible with the Constitution, as he did not provide for effective and systematic control of the postponement of the notification of a surveillance operation, which could result in a discretion-based decision not to inform the person concerned about the surveillance operation at all. The Riigikogu agreed to this proposal with its decision of 2 June 2011. Several changes were made to the realisation of proposal No 12. As a whole, this was a major step towards better monitoring of surveillance activities compared to the previous situation. The new notification procedure included an obligation for the prosecutor's office to request both a time limit and an open-ended authorisation from the investigating judge to postpone the notification of the surveillance operation. Together with the new comprehensive regulation of surveillance activities, it entered into force. a On 1 January, the implementing provision of § 251 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which provided that the judicial review of notification and postponement of surveillance operations was not valid in cases where the surveillance operation ended before 1 January 2013. The Chancellor of Justice considered that this situation was not in accordance with the Constitution and did not satisfy him. The Chancellor of Justice is essentially entitled to the fact that, as from 1 July 2004, the legislator has consistently provided for an obligation to notify without delay. However, due in part to the lack of clarity or inconsistency of information regulation, the relevant law enforcement authorities (police and prosecutor's office) failed to fulfil their obligations in the period 2004-2013. This is unfortunate and inappropriate behaviour to the rule of law. Although, by way of exception, even on the basis of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, non-communication is possible and the Chancellor of Justice acknowledges this. However, and this is important, we have a new procedure in force which provides for information and its impartial judicial review. The problem is whether this new regime or any transitional regulation should have been applied retroactively to operations which ended before 1 January 2013. The Chancellor of Justice felt that this should have been done, and the current situation is in conflict with the Constitution. He has put forward his arguments on this very long and thorough. By sticking to purely legal, the Chancellor of Justice can be accepted, and his arguments seem convincing. However, the Constitutional Commission is neither the Constitutional Court nor the Office of the Chancellor of Justice. As a legislative body, it must take into account not only legal issues but also the feasibility of the proposal and its importance in the wider protection of constitutional order and rights and freedoms. In other words, it must also assess its feasibility and feasibility. In this regard, I would like to highlight the following. Firstly, the proposal concerns a situation that is now in the past, it concerns the introduction of regulation ex post. Legal provisions may, in principle, be introduced retroactively, but do not have to. There must be compelling reasons for such a move and it must be reasonable. Secondly, around 50000 different levels of surveillance operations were carried out between 2006 and 2012. It is obvious that all their sorting would result in an exceptionally high administrative burden on the bodies concerned, especially given that there is no electronic processing mechanism for that period and this should be done "manually." I will explain that the appropriate procurement has been announced by the Centre for Registers and Information Systems and is carried out by Nortal. It's on. A large, even extraordinary administrative burden would draw the attention of the relevant bodies, i.e. the police, the prosecutor's office and the court, to their everyday activities, the current tasks could be sidelined and they would have less opportunity to pay attention to their constitutional activities, including ensuring respect for rights and freedoms. In view of the above, we do not consider that there is a proportionate balance between the objective pursued, which is a good, and the means of applying for it and the measures. However, the proportionality of the objective pursued and the means to be implemented is an essential condition for any legal regulation. Finally, I will make two further arguments. It is important to note that persons with a reasonable suspicion that they are the subject of surveillance measures can contact the relevant bodies and request information. In other words, the so-called 'dispositivity' principle applies. So the door isn't completely closed. The argument that the Chancellor of Justice has proposed that the relevant authorities should be given an active duty to inform them afterwards is also considered. At the same time, the Constitution says that everyone has the right to information. However, this option is guaranteed, as anyone can, in case of doubt, turn to the relevant public body and get a reply from it. Further, the legislator and the executive should continue to pay more attention to compliance with the established arrangements, in particular the granting of surveillance measures in the so-called archives, the status and use of which are not subject to any legal regulation or regime. That is what we should pay attention to. We hope in this for effective cooperation with the Data Protection Inspectorate. An intensive approach to this issue seems to be a much more effective instrument for further protection of rights and freedoms. In the light of these arguments, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that it did not support the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U8	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U9	Dear waitress, I listened to you very carefully. Can you state clearly whether the Chancellor of Justice's proposal is not feasible or not fit for purpose? If this is not feasible, what has been announced as a public procurement for its realisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U10	I'll start at the end. The public procurement has not been announced for the realisation of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal would, in our opinion, result in a very high administrative burden, because at the moment, as I was trying to clarify it, there is no relevant and modern record of surveillance activities that would allow the database to be processed and sorted out, for example, of major barriers. Most of the operations are made up of a variety of less intensive streaks, or speech distinctions, and other such things. But all of this has to be done by hand right now. The legal instrument we have put in place would largely divert law enforcement authorities from their daily work and therefore we considered it impractical. There are more important things that need to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U11	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U12	Thank you. Dear waitress, You spoke a lot in your report about whether it is appropriate to implement this amendment or whether it is feasible or not, but you did not answer the most important question in my opinion. The argument of the Chancellor of Justice is that the law in question is contrary to the Constitution. In your report, you said that the Chancellor of Justice's statements are legally convincing. The question is whether or not this law is compatible with the Constitution. Can you answer that specifically?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U13	Consistency with the Constitution may vary from one degree to another, as may conflict with different degrees. The Chancellor of Justice has argued his point of view from a single point of view and has found that the current regulation is incompatible with the Constitution. We also consider that this is not consistent, but its non-coherence rate is very low and does not deserve to take separate legislative measures to oblige the relevant bodies to deal with the information that has already taken place. I mean, this action is turned into the past, and we don't think it's useful. Therefore, there is no such 'no' or 'yes' response here, but there are certain considerations as to rationality. This argument of rationality has also been taken into account in a number of other cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U14	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Didn't you discuss building a church in the middle of a village in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? The Chancellor of Justice does not say in advance to the legislator how this situation should be regulated; he speaks of § 44 of the Constitution concerning the obligation to issue information at the request of a citizen. Didn't you discuss taking one step back and obliging the executive to apply the same provisions to the surveillance procedures that took place before 2013 when the citizen turns to them? The court would reconsider the reasons for not knowing, but only on the individual request of the citizen.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U16	Thank you! I mean, that's a possibility right now. Anyone who feels that he has been the subject of surveillance measures can contact the relevant body, either the prosecutor's office or the police, to find out whether he has been the subject of surveillance measures. There's a chance. We are now talking about whether to put an active commitment on the part of the prosecutor's office to actively report on the measures taken on its own initiative. This obligation will apply prospectively under the new regulation. We did not consider it appropriate to impose such an obligation afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U17	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You spoke in your report about the arguments for and against the Chancellor of Justice. There were several objections here, they were both expediency and realism, but I can't think of half the arguments. What were the arguments in favour that you discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U19	We asked the Chancellor of Justice in the Commission how he felt that this proposal should be realised. I must say that we did not get very far in this debate. The Chancellor of Justice did not have a clear vision of how this proposal could be realised. We discussed, for example, whether it would be possible to divide the latches into intense and less intensive, but in order to do so, all these 50,000 cases should be scrapped. Another option is to introduce some kind of time limit, but then the question arises, for example, which is why it is limited to two or three years. So it's very difficult to carry out. In view of the fact that our respected law enforcement authorities do not suffer from unemployment, we believe that their administrative burden, if it were to be dealt with retroactively, would be excessive.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U20	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U21	Thank you. Good waitress! If a person doesn't know he's been followed, how can he ask about it? You say he can ask if he wants to know. Yet he has the so-called fundamental right to know when it has been done. Is this, however, an argument that this is difficult to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U22	For example, if you suspect that you have been the object of the pursuit, you will request it and you will be answered. It's as simple as that. But if there was any basis for this request, it's only clear from the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U23	Good fellows! Let me remind you that within this item, a member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. This is the result of our Home and Working Procedures Act. Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U24	Hello, Mr President-in-Office, good Chancellor of Justice and colleagues. The same question as before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was put to the Committee on Legal Affairs, and the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed it this week at its Monday session. Mr Rait Maruste was very thorough in his presentation. He pointed out all aspects that were highlighted by the Chancellor of Justice and which could be considered in this debate. Let me be clear that the Committee on Legal Affairs reached the same decision as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as early as Monday. This decision was not to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Let me say a few words for your comment. Just as the round of questions and answers came out here, there cannot be a black and white view in this story from the point of view of constitutionality. Throughout the debate, there were about such breaks that there might not be, regulation could be more perfect and there should be something else. Some of us attended the formal session of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court yesterday. The term of office of Märt Rask, nine years of dignified office ended and the new President of the Supreme Court will be in office from tomorrow. I think that we will find clarity on this particular issue, and then we will see whether or not there is something else to be done. Once again, I would like to remind my fellow Members that since 1 January 2013, we have all contributed so that the situation is unambiguously and clearly constitutional. On the basis of my experience from 2004-2013, I say that the state's procedures for informing and conducting surveillance operations are working, I have received such a letter, and nothing changed in my life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U25	Good waitress, thank you! You have questions. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U26	Dear waitress, The Chancellor of Justice said quite clearly that this problem had arisen because in eight years neither the surveillance bodies nor the prosecutor's office complied with the law. As far as you know, has anyone been punished for this in our rule of law? Should it be punished if the bodies put in place to protect the right do not comply with the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U27	Thanks! I would not dare to remain in the same position as the Chancellor of Justice in relation to the failure to comply with the law in the previous period. Notification as such is an obligation arising from the law and I think that law enforcement authorities have fulfilled it in the best possible way. With regard specifically to your question of whether anyone has been punished, I do not have any information on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U28	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The previous waitress admitted that the Constitution's cripplement was, but, true, not very intense. This cannot be eliminated because the administrative burden is increasing and the costs are increasing in this respect. Have we not come to the absurd situation that we are fulfilling the Constitution to the extent that the wallet allows?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U30	Thanks! We have begun to comply with the Constitution on this particular issue, whether or not it imposes an additional burden on the wallet. As far as the 'past view' is concerned, the answer can be as it has already been said in this debate: it may not be. But we'll find out.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U31	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U32	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Following a person is generally a very unpleasant subject, and from a human point of view, no one likes it. However, in many cases, it is not because of its own actions, but because of its own work or because of its familiarity. We believe that, regardless of the circumstances, a person has a right to know if he has been followed and what information has been gathered about him. The obligation to notify surveillance activities arises both from the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and from the legislation of the European Union. I repeat, the new regulation on delaying notification of the surveillance operation entered into force, as we know, on 1 January s. a. The new regime includes the obligation for the prosecutor's office to apply for a temporary or indefinite authorisation to defer notification of a surveillance operation from the investigating judge, earlier by the prosecutor's office. I would also like to remind you that, together with the full regulation of surveillance activities, the implementing provision also entered into force from January. The effect of this does not extend the judicial review to those cases of postponement of notification of the surveillance operation where the authorisation for the surveillance operation ended before that January day. The Chancellor of Justice claims that it is precisely the lack of impartial control of the failure to notify surveillance activities before that date that the prosecutor's office itself has checked, if any, that it is contrary to the Constitution. There is no doubt that, as has been said repeatedly here, this ex post notification will result in a much higher workload. The Estonian Centre Party considers that the protection of people's fundamental rights is more important than the increasing administrative burden. We therefore support the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. We support that impartial supervision, judicial review also be carried out on the notification of surveillance activities whose authorisation ended before 1 January 2013. I would also stress that we do not support the legitimisation of the offence; we do not consider it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U33	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us now begin the preparation of the vote. Dear colleagues, I shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Please take a stand and vote. 28 votes to 35 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal was not supported. We have finished processing the first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U34	Let's move on to the second item. The first reading of the draft Act amending the Advertising Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group begins. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Yana Toomi, member of the Group of the Estonian Central Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U35	Ladies and gentlemen, This is a bill that the Central Party Group would like to amend the advertising law and limit the advertising of energy drinks intended for children. I believe that most of the people in this Chamber are well aware of this issue, as it has also given rise to a strong media response. I'm not going to be very specific about the bill, it's been distributed to your desks. In my report, I will try to draw on the questions that were raised in the Commission, and also on those that I believe may be being asked to put in the Chamber today. In short, I will try to answer these questions immediately. They always ask what this energy drink is. That's what we have defined right now in the first paragraph. It should be stressed that energy and sports are not the same thing. The energy drink has a more pleasant taste, and that is why children like it more. The energy drink does not give any energy, it has been scientifically studied and justified, but it simply helps to stay awake for a while, not to fall asleep. Sports drinks contain salt and are not harmful, energy drinks are. Our proposal is to ban advertising intended for children. The promotion of energy drinks should not take place in a building or in a building, a cinema, a museum or a showhouse, as well as in publications intended primarily for children. These drinks should not be advertised mainly at children's events or in TV and radio programmes until 9:00 p.m. Energy drinks should not be advertised with outdoor advertising. It is very important that energy drink advertising should not represent a role or character known primarily for children through a film, show or event, nor should energy drinks be awarded as prizes or otherwise promoted at events intended for children. Since a study has just been completed by the Institute for Health Development, which includes energy drinks, I will show you a few slides to make it clear. Energy drinks usually contain caffeine and other components. In fact, there are two active substances in energy drinks that have an effect: caffeine and sugar. There's a very high dose of both. The main health risks associated with energy drinks are: effects on the heart and blood vessels, increased heart rate, arrhythmias, increased blood pressure, effects on the central nervous system, anxiety, irritability, sleep disturbances, effects on the gastrointestinal system, reflux disease, heartburn, increased urine output, obesity, hyperglycaemia, tooth erosion. I would point out that the Commission mentioned that energy drinks can actually be consumed in moderate amounts, but in order to do so, the child must be aware of his or her medical condition. Even grown-ups aren't always aware of that, let alone children. Caffeine is the main substance that works in these drinks and is also the main cause of side effects. These side effects are listed here: irritability, nervousness, feeling anxious, restlessness, insomnia, sleep disorder, hallucinations, stress state, headache, loss of appetite, diarrhoea, nausea, shaking hands, blood circulation disorders and arrhythmia. Now one argument for those who say that the next step is to ban chocolate, cola drinks and coffee. Look at the caffeine content. Coffee drinks contain three times less caffeine than energy drinks. In order for a child to reach a toxic limit, a large amount of coke needs to be drunk. In the case of energy drinks, two cans are enough for some children to get into hospital beds. The Institute for Health Development has also made recommendations. Among other things, there was a recommendation that more information should be done. For example, the study revealed (I do not say this percentage because I do not have such permission) that almost half of the children who drink energy drinks drink them immediately after practice on the advice of their coach. That means our people don't know much about this. We believe that such a restriction on advertising would certainly be a major step towards making it clear to people what an energy drink is and how to deal with it. The National Institute for Health Development recommends that consideration be given to options for regulating promotion, outlets, age, marketing and labelling of energy drinks in general or at the level of children's institutions. Advertising of energy drinks should not be intended for minors. I am very pleased that the Institute for Health Development agrees with us. I hope that the grand hall of the Riigikogu will also support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U36	Thank you. Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are questions. Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! You can't tell me what the world practice is when it comes to promoting energy drinks, can you? Are there any examples of Europe or others of how this is being done?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U38	There are very different practices here. For example, in Latvia's Seina, a draft has passed at first reading, according not only to limit the advertising of energy drinks, but to ban the sale of these drinks to minors. However, I have heard that Brussels was not enthusiastic about this. Life will show. In Sweden, this issue is currently up in Parliament, and they, too, are probably banning this advertising. There are countries, such as Finland, where energy drinks are sold in separate counters, and there are very many countries where energy drinks are restricted, these drinks are not sold between cans such as lemonade and coca cola, and it must be written on the jar that they are high in caffeine and taurine and harmful to children and pregnant women. By the way, there is also a point in our draft that energy drink advertising must contain a warning text: 'High caffeine and taurine levels. Not recommended for children, pregnant or breast-feeding women. '
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U39	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U40	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! This is certainly a very important issue that the legislator should address. But in many European countries, the components of these same energy drinks have recently become popular, as in some countries such restrictions have already been imposed. It's called a slap among the young. You can make your own energy drink out of any lemonade, cocoon, or other beverage, adding ten or how many grams of that spanking. Do you not think that this should also be discussed in the Commission? If we ban prepared energy drinks à la Red Bull and others, people will start making drinks of these components themselves, because the market, unfortunately, creates the situation that opportunities are found to circumvent this ban.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U41	Thank you! Now, let me get this straight. Your point is that if we ban the advertising of energy drinks to children, the producer is going to advertise these slaps to children? Maybe there's a threat, but we haven't had that kind of advertising so far. Today, the advertising of energy drinks has been clearly intended for children. The research at the Institute for Health Development found that the main reason children drink these drinks is that they are sweet. I believe that if we replace one sweet drink ad with another sweet drink ad, it won't hurt. But if the ads really do get those slaps, we'll keep looking.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U42	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U43	Thank you. Good waitress! You have identified these health risks, which are mainly related to caffeine and sugar over-consumption. Lemonates and other drinks that children consume also contain a lot of sugar. Is the next step to ban them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U44	No, there's no plan for that, at least not as far as I know. The faction of the Centre Party has not considered banning chocolate, banning it or removing it from sale. But I showed you a slide. 150 milliliters of coffee in a press pot or filter coffee is 90 milligrams of caffeine. I've never seen a first-class, second-grade or fifth-grade kid who drinks coffee after practice to restore his energy levels. Coke drinks contain three times less caffeine than energy drinks, which means that there is no reason to ban them because they are not so dangerous, particularly in terms of caffeine. Once again, since caffeine is the main active ingredient in these drinks, caffeine is the one associated with all health risks.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U45	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U46	Thank you. I am afraid that, as far as the restrictions in force in Europe are concerned, the rapporteur, in reply to Mr Velman's question, misled us. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has also carried out an analysis and found that there are no significant restrictions in Europe. If there is something like this, it is self-regulation of producers and merchants. In particular, I would like to mention the French example of banning taurine-containing energy drinks, but the Court of Justice ruled in 2004 that regulation was abolished because it had not been scientifically proven that taurine was a health hazard. In the same way, caffeine has not been shown to pose a moderate risk to health. The rules of the European Union must not apply regulations, prohibitions or restrictions taken from the ceiling. How do you think that such a proposal, which is not scientifically justified, could be implemented in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U47	Thank you! How would I put it politely? Two things were confused about your question. We are not talking about banning energy drinks or taurine. We are talking about banning the advertising of energy drinks for children, because it is obvious that caffeine consumption is not healthy for children, is not necessary for children and is even harmful to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U48	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U49	Thank you. Good performer! Today, a new issue has been highlighted in the press: candy is sold, which is similar in content to energy drinks and harmful to children. Shouldn't we propose a correction on this, too?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U50	Thank you. I am not ready to answer this question because it is not our aim at this point to ban all sorts of harmful things. We know there are problems with these particular drinks. We have received a lot of feedback. When this survey is published in full, you will all see what percentages are indicated, how these drinks are consumed and what problems are involved. I'm not saying a percentage again, but a lot of kids drink energy drinks to quench their thirst. However, milk, juices, water, and other drinks are available for this purpose. No one's going to erase their thirst with candy, which is probably not a threat to candy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U51	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U52	Thank you. Just as all other interesting things continue to evolve, these stimulating instruments. Today's press has mentioned quite a lot of the amount of candy that children receive. These candy are meant for children. Producer companies and brands are actually the same, just 'exchange model'. Advertising these candy to children would certainly benefit producers. Some brands, which are very common among young people, will be tried out of curiosity. My question is about directing advertising. When you prepared the draft, did you then analyse which advertising or sales restrictions are used, for example, in countries referred to by a colleague where sales are not prohibited?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U53	In fact, such examples are entirely present. There are countries where image-creating ads are banned, à la, if you drink a jar of this drink, then you're big and beautiful, you're a giant or a hero. There are certainly no children's cartoons in France that promote energy drinks, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U54	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U55	Thank you. Good waitress! How can this law be applied in practice? Do I have any hope in the future or the possibility of following Formula 1 races or other international sports events sponsored by energy drink manufacturers and that is why these events take place? How can I look at Formula 1 from Estonia's television channels in the future if advertising for energy drinks is banned?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U56	Thank you! What do sports organizers do, that's their business. Our idea was to ban these ads on TV and radio from 7:00 to 9:00. That means that when you turn on the TV, there's no advertising block that advertises energy drinks. Of course, if any sports event is shown on television and this logo is displayed on the wall, then no one will cover it. I am talking about what is happening on Estonian television and radio.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U57	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U58	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I've read that kids should be kept away from energy drinks before and after practice. At the same time, it is common ground that an energy drink is like a sports drink that helps the body recover. What's the difference between energy and sports?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U59	Thank you! Actually, these are very different things. For example, an authoritative pediatrician like Adik Levin has said that a healthy child does not need any extra active substance after exercise to restore energy. Drink some milk or eat a piece of chocolate. Energy drinks do not restore the body's reserves, energy drinks help to stay awake and suck man to death. Salts and minerals contained in sports drinks, which actually help restore energy supplies, but unfortunately, sports drinks are not so delicious. I tried it myself last night. I was tempted to offer both drinks to my seven-year-old child, but I didn't poison the baby and I tried myself. The sports drink isn't sweet, but the energy drink is.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U60	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U61	Thank you. To clarify my previous question, there are no internationally recognised studies to ensure that caffeine in moderate quantities is dangerous, just like taurine. We are still talking about the risks of over-consumption, but in this case the risks may arise for any substance. But once again, I want to hear a logical explanation of how advertising restrictions help against overexploitation. In the example of Austria, two to four cans a day are not yet hazardous to health. How does the advertising restriction on television at certain times help children to understand that moderate consumption is normal, while overconsumption is dangerous?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U62	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! We have already gone along with many restrictions, we have imposed restrictions on advertising. Would it be possible for the Commission to order an impact analysis on all the bans and restrictions that we have gone along with? One proposal to introduce a restriction, namely draft 426, is on the table today. What will be the real effects of this siege in real life? Has there ever been a plan to carry out such an analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, It is likely that the Economic Commission was not talking about school or education. But I just want to know if you had any information that school has a growing problem with children with hyperactive tendencies. If such children also consume a small amount of energy drinks, their behaviour changes, politely said, medically uncontrolled, and occasionally medical intervention is also required. Therefore, I believe that such a restriction, for example, on the school's territory and on sports events for children, is also necessary in your opinion, especially for those children to whom this drink may be dangerous.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U64	Thank you. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, we did not discuss this issue in this respect, or so in detail. In its letter, the Committee on Social Affairs said in a relatively different way that energy drinks are not necessary for young people. But many things are not necessary for young people, starting with political advertising and ending with anything. So from this point of view, we did not discuss it, but I have been shown that only 2.2% of children consume energy drinks from first to sixth grade. It gives hope that this is not a very big problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U65	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U66	Thank you! I agree with you, of course, that very many things are not necessary for children. But look at my seven-year-old child watching 24 hours of poster 'The Way of Tartu! As, I guess nothing's gonna happen to him, but if he drinks a box of energy drinks, maybe something's gonna happen. You referred to a letter that says that 300 to 400 milligrams of caffeine a day is okay. What kind of weight is that? If you don't mind, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U67	Thank you. I referred to a letter from the Estonian Food Industry Association, which in turn referred to the European Food Safety Authority. It's about grown-up people. What's that weight? Probably 70 to 90 kilograms. But thank you for your kids watching my commercial! That does not really pose a health risk to them. If you don't mind, there's a little personal remark. I think that the state cannot take on the role of babysitter, but that parents and educational institutions must also retain a certain function. I think it's a little hypocritical to think that if we restrict advertising, the problem will be solved. In English, the term "nanny state," which perfectly sums up the fact that if the state wants to be overly protective or over-regulating and restricting freedom of choice to take on a very large role, then people, including parents, may still feel that this is not their problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U68	Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Two Commissions have dealt with this issue. The problem exists, but as I understand it, the main reason why this bill cannot be supported is that there are no studies. Did you have a debate in the Commission on what to do so that the Commission can rely on these studies and when these studies can be completed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U70	Thank you. There has been a great deal of research in the world in itself, but no health study has been shown to the Commission to say that caffeine is dangerous to health at all. I've been sent a lot of research links. These studies say that caffeine in certain amounts is beneficial for health. There are also consumer research that tells us how much someone uses something. But it seems to me that research is a big and long topic in itself, which I think is going to be done for tens of years. At least the studies to which reference was made here were carried out for 10 to 15 years in order to learn about the long-term impact. They can't be done in a matter of months in a hurry. So, unfortunately, I have no data on whether anyone is doing these in Estonia, rather I look forward to the results of international studies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U71	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question concerns advertising restrictions a little more broadly. You quoted in the Government's letter that the restriction on advertising of energy drinks restricts the freedom to conduct a business, which is contrary to § 31 of the Constitution. The Constitution also provides that any citizen can freely conduct politics and spread his or her views. However, as we know, there will be one restriction on political advertising on Sunday. Does the government consider this advertising restriction to be contrary to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U73	Thank you. The Committee on Economic Affairs did not discuss this, but I believe it is. In my opinion, this political advertising restriction is completely ineffective, as we are seeing today on the streets. Campaigns have grown longer and more expensive. This is a rather primitive and populist approach to advertising.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U74	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U75	Thank you! Honourable waitress! Since you came out of the format prescribed for the Commission rapporteur several times, I dare ask you a personal question. Would you give your children an energy drink? If so, from what age and in what case?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U76	Good question. Maybe I would, but I would explain to them, as the Committee on Social Affairs said, this drink is not necessary for them and there are better drinks.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U77	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U78	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! Is caffeine beneficial or harmful to the child, and can a child become addicted to caffeine?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U79	Thank you! Caffeine is harmful to the child and can be addicted to caffeine. In my relationship with the social welfare departments of Tallinn and youth centres, I learned that there are young people who are completely addicted to energy drinks. We have kids who can't even stay up all day without that drink.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U80	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U81	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good front speaker! Personally, I very much support the ban on advertising energy drinks, but my question goes further. Do you think we could take a step forward later and ban the sale of energy drinks to children, as Rimi has voluntarily done? Secondly, do you know how the Member States of the European Union, or at least our neighbouring countries, view this issue? Is it forbidden to sell energy drinks to children?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U82	Thank you! I would point out that we are not talking about banning advertising for energy drinks at all, but about banning advertising for children. It's forbidden to sell these drinks to children in some places. As Mr Aas said, it was banned in France, then lost in court, and now they are trying to do it differently. Apparently, the mistake was related to the taurine, but I sincerely hope that they will overcome this problem. There are countries where energy drinks are not sold to children and there are countries where they are not sold in a grocery store, where you have to go to a pharmacy to buy energy drinks. As regards the ban on selling to children, I am in favour of it with two hands. We also gave the procedure last year an appropriate draft, which was voted down in this Chamber. However, a study by the Institute for Health Development found that there is a clear willingness in society to ban the sale of energy drinks to minors, more than half of children, is in favour of banning the sale of energy drinks to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U83	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U84	Thank you very much. I have a very brief question. Dear Yana Toom! What is your message to those members of the Riigikogu who intend to oppose the draft law amending the advertising law that you have initiated, perhaps to vote it out of the procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U85	Thank you! I would like us to think more about public health in this Chamber, regardless of our political views.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U86	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U87	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! As we know, the Committee on Social Affairs also admitted that energy drinks are not necessary for children. The need to start developing national measures to reduce the consumption of these drinks. Did the Commission specifically mention what these measures could be, or did it not dwell on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U88	Thank you! Actually, we didn't stop at that yet. However, I think that in the Commission we reached a consensus when discussing the draft, because the facts that were shown to us by the Institute for Health Development were very convincing. But surely we will come back to this issue in the near future and we will deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U89	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U90	Thank you. I have a question about the caffeine content you spoke about in your report. You can understand the explanatory note, at least it says that the caffeine content of these drinks is about 30 milligrams per 100 millilitres, for example, a 500 milliliter can contains about 150 milligrams of caffeine. A comparison is made here that one cup of espresso contains 50.60 milligrams of caffeine, and you claimed that their caffeine content was the same. I simply ask, for the sake of understanding, which argument is correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U91	Let's open up the computer for a second and take a slide, then it's safer because I have paper in front of me. Espresso is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, the National Institute for Health Development has published a press pot or filter coffee called americano, which contains 90 milligrams of caffeine per 150 ml. The bottom row shows the caffeine content of the energy drink. Look at this! It's clear the kids don't drink coffee. Children drink cola drinks, sometimes eat chocolate, usually not dark chocolate. There's also the danger that if you drink an energy drink, you really shouldn't drink tea or coffee at all so you don't OD. Children usually drink tea in several cups during the day, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U92	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U93	Thank you very much, manager. Dear waitress, It was simply obvious to those in the hall that these readings were for different quantities. Coffee contains 90 milligrams of caffeine per 150 milliliters and an energy drink of 160 milligrams per 500 milliliters, which mathematically makes the energy drink a little thinner. I'm just saying the fact. Would you like to comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U94	Thank you! I would like to stress once again that we are talking about children. When we talk about children, sodas and cola drinks are still an option in discussions. Look at the amount of cola drinks and energy drinks. There's exactly half a liter here, but one has 65 milligrams, and the other has 160 milligrams of caffeine.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U95	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Economic Commission, Arto Asa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U96	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on two occasions: 11 June and 10 September. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (47 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz; At its meeting on 11 June, Yana Toom, representative of the initiator of the draft, gave an overview of the objectives and content of the draft, which were discussed in detail. Anne Laar, Head of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Doris Teiv, Chief Specialist of the same department, attended the meeting, who presented the positions of the Government of the Republic and answered questions. The Government of the Republic found the following: 'This is a restriction on the freedom of business arising from § 31 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the impact of energy drinks on consumers has not been much studied today from a scientific point of view. At this point, we consider that the amendment of the law cannot be taken lightly and the freedom to conduct a business, that is, imposing restrictions on the exercise of advertising in a particular case must be based on scientific evidence. The imposition of restrictions on the freedom to conduct a business on the basis of mere claims, opinions and little available evidence casts serious doubt on the justification and proportionality of these restrictions in order to achieve the intended objective. However, we are of the opinion that, if scientific research finally confirms the adverse effects on human health resulting from the use of energy drinks, these problems must be addressed with the utmost seriousness and the various measures must be implemented in a complex manner. It is certainly not only the restrictions on the advertising of energy drinks to address the situation, but it is important to start by raising awareness among young people themselves and adults, as well as reviewing the process of selling energy drinks in terms of availability and information. 'The Government of the Republic did not support the draft. However, the debate continued in the Commission. I will highlight a few keywords from this debate. The representative of the initiators of the draft act, Yana Toom, considered that the restriction on advertising was not linked to a restriction on the freedom to conduct a business, as it did not concern production. In addition, the government representative stated that trade is one of the types of business and, if advertising is restricted, it is a restriction on trade as a restriction on entrepreneurship. One study by TNS Emor on alcohol consumption and advertising highlighted in the opinion of the Government of the Republic. This study found that young people are not advertising, at least not alcohol advertising, the most important leverage, but the fifth among the six categories. However, the initiator of the draft thought that the comparison between alcohol and energy drinks was not correct and appropriate, that energy drinks were not subject to sales restrictions, so the focus should be on advertising restrictions. For a very long time, there was a discussion as to whether there was still scientific research to show that energy drinks are dangerous to health. This was a central issue in this whole debate. There was also an example from Latvia, which was already mentioned here. Latvia is considering imposing a sales restriction on energy drinks. He's still considering it, it doesn't apply. However, according to the European Union's procedures, the draft cannot be adopted as a law until it becomes clear whether the amendment is compatible with the Treaties on the European Union. According to the representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Latvians' draft is contrary to the principle of free movement of goods, as the restriction on sales and advertising is not justified because there is no scientific evidence-based argument. Recommended materials can be issued and action can be taken, but no restrictions can be imposed in the context of the European Union. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has also analysed this issue more broadly. Previously, there was an example of France, which tried to impose sales restrictions, but since it was not scientifically justified that certain substances are dangerous, the Court considers that such regulations cannot be imposed in the European Union. It was also recalled that there are currently consumer protection guidelines for producers and sellers on advertising and selling energy drinks to children, as well as warning labels for products. The mandatory nature of warning signs is a consequence of EU legislation. It was also discussed whether the restriction of advertising, as foreseen in the draft, would produce the desired results, as online advertising has been excluded. It is very difficult to limit this advertising online, but young people know that they spend a lot of time on the Internet and also receive information from it. Following the June debate, the Commission decided to refer the matter to the Committee on Social Affairs for an opinion. The meeting was closed with a decision to refer the draft to the plenary session on 12 September. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (47 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz; At the end of the summer, the Committee on Social Affairs sent us its position, and on 10 September the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft for the second time. The opinion of the Social Committee did not reveal any new important information. The fact that energy drinks are not necessary for young people was acknowledged, however, that there is no scientific research into the risks. The Social Affairs Committee was introduced to the primary research results of the Institute for Health Development, but, unfortunately, they were not yet public at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. So we members of the Committee on Economic Affairs could not read these results, but Yana Toom, as she did today, brought certain aspects out of it. But I would stress that the study of the Institute for Health Development also deals primarily with consumption, how many young people, or even Estonian people, consume energy drinks, does not address health risks. This Tuesday, a lively debate was held on whether energy drinks are harmful to health or over-exploitation and whether certain substances, particularly caffeine, are dangerous, which are naturally found in many other foods and beverages. I refer to a letter from the Estonian Food Industry Association, which stresses that the moderate consumption of caffeine, between 300 and 400 milligrams per day, has been accepted by many authoritative organisations, including the European Food Safety Authority. Reasonable and moderate consumption is not a problem, but the problem may be over-consumption caused by ignorance, as is the case with many other things. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading be closed (with 7 committee members voting in favour, 2 votes against and 2 abstentions) and that the deadline for submitting amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 26 September 2013 at 5.15 p.m. (consensually). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U97	Thank you, good waitress. You have a few questions. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U98	Thank you. We have not discussed this in this way in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Maybe at some point you should really do it. I do not know what the economic possibilities of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu to order studies are. However, on this issue, I would like to emphasise once again the context of the European Union's internal market. We have made certain commitments in the Treaties. The European Union wants the internal market to be uniform and looks very closely at what the Member States are doing. When I come out of the issue of energy drinks, I say that Member States often try to protect their internal market, they use protectionist methods. There are very strict regulations that the European Commission and the European Court of Justice are monitoring. If certain areas are to be restricted, there will also be a notification procedure in the European Union. Before this law enters into force, all Member States must express their views and the European Commission must formulate its opinion on whether this law complies with the rules of the internal market. I have given examples that certain restrictions have not been in line. With this proposal too, this process may last at least six months if not one year. It is not impossible to implement this, but we must follow the rules that we have agreed among ourselves in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U99	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Today's draft is, in my opinion, a classic dispute between freedom of business and the aspect of public health. Which, in your opinion, outweighs the other, is § 31 of the Constitution on freedom to conduct a business or § 28 of the Constitution on the right to health protection? Which, in your opinion, is more important in the present society?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U101	Thank you. They must be viewed in a complex and balanced way. It's not like we're talking today about someone forcing children to drink energy drinks.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U102	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Toomas Tõniste, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U103	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I have never met parents who would shine with joy when their child drinks energy drinks. Even less do I know parents who buy this drink for children themselves. I wonder why that is. I guess it's probably because parents care about their kids. I don't see any reason why we can't do this in this hall. Listening to this debate gives the impression that we are talking a lot about banning. I would point out, just in case, that this draft does not, in fact, prohibit the sale of energy drinks, but restricts the advertising of these drinks to children. I really don't see any sin here. We should certainly make sure that we do not get too carried away by restricting everything that we feel is harmful, but I think that this bill deserves further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U104	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 426 amendments. a 26 September at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the second item is also closed. Good fellows! Today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 11.29 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U105	I will answer the first part of the question first. Excessive consumption is harmful, that is true. But it is very difficult for a child to know what excessive consumption is. We know how much caffeine can be consumed per kilo of body weight, but no child is going to calculate how much she can drink, the child is just drinking. As far as advertising is concerned, we are not only talking about television images, we are talking about advertising for children, it turned out clearly from the survey that about 10% of children drink energy drinks because of advertising. This drink is also bought home, and some children simply take it from the refrigerator at home. Such advertising restrictions would certainly be a major step in terms of communication. We must give a clear signal that energy drinks are harmful to children. That's why this bill is on this table.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U106	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U107	Thank you. I'll come back to the health risks. The main problem, however, is over-consumption of caffeine; it is the problem of children in particular. You have claimed that more energy drinks are consumed in Estonia than in other parts of Europe. But actually the National Institute for Health Development is still doing this research, which explains, among other things, how much caffeine is still consumed and from which sources it is obtained. Haven't you considered waiting for the results of this study to find out how things really are?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U108	Thank you! Firstly, I have not argued that more caffeine is consumed in Estonia than in the rest of Europe. I didn't say that, absolutely not. The results of the study are entirely there, and I have seen them at the Social Affairs Committee. The Committee on Social Affairs also sent a letter to the Committee on Economic Affairs, which states in black that energy drinks are not necessary for children.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U109	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You mentioned that 10% of young people or minors or children consume energy drinks on the basis of advertising, others on the basis of friends or someone else's recommendation. As you mentioned, the coaches recommend drinking these drinks. After all, our good goal is for people, including children and parents, to make wise choices. How much is this side being dealt with? I agree that advertising needs to be reduced. I don't mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U111	Thank you! For example, Rimi's trading chain banned the sale of energy drinks to minors on its own initiative, without any pressure. That must have been almost a year ago. For that, honor and praise to them. But no other trading chain has done the same. Self-regulation is very nice things, but it is very easy to "pass" voluntary movement. So, unfortunately, this side is not very dealt with. The Ministry of Social Affairs has developed a manual on how to use energy drinks wisely, but unfortunately, it does not work very much. As far as advertising is concerned, I am the mother of five children, and I believe that women, but perhaps men, too, know very well how advertising affects children. Sometimes we buy them things they like only because there's some sort of Shrek picture on it or something. If we add to the advertising affected children their parents, who are indirectly affected by this advertising, we will get quite a large number.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U112	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, While fully agreeing to this problem, I still want to ask you one thing. How do you intend to define in the future what is advertising for children and what is not? I think that this is going to create insane disputes and there are different interpretations available to both advertisers and advertisers. That's one. Second, it is children who are known to be affected by all restrictions and commands that they are enthusiastic about what is forbidden. Have you and how you considered how to develop an information campaign that changes the attitudes of society as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U114	Thank you! Once again, I believe that this debate, which is taking place in this Chamber, and this bill, when we adopt it as a law, is a large part of this campaign. What is advertising for children? I think that when, for example, balloons or a newspaper or magazine children's heading advertises energy drinks or if it's a cartoon character, it's obvious that this ad is for children, but if it's in some guy's fashion store, it's not for children. I believe that this definition is not very complicated. It is clear that if a child accidentally sees some kind of video clip in the cinema before a film that is not a children's film, it is not an advertising for children, the child has just gotten into the wrong place. I don't see a big problem here. I believe that when such a ban comes, energy drink manufacturers will find a way to advertise these drinks to other target groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-12_U115	Tarmo Tamm, please!
