ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the third working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today initiating a draft law amending the order of the Defence Forces and related amendments to other laws. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Defence, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this bill in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U3	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U4	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour of handing over, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the draft law amending § 5 of the State Family Benefits Act, with which we want to increase the support of the first and second children to six times the amount of the allowance, i.e. to start paying three times as much as so far. The need-based family support implemented in July, which was intended to reduce the number of children in poverty, must be regarded as a failure, as a result of the procedures for applying for the dignity of people and the ridiculously small amount of support, the vast majority of applications for support have been abandoned and the money does not reach the target group. In September, 3814 families were paid needs-based family allowances instead of the estimated 30361 families. The Social Democrats must be wrong in a situation where the family must first fall into poverty in order to receive help. By its very nature, no child benefit can be subsistence assistance. Children's benefits must remain universal, otherwise the country will put labels on the children and give the impression that some children are more welcome in our country with a low birth rate than the other. Such an attitude can be considered disastrous, all the more so as in the development plans, the government expects a 1.75 birth rate by 2015. However, it is a sad fact that in 2010 an average of 1.64 children were born per woman of childbearing potential, while in 2012 this figure was already 1.59. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U5	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I am handing over the draft law amending § 16 of the Road Act. Paragraph 16 (3) of the Road Act is intended to amend and formulate it in such a way that the distribution of money for the storage of state roads and the storage of local roads is determined for each financial year in the state budget. For local road investments, at least 15% of the amounts earmarked for the financing of road maintenance in 2014 and 20% in 2015, 25% in 2016 and 30% in 2017 are allocated to the state budget. This corresponds more or less to the country's distribution of roads. There are 58768 kilometres of roads in Estonia, of which 164669 kilometres are state roads, 23901 kilometres are local roads, and 18398 kilometres are private and forest roads. We have 31% of routes, 41% of local roads and 28% of private and forestry roads. Until 1 March 2009, a law was in force according to which, each year, local authorities were assigned at least 10% of the amount intended to finance road maintenance in the state budget. This law was amended and this provision will not be implemented today. In addition, in order to implement the change we have proposed, EUR 14.6 million would be needed in 2014. I can say that in 2008, the total amount of roads allocated to local authorities amounted to 16.2% of the excise duty on fuel received, while in 2013 it was only 9.7%. As a result, the state of the roads of Estonian municipalities is exactly what we all see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Now to the messages. On Wednesday, 25 September, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Culture Rein Lang and Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu have been registered, 15 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U8	Let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Civil General Part Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the member of the Riigikogu Neeme Suur!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U9	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We also welcome the Finnish Social Democrats, the demarist women who are watching our sitting on the balcony! Ladies and gentlemen, Like traffic on our streets, the world of loans has become part of our daily lives, whether we want it or not, whether we like it or not. We want traffic to be safe, and we should be concerned that the person who is forced to borrow can do so safely. Draft 451, which I have the honour to present to you, talks about the reorganisation of the credit market, including the limitation on the percentage of charge in the provision of consumer credit. For a long time, I wondered what would be the appropriate comparison. The most common restriction we all know is the speed limit in traffic. We feel its effect every day as soon as we drive. But imagine a situation where we want to respect a person's personal freedom by losing the speed limit in traffic. After all, we could reason that if there are very dangerous conditions outside, everyone will be more cautious and therefore there will be fewer accidents. The human self-preservation instinct must save us. However, if we have seen that there has actually been an increase in the number of road accidents, we would take the decision to ban ads calling on people to drive insanely and to impose on car salesmen the obligation to assess people's tendency to drive. And we'd think that's enough. A similar situation exists today on the high-speed credit market or on the high-speed credit road, if I may. The state of the high-speed credit market was last dealt with in this hall in the spring. Then we did exactly what I just said in comparison. With the spring bill, this was a bill of 347 we tried to clean up the high-speed credit market and proposed two fundamental changes. We wanted the adverts to be more normal and not to call on people to borrow insanely and to make the credit crunch control a liability on the part of the lender. It was also about setting a limit on the percentage rate of charge, but this was not done. Only two minimum steps were taken. Now the question is whether this is enough or not. The Social Democrats feel that this is not enough. The reason for this draft is the conviction that the mere pinch and admonition of reasonableness is not enough to clean up the high-speed credit market, as well as the fact that the Ministry of Justice drafted and submitted to the Committee on Legal Affairs the text needed to set a limit on the percentage of credit costs for consideration. The coalition did not support this step forward. The Social Democrats are convinced that the measures taken in the spring have not been sufficient; they do not guarantee consumer safety in the credit market. Implementation of a percentage rate of charge in the economic environment is known as usury. In fact, we have one and only question: is usury in the Republic of Estonia simply deplorable or forbidden, or is it allowed if we think that the client was in his right mind when concluding the contract? The purpose of the draft law 451 is to ensure safe and reasonable conditions for consumers to use consumer credit services, i.e. to take fast credit. The draft bans the issue of a loan in cash and limits the percentage of charge applicable to the provision of consumer credit services. So far, the amount of the loan has also been available in cash, so that the use of consumer credit is not reflected in the customer's other financial relationships, and this is also advertised by many service providers. Lend us, we won't tell anyone! The bank doesn't lend, come to us, we do! Until now, the applicable limit of the APR has been given as an indicative in § 86 of the General Part of the Civil Code Act. In fact, however, service providers often apply rates of charge up to ten times or even more than the indicative threshold, taking advantage of the situation of consumers. Paragraph 1 (1) of the draft law is intended to supplement the Law of Obligations Act with a new § 4021 which would limit the cash issuance of credit by express lenders. The provision imposes an obligation to execute all settlements between the borrower and the lender only through personal current accounts. Paragraph 1 (2) of the draft law seeks to supplement the Law of Obligations Act with a new paragraph 4062 which would limit the percentage of charge for consumer credit agreements. The drafters propose to set a limit of three times the cost of consumer loans granted by credit institutions to private individuals on the website of Eesti Pank. The same paragraph specifies Eesti Pank's obligation to publish this rate every month. The second paragraph of that new paragraph gives the borrower the right to repay the insignificant loan received under the contract by the same date as it was obliged to do so by a void contract. In this case, the interest rate on loans is calculated to the extent provided for in § 94 (1) of the Law of Obligations Act, while other obligations falling under the cost rate of consumer credit are not taken into account. § 2 of the Bill seeks to amend § 86 (3) of the General Part of the Civil Code Act. The paragraph deletes the limitation of the percentage rate of charge to be paid, which is governed by the draft Law of Obligations Act. So much for the substance of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission's rapporteur, who thought in the spring that we were waiting for what would happen in Finland, will also come up with a remote control, and now thinks that let's not do like in Finland, doing like in Sweden. But maybe we should do what we did in Germany. There's usury as defined by law and punishable by criminal law. Another waitress is likely to say that, if the consumer is aware of the circumstances, the enrichment of hundreds of percent by collecting a larger amount of money is not unacceptable, but simply good business. He is likely to read out the view of the Government of the Republic that this is an attempt to restrict the freedom to conduct a business too strictly. I wonder how setting a limit on the percentage of charge differs from setting a limit on taxi fare. After all, we know that such a restriction could come about by amending the law on traffic. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will stand for safe travel on Estonian roads and for safe lending on our credit market. The Government of the Republic refers in its opinion to a number of other legitimate questions, but we can only seek answers to them if the draft remains in the process. So, ladies and gentlemen, I very much hope that you will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U10	Thank you very much. Let's get to asking questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U11	Dear waitress, How much APR was set in Finland? It does not appear in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U12	I owe you an answer, I don't know exactly what the Finnish rate is.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U13	Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you, Neeme the Great! I would like to ask for a co-report by Mr Valdo Randpere, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U14	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, My previous speaker pretty much predicted what I'm gonna say. He did not know the right answer to Mr Stalnukhin's question. I'll answer that first. Finland has introduced a slightly volatile rate, depending on the circumstances, but at present it is about 50%. But, yes, the Commission discussed this draft and if there were to be a statement here that I am going to report, I might surprise you a little by saying something else. Let me say, for example, that I think there is a very good example of bad legislation in front of you here. In spring, we discussed the issue of fast-track loans in the Commission for a very long time and in depth, and we jointly decided to wait for what will happen in Finland, where this restriction was introduced very clearly and very unambiguously. It shall apply from 1 July in Finland. So it has been in place for a relatively short period of time and we do not have very good scientific analysis or other data on what the result is. Preliminary data confirm that this solution is not working in Finland. It has gone as we feared: this absolute boundary has led to the search for side roads, for loopholes. That is why it was indeed said in the Commission that perhaps we should look to Sweden, where fast-lending companies are subject to strict control and there is a requirement that they register. In my opinion, it is wise not to make all kinds of mistakes on your own, but to learn from the mistakes of others. If we go directly to the Commission, we discussed this draft on Monday, 16 September. The Commission concluded that the draft had some shortcomings. First, the cash part. In fact, there is no indication in the legal system that cash settlement is somehow bad, as if it were suddenly under the bill. Secondly, it is a mixed proposal concerning the regulation that will happen if the loan is still granted in cash. Will the entire covenant become null and void? Should the amount received be refunded, or what happens then? The second problem is that it is based on the fact that the current provision, which deals with the three times the average monthly consumer credit rate calculated by Eesti Pank as the limit of charge, is as recommended. That's not true, that's pre-requisite. If this is wrong, then in legal practice, even after the change we made in the spring, the decision will certainly be made in favour of a person who has taken a loan at too high an interest rate under whatever circumstances or his folly. So in that sense, we didn't do anything so very minimal in the spring. We agreed in the Commission when discussing the draft that, in fact, these 'little changes', as the previous speaker expressed themselves, have achieved their goal. In Estonia, advertisements have disappeared since the summer, which clearly stated that you could borrow from us, have an APR of 4,000 percent or whatever it was. This was a direct incentive when the topic began to be dealt with in the spring. These advertisements in themselves already constituted a direct offence. In view of all the above, I would argue that we should not jump quickly, but let things be clarified and see how things are going. It seems that our amendment from spring will work, while Finnish regulation does not seem to work. The drafters in the Commission said that what if we make this change now? You can change it again in a few weeks if something goes wrong. We don't think that's the way to go. The Commission's decision was that we would send this draft on the agenda of the plenary session by 24 September, i.e. today. That is what we decided by consensus. We also proposed to reject the draft at first reading, with 6 people in favour, 0 against and 2 abstentions. I was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U15	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U16	Dear waitress, The business of fast-lending companies is clearly beneficial to their owners of 200 or 300 people across Estonia and is clearly detrimental to the rest of the population. Does the majority of your committee represent the Estonian population or fast-lending companies? It is difficult to understand why you do not even wish to debate this issue further.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U17	I don't know what you've come to the conclusion that we don't want to debate. We're very happy to debate, to debate all spring. And we certainly do not hurt less for the Estonian people than you do. But the question is also that it is not our job to impose unreasonable restrictions on economic activity. Given the circumstances, it is important to understand that people sometimes need to take credit. We must prevent loans from being granted under completely unreasonable conditions, and that is what we have done. But we can't forbid people once and for all, if that's what you say, do stupid things. In a way, foolishness is human. We do not live in a society where we can regulate everything up to the limit. Finland is a good example. They tried to set an absolute limit, but it doesn't work. Now it's talking about some contracts, credit line agreements have come up. The easiest side road, however, is what we discussed in the spring. If we begin to limit this rate very firmly, there will simply be a form of borrowing from private individuals. And it is already very difficult to control and regulate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U18	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U19	Honourable waitress! I remember that we agreed in the Commission and in this Chamber that we would support the draft proposed by the government, but the condition was that, in the autumn after the elections, in the end of October or in the first half of November, we would come back to the issue. You will also know how things have gone in Finland. I understand that the Social Democrats have provoked this problem to be discussed now, but what does the government coalition or the Commission offer? When can we discuss this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U20	I don't know the exact date, but thanks for the good question, Eldar. I'm glad you got this right. We really agreed to see how things work elsewhere first. We will not make mistakes made by others that we can learn from. But if you've noticed, the elections have not yet taken place. When we said in the spring that we would come back to the subject in the autumn after the elections, somewhere in November, that is where we aim.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U21	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U22	Good waitress! You said that the Commission was hesitant about what would happen if the treaty turned out to be null and void. So how do you pay back the money? If you have examined the draft, you should know that Paragraph 2 (2) of this section states that if a consumer credit agreement is void as set out in subsection 1 of this section,... The text goes on from there, so that the draft will provide a concrete solution to the situation if the contract proves void in accordance with the text of the draft. A specific provision exists in the draft. Have you read this paragraph, and if you have, didn't what it said satisfy you?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U23	I didn't read it out, which would be the solution if, for example, a cash loan had been granted. And you do not even specify what happens when, for example, the current account to which the money is transferred is not a specific person, but maybe a leasing company. It makes perfect sense that this could be the case in many cases. What happens then? In that sense, I think your bill is raw. You didn't turn it in in the fall, you gave it in the spring right after we adopted the previous draft. I think you've been too hasty. Let's take this a little bit slow and make a better-quality law, otherwise we really have to gather here every two weeks to discuss the same thing and go from one extreme to another.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U24	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U25	Good colleague! I don't know where you get the information that everything's worked out since spring. I just kicked it off here: Credit24 just a credit cost of 600.52%, Monetti's high-speed credit limit of 271.56%. And you're saying that we've got a statutory estimated APR written in the law in 2009. In your speech, you called ignoring the rate of Eesti Pank even an offence. But why is the restriction adopted in 2009 not working? I've just given examples of our fast-borrowing websites.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U26	I haven't looked at the credit rates on the websites, but I've been watching ads that are made on TV and other media. There's a lot of numbers down there, compared to the time we started the discussion. The rates have fallen below the expected threshold, which is three times the average cost of consumption loans granted by banks to private individuals. It's more or less 100 percent. An assessment of whether a consumer credit agreement is null and void shall be provided by the court. So this is not automatically an offence in itself. But I'm going to repeat what we talked about in the spring. I'm gonna call on anyone who feels like they've been cut by a fast-lending company. Turn to court! If that is the case, you will most likely get help from there, you will be protected from your rights!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U27	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U28	Honourable waitress! I am sure you discussed this issue in the Commission as well. There has been a lot of talk here about the repayment of a fast loan. Will the same rule apply when paying back a fast loan as in other Estonian companies? For example, if shoes or any products are of poor quality, they are entitled to be returned within 14 days. How's the loan? Do people have the right to repay it within 14 days without paying any contract fees or other charges?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U29	Interesting question, I'm afraid I don't know the answer to that. But I doubt that right. I'd rather think you'd get a very high percentage if you paid the money back in 14 days. You will then achieve at least a theoretically very high percentage rate of charge.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U30	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U31	Good waitress! Speaking of the possibility of curbing short-term lenders, you said that it was unreasonable to set limits on economic activity. At the same time, the State sets limits on economic activity when it restricts the sale of alcohol when it imposes restrictions on the right of establishment of pharmacies. As far as fast-track credit is concerned, it is clearly usury, which is causing economic damage to people and, ultimately, to the state. Jesus Christ was not ashamed to expel usurpers from the church, and it has been cited as a positive example for 2,000 years. Perhaps controlling usury users is also economically meaningful, though?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U32	I certainly did not say that any limitation of economic activity is wrong, I said that it is unreasonable to restrict economic activity. The question is, where do we draw this line? The same example of alcohol sales that you mentioned could go to the other extreme and ban alcohol. You know that these experiments have been conducted, and you know what the result has been. They're not working! In the same way, we cannot go too far here by setting absolute rates. It would simply create a black market or otherwise make use of loopholes. We need to find an optimal option in which people's rights are protected to the maximum and, at the same time, there is still an opportunity to engage in reasonable economic activity by appealing to compliance. The granting of credit on reasonable terms is in no way bad or wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U33	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U34	Honourable waitress! I am still wondering when the coalition will come up with its proposal so that it can discuss the issue of fast-track loans more widely, rather than now, when we have a draft that we can opt for. Will the Commission hold a public hearing where this matter can be discussed? Does the government intend to make proposals or an analysis of weaknesses? Or has he promised to come out with a new bill? Somehow I don't want this question to remain in the coming year. Either way, we should discuss it in November.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U35	Thank you, Eldar! Since you have expressed this wish twice here, it is also written in the verbatim and certainly known to everyone. I don't think you were involved in the discussion of this previous bill, but about six months earlier, this was the case, I wouldn't say a public hearing, but the gathering of specialists and other people involved. Ministries, banks and all over the world have come together to get a picture of the actual situation of how large such loans are, etc. Surely such events are no harm in terms of good legislation. But I don't think we're dealing with that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U36	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U37	Good Commission waitress! Let us be honest, you do not really want to regulate the activities of fast-lending companies. You're just looking for a way to get past it. Otherwise, you would have tightened the rules already in the spring, as you originally promised, when you came up with this point. Right now, you just let people peel like potatoes. Why are you doing this? This talk is not very plausible that there is no scientific assessment and that it is not yet possible to learn from the mistakes of others.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U38	Your question contained a lot of assessments. I could do the same. I don't think you would be too worried about this problem if there weren't an election coming up and you weren't hoping to pick up a few cheap points from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U39	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U40	Honourable waitress! My question stems from your response to Mr Eldar Efendiev. If you had such a big round table six months ago before the spring bill, did the debt advisers attend? All over Estonia, debt counselors have pointed out, as a matter of great concern, that people's biggest problem, why debt counselors are even addressed, is that they are in trouble because of fast-track loans. From there, the loss of home and other woes will follow.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U41	That is a good question in itself. Unfortunately, I don't remember who was there. There were a lot of people there, including the Ministry of Social Affairs, but I don't remember who that was. This meeting was about a year ago, six months before we started working on this bill in the Riigikogu last time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U42	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U43	This current 'prerequisite' attitude towards contracts is such that if the other party knows or had to know about the other party's extraordinary need, dependence, inexperience or other such circumstances, the contract should be void. If we're thinking about taking a short-term loan, I don't know anyone who can afford 200 or 300 or 400 percent of a loan with pure joy or pleasure. This is likely to be the case when there is an emergency or other distress. As such, is not the whole high-speed credit market against the law and should be much tougher regulated? You're saying that people should defend themselves in court. Does that mean, in essence, that any person who takes a quick loan should go to court?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U44	Good questioner! You know as well as I do that in the spring we made a major change. This is that the lender must document the assessment of the borrower's creditworthiness. This is an important point, because if the lender makes a wrong assessment of the creditworthiness of the borrower at the beginning, he will most likely have to take responsibility for his error.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U45	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U46	I was moved to ask the question of linking this draft with the elections. Does the Commission's co-rapporteur also foresee that there will be a time in Estonia when there will be no elections? I hope there's not going to be a time like this. But restricting the freedom to conduct a business in the general interest is perfectly normal. Consider, for example, mining. It's not like everyone digs where they want and what they want. It is important for this draft to know that a very large number of people have become insolvent and in difficulties because they have not been able to properly assess their ability to repay fast loans. Why on earth should this problem be resolved by a court of law? Why should it not be regulated in a simpler way so that the majority of people who need loans can have it more accessible and understandable? Why not use the law to protect them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U47	Of course, different areas are subject to different restrictions. There are already limits in this area, too. But when we went to the example of mining, the fact that mining is being restricted does not mean that shovels are banned and harvested on sale. Basically, we are now looking for a reasonable line between restricting the freedom to conduct a business and protecting people. We're looking for it, and I think we're going to find a much better solution than we're going to lay down some absolute rules. In fact, we would encourage those involved to search for loopholes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U48	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U49	Honourable waitress! I'm going straight ahead of Eiki Nestor's question. You stated that in order to protect your rights, a poor borrower should go to court. As a rule, people who take fast loans don't have much money. They've already paid that loan shark their percentage. Are you asking them to borrow again because you need money to go to court?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U50	No, I'm not gonna call them on that. I recommend that people use legal aid, which is also provided free of charge.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U51	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U52	I would remind the co-rapporteur that the draft does not, as far as I know, propose a ban on the granting and taking of fast-track loans. So much for banning shovels. But isn't the number of people in debt prison enough to change the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U53	This is certainly part of the reason why we started dealing with this problem already in spring.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U54	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U55	The rejection of this draft was also justified by the fact that in the near future the government will come up with a much better plan and you are now looking for a balance between restricting the freedom to conduct a business and protecting people's rights. Perhaps you could explain in a few words what this plan is all about. How can this balance be secured?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U56	If you had listened carefully, you would know that when I answered the first questions, I spoke about this. It was about the experiences of Finland and Sweden, Neeme the Great mentioned Germany, and perhaps we will also explore the experiences of this country. My view is that we have very many examples of the surrounding countries and there is no point in making any mistakes ourselves. By acting very calmly, we can learn from the mistakes of others and draw up a bill that will last more than two weeks or two months.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U57	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U58	Good colleague! You spoke earlier, a few questions ago, about our spring legislation, when we put on high-speed lenders greater obligations to control people's creditworthiness. How can a fast-lender, I ask from his point of view, can it be verified? Perhaps the borrower prefers to settle in cash or using a neighbor's account. Is the restriction we adopted in the spring not essentially zero when several fast-lending companies offer credit in cash in the market and that is the first word in their radio advertising? How does a quick lender control creditworthiness?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U59	It's a matter for a fast-borrowing company how it proves, if necessary, that it was controlling creditworthiness. If he doesn't check it and the borrower goes to court, the result is predictable. The result is in favour of the borrower. In this sense, I am not very concerned that precise requirements should be laid down on how to do this. It is written into the nature of the matter that the creditor must deal with it. He must be able to prove, after all, that he was responsible for controlling credit capacity. And if he hasn't, he's bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U60	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Valdo Randpere. Let's get to the negotiations. I would like to ask for a speech chair for Mrs Tuus-Laul, who will speak on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U61	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The problem that led to the draft Social Democrats is well known to all of us. About a tenth of our adult population is threatened by a bailiff coming to the door, and there is a risk that these people's accounts will be seized. It is often because of over-indebtedness that it is possible to take out a quick loan. In the spring, we were working on a bill here on how to prevent a loan. The result achieved was rather weak. The Centre Party Group made a number of amendments which unfortunately were not taken into account. Thus, nothing radical was decided in the spring, and we agreed to see how Finland was doing, which set a limit on banks' interest rates. The Social Democrats want to set an analogous standard in Finland. The Finnish Code is much more complete in this respect. At the same time, Finn lenders are not stupid and, in order to continue usury, credit line agreements were used for fast-track loans, which by law circumvent reasonable interest rates. For example, credit line agreements agree on a loan amount of EUR 5000, a period of five years, the interest rate that the lender may charge is the maximum statutory interest rate multiplied by five. However, there are points in the loan agreement according to which only EUR 500 can be drawn from the borrower's loan per year. The next amount cannot be used until the previous one has been repaid. Thus, if the law sets a maximum interest rate and the loan period is five years, the person will never be able to use the full amount of the loan granted to him. At the same time, the lender is entitled to receive this five-year amount of interest and the result is still high interest. The faction of the Centre Party has dealt very thoroughly with the issue of loans and the solution of how to prevent sovereign debt. We recognise that it is not right for us now to take over only one part of the legal system of another country, as the Social Democrats propose. The area should be looked at in a comprehensive manner. In Finland, there is also the law on debt recovery, which states that the recovery of debts may not give rise to unreasonable costs or inconvenience for the debtor. The law also provides for maximum amounts to be charged for, for example, recalling a debt, sending a payment claim or changing the payment schedule. There are no laws in Estonia with such content. Therefore, if an annual interest rate limit is set, consideration should also be given to drawing up a debt recovery law so that lenders are not able to increase charges for secondary claims. In addition, we believe that, like Finland, we should put in place a consumer protection mechanism in the legal system that does not allow the creditor to immediately claim interest on the person who is late in payments and to impose other financial obligations on him if the delay of the borrower is due either to his illness or unemployment or to any other serious social problem. The draft proposes that the settlements relating to consumer credit are carried out only through personal current accounts. However, at the beginning of this year, Swedbank alone had seized nearly 70000 private customers. With this limitation, we are creating a situation where, without a bailiff, the debt cannot be repaid. For example, a person has two debts: fast loans and car leases. The bank account has been seized, but the person knows he's in debt, and he goes to the neighbor's house, for example, to break trees to get some money. It's very important to have a car. According to such a legislative amendment, a person would no longer be able to pay for car leases himself. He has to put that money in his bank account, and then the bailiff decides which claim he first accepts. If a short-term debt claim is the first, it is usually satisfied first, even though it may be more important for a person to pay off car leases. I also believe that such a restriction is against the Constitution. The Social Democrats have come up with a solution that has been discussed repeatedly in the Commission. In some ways, it seems as if they had not been present in the discussions. However, the government has not moved on and, in order to keep the subject on the agenda, the Central Party Group is against voting this draft out of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U62	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U63	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to tell my Finnish colleagues on the balcony that we do not talk about Finland as much every day as we do today. Forgive us! Now, what we have on the table today. What does our group want to highlight with this draft? In particular, I would like to remind you that the problem of fast loans affects almost a tenth of the people of Estonia, and this is what so many people have been exposed to. We are now talking about the fact that the law has all the means to protect the rights of borrowers, but we forget that although these possibilities are stated, borrowers are still in a much weaker position than short-term lenders. A good example is the same thing we've been talking about here today. Indeed, the law provides a presumption that the average cost of consumption loans granted by banks will not be exceeded by more than three times. Crossing this line is a violation of good practice, and a deal could be like nothing. I ask: this provision has been in our law since 2009, why is it not working? Four years have passed since the day this addition was accepted in this very hall. Good practice was expected to work, but good practice did not work and more and more people would get into a well of high credit cost. What else? It is certainly worth noting that we have perhaps devoted too much attention to the example of Finland. I think Estonia should choose its own path. Years ago, we chose to do this by taking into account good practice when establishing the percentage rate of charge. We can see that it is not working, but this good practice rate must become the limit beyond which usury is. That is the purpose of the bill we are debating today. In Finland, a different route has indeed taken place. There is talk of annual interest in Finland, and there is a slightly different regulation of the charges relating to the charge which, in addition to the interest, actually increase the amount to be recovered not twice as much, but three or four times as much. There is a very large difference in the approach to debt law, the provisions of the Law of Obligations Act. Yes, some of the criticisms that have been made can be accepted. In some places the wording is not the best, but the first, second and third reading of the bill is provided for in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. If the problem remains, the text will be discussed and supplemented after the completion of the first reading. And also: we have not deliberately included in the draft such a thing as the role of the Financial Supervision Authority in regulating the activities of high-speed credit companies. This role requires the skills, experience and competence of the executive. In fact, we can see and I very much regret that this world-view water supply is not running between the two lines expected in this hall, but going to the third and fourth lines. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U64	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U65	What is the aim of policies based on different perspectives, not precisely politicians, but policies? The aim can be to serve the interests of relatively small interest groups, such as monetary interest groups. These groups are sure to move society forward, but they are still a minority, for example, in the case of Estonia, 20% to 30% of the population. But the aim may also be to help the weaker side of society, for example, people who have remained in the very same fast loan chains in Estonia. They don't even struggle out of there, and they never get a competitive advantage over those who are more successful in society. At the moment when it is difficult for them to do so, they will be deprived of this advantage by means of our very liberal fast-borrowing policy today. I am sorry that opposition parties are starting to struggle now because of the first place that is helping the weaker one more. The Centre Party could still support our draft for a very simple reason. We're not talking about a final solution. No legal problem has a final solution in an evolving society that cannot be better. What we are talking about is that we are doing in 2009 to break the law on ignoring the estimated rate of cost recorded in the law. It must not be allowed. That is the purpose of our bill. On the other hand, I stress one thing, which is also the purpose of the draft, and which is certainly not unconstitutional. We should talk about borrowing fast as a contract subject to legal restrictions. One restriction would be the same that cash credits cannot be granted. That kind of credit wouldn't be a thread for people. To people who have borrowed more than their abilities, to those who are already in the hands of the bailiff, it would not be a line, but a step closer to hell. A person also takes cash credit and ultimately only goes beyond the solution of the problem, which could be the bankruptcy of a natural person. I call on all of you to think about the 100,000 people who are struggling with this problem before making a decision in a few decades' time and to vote in favour of ending the draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-24_U66	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 451 at first reading. We have to vote on this. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 451 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 46 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 30 against, no abstentions. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported, the draft falls outside the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is exhausted. I wish everyone a nice day. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 10.59 a.m.
