ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Minister. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check first! 26 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 75 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Regional Minister Siim Valmar Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U2	Let's get to the questions. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today there are five previously registered issues, so once again only two issues on the ground can be put forward for each issue. Please, Mr Simson, a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U3	Thank you. Prime Minister! Last week, the Riigikogu received the state budget with the votes of the members of the IRL and Reform Party. The Government of the Republic had based its budget on an economic forecast of 3.6% growth next year. The day after the final budget vote, Eesti Pank published its new economic forecast, which was much more modest. Eesti Pank said that next year growth will be one percentage lower, or 2.6%. Was it by chance that Eesti Pank came up with a more negative forecast the day after the budget was approved, or was this information known to the government earlier? What effect will one percent less economic growth have than was expected when the budget was drawn up?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U4	Thank you. The forecast for real growth may, however, not necessarily have an impact on budget revenue. After all, this year's forecasts for real economic growth have been reduced several times, but it can be said that they are not even quite good, but they are very good. Within 11 months, 92.7% of the planned year was received. If the expected receipts are distributed proportionally between 12 months, 91,66% should have been received. The payment has been received a whole percentage more than we had planned. In doing so, the statistics we have so far confirmed that the year is not as good as we planned when we adopted the budget. The prognosis is constantly being changed. The budget shall take into account the latest available forecasts and take decisions on this basis. It goes without saying that forecasts do not foresee everything either. Over the years, we have had budgets that were balanced when adopted, but there was a considerable deficit at the end of the financial year. For example, by the end of the 1999 budget, 3.5% of GDP was in deficit. At the same time, we have had plenty of budgets that have been adopted in balance, but the year has ended with a significant surplus. Such years were 2005, 2006 and 2007. The difference can reach up to 3%.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! You spoke of budgets that have been adopted in balance, but the year has ended with a deficit, or budgets that have been balanced, but the year has ended with a surplus. However, if we look at the budget for next year, we will see that this poorer economic forecast will worsen the nominal position of the state budget. If, on the basis of Eesti Pank's economic forecast, the state budget will remain in deficit in 2014, it does not coincide with the objective in the budget strategy that the budget should be brought to a sustainable surplus next year and that it should start increasing reserves. Has the government given up the objective of keeping the budget balanced, or is it simply beyond your reach?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U7	Thank you. I haven't given up. I'll bring back this year, for example. Based on the 11 months so far, we can say that the tax receipts have been EUR 50 million more than we were able to plan for the budget. So, what are we supposed to do with ourselves now? Or what should you do because you were the ones who finally approved this budget? 50 million euros is more! So what do we do now? At the same time, no one can foresee what the tax revenue will actually be. In the light of the principles of legal certainty, it is not conceivable that the budget will be adjusted after each new forecast. The budget shall be adopted on the basis of the best available knowledge. If the deviations are large, of course, negative budgets must be made, but I am not forecasting them now. The European Commission and the International Monetary Fund have advised Estonia not to make further cuts when deviations are normal, but to allow automatic stabilisers to function. At the moment, I am convinced that the budget has been adopted on the basis of the best knowledge. As a hardened optimist, of course, I hope that budget receipts will be higher than planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! I'm happy for your optimism. But even though you have over EUR 50 million, this budget is still not in surplus. Demagogy is a good weapon when it comes to budgetary balance or surplus. Indeed, when the national budget was no longer in nominal balance, the term'structuredly balanced balance' was introduced. Rasmus Kattai, Head of the Economic Policy and Forecasting Division of Eesti Pank, has commented on this in such a way that the government's decision to focus on structural surpluses may not be justified in a situation where assessments of the economic cycle are inconsistent with different indicators. Does the government use the term'structural budgetary position' simply to embellish the situation, or do you think it is economically justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U10	Thank you. This is, of course, economically justified. Since the outbreak of the crisis, the main focus at European Union level has been on structural balance and less on nominal balance, although both are certainly important. In the case of Estonia, no one in Europe looks at either balance, neither nominal nor structural, because Estonia is far from exceeding the nominal deficit limit of 3% of GDP. The budget for next year is planned with a structural surplus of 0.7% of GDP. I do not know exactly the budgets of other countries, but I assume that those budgets, which are in structural surpluses, will probably not be very large among the Member States of the European Union next year. So our public finances are still in very good shape.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U11	Two locally registered questions can now be submitted. Starts with colleague Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U12	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! Public finances are fine, but if we look at growth, or GDP growth, compared to last year, there is nothing very positive here. We predicted an increase of more than 3%, but if you look at the third quarter, we're around 0.9%. Latvia, for example, has an increase of 3.8%; Latvia has become like a new Europe. How do you assess our current economic situation? Is this progress, immobilisation or perhaps backward development?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U13	Thank you. If the economy is growing, it is, of course, progress and certainly not going backwards. Yes, our economic growth is modest, but let us make a few concessions in the case of this third quarter's modesty. First, it was said that economic growth was 0.4%, then corrected and said that 0.7%. If we now look at Eurostat data, it turns out that the seasonally adjusted growth rate was 0.9% instead. We do not have to be ashamed of economic growth in Europe's context, although we naturally want growth to be much greater than it is now. Latvia and Lithuania are currently the success stories of the European Union. We are probably also in different phases of the economic cycle. Estonia is a little ahead of development and it is expressed in inflation, while in some cases development is even expressed in deflation. We've had a period of deflation a long time ago, and our neighbors are running out of it right now. So we're developing in a relatively similar way. All three Baltic States have come out of the crisis at a very rapid pace. Estonia succeeded first, but Latvia and Lithuania are indeed the success stories of the European Union today. Compared to the forecasts of the nominal growth of the economy of Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Finance, there is no difference. The projections for real growth are different, but for example, by 2015 Eesti Pank will forecast the nominal growth of the economy in excess of that of the Ministry of Finance. Eesti Pank's forecast is not more conservative for all parameters. On the contrary, for some parameters, the Ministry of Finance has been much more conservative.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U14	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U15	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Several Estonian opinion leaders have recently expressed their opinion that it is time for the Estonian state to start borrowing for investments. Let me give you some examples. If the road to Tallinn was built for loan money, I think it would have been built ten times cheaper than we are building now. Let me give you another example. Next year, about 10% of the builders will probably lose their jobs. Has the government discussed possible borrowing and are you still of the opinion that this government will not borrow?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U16	Thank you. This government has taken out a loan. We have, as we know, taken EUR 550 million in loans from the European Investment Bank to co-finance projects financed by the European Union during the crisis. So the claim that the government has not taken out a loan is not true. We've taken out a loan. It is also true that the debt burden of the Estonian government is still the smallest in the European Union, just below 10% of GDP. That's how you keep it. In those countries where it was decided to boost the economy by borrowing and create jobs, it has been achieved that the largest cost item in the budget is the servicing of loans. I do not think that this would be a good future for Estonia. Let it be said once again that there is a very strong correlation between public debt and unemployment in the Member States of the European Union: the higher the public debt, the higher the unemployment rate. There is also a very strong correlation between the government debt ratio and economic growth: the higher the government debt ratio, the lower the growth rate. The dream of a loan making the economy run faster somehow remains a dream. The reality is that whoever takes the loan remains liable to pay very high interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U18	The next question is from colleague Jüri Morozov to regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! In the area of government of the Minister for Regional Affairs, a municipal reform plan was drawn up on 6 March 2013 which included, among other things, a timetable for the implementation of the reform. It provided for the Riigikogu to adopt the Act on the Implementation of Government Reform in December 2013. This is the last session of the Riigikogu this year, but there is nothing to be heard about this bill. What is the state of preparation of the draft law implementing the municipal reform and when could it reach the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U20	Thank you. In the work of the Riigikogu, you have also had contact with other drafts that have been signed up for entry into force, but the entry into force of which is postponed. They used to say that man thinks, but God's in charge. Indeed, in March, I proposed that the Riigikogu should discuss this draft already in December. But in March, we presented this intention to the drafting of the law to other ministries. We received very constructive feedback and, for example, very critical feedback from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice. We have taken these comments into account. The local government development think tank advised us to order two additional analyses. This has also been the case in the meantime. According to the proposal, which you know as your former and very competent head of government, we submitted this draft text to the public consultation circle and received feedback from it. As you know, it took more time than we knew at first. The proposals about Harju County came from Harju County Elder only last week. Now we have 62 tensile centers assigned. This draft has been accessible to everyone, everyone has been familiar with it, and now that we have also taken into account the proposals from the consultation circle and the proposals from Harjumaa, this draft can be moved forward and presented to other ministries for coordination.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U21	Please, Mr Morozov, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! In the same plan that we are talking about, it is written that you sent a questionnaire on different models to municipalities, local government umbrella organisations, rural governments, experts, etc. You received 67 responses, 32 of which were unambiguously in favour of the model of attraction centres. In fact, the municipal reform plan based on the model of the attraction centres received a grant of 12 to 13% from those to whom you sent questionnaires, and this scheme also lacks the acceptance of your government partner. Is it reasonable to continue with this, or is it still necessary to clarify which direction is right and what everyone accepts before continuing to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U23	Obviously, in such a sensitive area, it will not be possible to make a plan that is absolutely suitable for everyone, so that every resident of Estonia could say that it is exactly the plan that he wants. But we understand that the public sector must adapt to the changed circumstances. You have probably been in public discussions where these six proposed scenarios for the future have been discussed. The model of the draw centres has proved to be the most widely supported. I have publicly stated that this is not my favorite model, because I would like a more radical change. But the discussions have led to strong support for this model. Its substantive theoretical background is very similar to the reform that was carried out in Estonia in the 1930s and based on the model of Christaller's headquarters. It also has a very strong substantive justification behind it. As regards the acceptance by the government partner, the coalition working group is working on the reform of the municipality. I dare say that our government partner also thinks that this model of attraction centres is the best of these six models. The question is, how strong is the co-ordination or co-ordination in this mechanism. Here we have our differences of opinion, as we know publicly. There are differences of opinion as to whether state intervention should be stronger or more milder, not so much about which model to choose.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U24	Please, Mr Morozov, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U25	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister! Like you said, man thinks, but God leads. I agree that life goes on. You know very well that rural development strategies are now being updated, because a new period of European Union funding is coming. But I have no conviction that this programme of attraction centres is the most acceptable. This is not the case, the support for this scheme is relatively small. How do you think it makes sense, on the basis of a municipal reform plan that has not found one and clear support, to plan regional investments without knowing what direction our local administration is going to take?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U26	I don't think we should be looking for a connection here. Also, the place where the municipality house is located does not have to be the only place that receives support from the Structural Funds. We still need to look at our needs, where we need to build roads, clean up the schoolhouse, or do other things. The choice of attraction centres does not mean that we do not pay any attention to other places on the Estonian map. In this sense, there is no need to make a distinction. However, as regards the extent to which one or the other scheme is supported, the attraction centre scheme is the most popular of the six. We have commissioned two public opinion studies which, according to the research company, were quite representative of Estonia; the sample was large enough. It turned out that the people who supported this model were twice as much as the opponents of this model. Everyone can also consult the results of these studies on our Ministry's website. People have embraced that idea. Maybe some public sector employees have a problem, maybe he'll ask what happens to him. But most people clearly accept this choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U27	Two locally registered questions can now be submitted. My colleague Jaan Apple Tree.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U28	Thank you. Dear Minister, You are talking about models, but I think it is obvious that only the redrafting of the Estonian map will bring about nothing about the organisation and reform of the administration. Rather, I would have liked to hear from you about the functions of the local government, the private sector and the third sector, the provision of solutions, and I would also have liked to hear your thoughts on funding. But since it's the end of the year, Christmas is about to come, and the new year is about to come, I have two questions for you. Are you satisfied with your 2013 activities, what you have done for Estonia's regional balance? What are your promises to local authorities next year so that they can take better care of their people with the support of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U29	Good Jaan Apple Tree! I think I've done a lot of the same thing you did as regional minister. When you read your comments at the time, you can see that there is not much difference. When we are talking about the merger of local governments, I would remind you that you brought a draft law to facilitate the merger of local government units into this hall. This law has subsequently been amended several times on my initiative. All parliamentary parties have supported the idea that accession should be encouraged. They've thought there's more money to pay for it. If the municipalities join, we'll pay for it. If you think this is not a good idea, why are you proposing to pay for it? Therefore, you also believe that the merger is reasonable. The question is how many municipalities we so-called after or rush to join in a merger. As far as this year is concerned, looking at the initiatives that have been taken in our area, it can be said that a number of things have gone very well, such as the service centre support programme, a new regional programme that has helped village shops to survive. We have changed the principles of the settlement support programme: people living in the countryside will receive support, for example, to fix a section of the road to their farm or to buy an autonomous electricity supply package. There are other initiatives that have gone quite well and found people's approval.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U30	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U31	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. At the end of the administrative-territorial reform that you have proposed (i.e. 2018) it is intended to abolish the position of Minister of Regional Affairs. How do you justify that? If you have understood that the main objective of the regional minister's activities is to carry out administrative reform, I say to you that I believe that, even after any administrative reform, Estonia will still remain within its former borders and all the problems of regional development and regional policy remain. I remember that when this office was created in the government of its own time, it was precisely in order for the Minister for Regional Affairs to analyse and evaluate the regional political impact of drafts and proposals coming from all other ministries. At the moment, however, it seems that this task has been left behind.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U32	Actually, it's the other way around. It is now the procedure that needs to be assessed from the perspective of regional impacts. According to the agreement, the explanatory memorandums on draft laws that come to this hall must, unlike in the past, also have an assessment of the regional impact. In Estonia, investments made on the ground to achieve regional balance have been very much supported in recent years. A very important part of euro has gone to smaller places in particular. If you compare us to our neighbour, Latvia, for example, then the difference is obvious. Consider, for example, what our country schools, kindergartens, and public houses looked like ten years ago. Change is great. Of course, it is a question of political choices which member of the government should have the direct political responsibilities. I'm sure every coalition will discuss it. But I think that in 2018 Estonia will have somewhat different tasks than it did ten years ago. I expect that, after the next elections in the Riigikogu, the coalition negotiations will also consider what are politically important issues, such as energy or some other subject. In the Nordic countries, whom we set an example, this is exactly the way the coalition negotiations will determine the areas of activity of ministers: on the basis of what are at this point the most politically important issues in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U33	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U34	The next question is from my colleague Valeri Korb to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U35	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! I understand that some difference in the relative poverty rate of the population in the different regions of Estonia is inevitable. However, the problem is to what extent these differences can be considered acceptable and to which extent they are excessive. According to Statistics Estonia, the relative poverty rate in the poorest region of Estonia is 28.9% in Ida-Virumaa. This is almost one-and-a-half times the average poverty rate in the country, which is 17.6%, and twice the poverty rate in Harjumaa. My question has to do with this. Does the government consider such a situation to be acceptable?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U36	Thank you. In terms of the relative poverty rate, Estonia is among the European Union's Member States in the middle. Also, in terms of the share of people living in absolute poverty, we are among the European Union's averages. However, as you rightly pointed out, the proportion of people living in absolute or relative poverty varies from region to region. The two most problematic regions are Ida-Virumaa, where the proportion of people living in relative poverty is highest in Estonia, and Valgamaa, where there are the most people living in absolute poverty. According to the latest Statistical Office press release, the number of people living in relative poverty has increased in Estonia. There are also reasons why the relative poverty rate in Estonia is rising. This threshold, below which people are considered to be living in relative poverty, has increased by as much as EUR 30 over the year: EUR 299 in 2011 and EUR 329 in 2012. Wages have increased quite rapidly in Estonia and the number of pensioners living in relative poverty has increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U37	Thank you. Please, Mr Valeri Korb, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U38	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. But I'm still asking about Ida-Viru County. Does the government monitor how the rate of poverty in Ida-Virumaa and Estonia changes on average over the years, what are the trends and how this development takes place?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U39	Thank you. As the standard of living in Estonia as a whole increases, it also rises in Ida-Virumaa. As the Estonian economy grows, the economy grows in Ida-Virumaa. There are no other trends or trends in Ida-Viru County. We would, of course, like Estonia to develop more evenly and also to distribute revenue across Estonia more evenly, but unfortunately, the lion's share of Estonia's GDP is created in Tallinn, Harjumaa and Tartu. As a result, differences in income across regions are also understandable in the analysis. Ida-Viru County is currently developing the right number of industrial areas and new projects. As in all Estonia, employment is increasing in Ida-Virumaa. I look forward to the future. I believe that Ida-Viru County will not be the first in the ranking of relative poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U40	Please, Mr Valeri Korb, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U41	Thank you. With regard to the answer to my previous question, I had another question. If so, how does the state plan to achieve this objective of reducing relative poverty rates and improving the development of Ida-Viru County make use of internal reserves? How is the resources from the European Union to be used for the development of Ida-Virumaa planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U42	Thank you. I don't want to go along with this drama in Ida-Virumaa. I quite consciously mentioned that the proportion of people living in absolute poverty is the highest in Valga county, not at all in Ida-Virumaa. Does it matter if, for example, 11.3% of people live in absolute poverty in Pärnu County and 11.4% in Ida-Viru County? It is still a statistical gap within the measurement error. I can't read any black depression out of it. Statistics do not say that Ida-Viru County is significantly different from other counties in terms of poverty. The reform of child benefits, which has started this year and will reach full strength by 2015, will have a significant impact on the number of people living in relative poverty and children living in absolute poverty. Need-based child support will certainly reduce the number of people living in both relative and absolute poverty in Estonia. After all, it is known that the poorest families with single parents are mostly, and it is especially for them that the need-based child benefit is intended. If you want to tell your voters what specifically awaits them, please also talk about need-based child support.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U43	Two locally registered questions can now be submitted. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U44	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! If we're talking about Virumaa, I can't keep quiet as a rookie. We know that all these 20 years of freedom, or a little longer, have been discussed about the potential of Virumaa, given its mineral resources, industrial structure, etc. People believe that a bright future will come, and this potential will certainly be exploited. At present, however, a large number of people cannot sense this potential in their pockets. Perhaps you can tell me before Christmas, when will the people of Virumaa begin to feel that there is such potential and wealth? Is it already the case with the next government that these figures are going to rise above average?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U45	Thank you. With that feeling, the government can't predict it. While Estonia is mostly located in the first part of the rankings drawn up in the world, for example, according to the UN Human Development Report, Estonia is 33rd in the world among almost 200 countries, we do not know how to reach this high. Let's just remember the PISA test. This confirms that Estonian education is at the top of the world, but if our people (I now refer to the previous Human Development Report) have to evaluate the Estonian education system in the ten-ball system, then the result is just over 6. We think our education is and isn't, he's out there somewhere in the meantime. Unfortunately, this is also the case with an assessment of the standard of living. As we compare the objective parameters, we are far ahead of Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, but if you look at the latest human development report, you will see that we are cognitively behind them. Why is that so is difficult for me to explain, but somehow it has gone so far that we do not value our own achievements very much. We can't be satisfied with what we have. Rather, we are dissatisfied with everything that we still do not have. Maybe it's good, and maybe that's why we've been doing very well, objectively, compared to our former destiny mates. If Estonia as a whole develops, Ida-Virumaa will also develop.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U46	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U47	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! I am not asking specifically about Valgamaa or Ida-Virumaa; I am asking a question about Estonia. Child benefits and the issue of relative and absolute poverty in relation to children have already come up here. In processing the draft State Budget Act 2014, the Chairman of the Monetary Commission said a lot of questions that school food support should not be non-disciplined, but should be needs-based. At the moment, it is very good in Estonia that we have one over nine. school food up to class free of charge. It is true that the support, which is EUR 0.78, is small and time-bound, it does not cover the costs and municipalities put more in it. Now, however, the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs said that the principle of this support should be reviewed. I know that's not gonna happen in 2014, but has the cabinet talked about this? Believe me, free school food is also a measure that alleviates poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U48	Thank you. Yes, I believe, of course, that free school food helps to alleviate poverty in very many cases. Estonia has stood out in Europe, but also in comparison with OECD Member States, in that there was no need-based support in Estonia until the need-based child benefits were introduced. In this sense, we were completely unique among the Member States of the European Union. It is true that there have also been very few needs-based subsidies in Luxembourg. In all the other Member States of the European Union, grants are distributed more or less proportionally into needs-based and universal support. The amounts of support shall be distributed in the same way. My personal view of school food is that I do not think that the system that was in place during the Soviet era, when families in difficult economic circumstances could have applied for free school food for children, would have been best pedagogically. As we know, identity issues are quite persistent. If someone has to go and apply for any benefits because their family is poor all the time, it may not produce the best pedagogical results. In all parts of the world, including the European Union, it is possible to differentiate grants, both universally and on a need-based basis. Only Estonia, until recently, preferred only the sharing of universal subsidies, which is certainly not right and certainly not effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U49	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U50	The next question is from Mr Vassilyev to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U51	Thank you. Good minister! My question is topical across Estonia, and certainly also in Virumaa. Indeed, a year ago, there was a serious debate that the government decided to increase environmental charges significantly more steeply than it decided in 2009. Remember, the Social Democrats were quite critical of this behavior. You don't have to read a lot of maliciousness about drawing parallels here with this autumn Riigikogu debate on tax issues. There have been various amounts which the country will either have to repay or which will not be paid in the coming years. In the case of repayment, there has been talk of EUR 4.8 million; in the case of loss of income, there has been talk of higher amounts. How are these holes to be compensated?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U52	Thank you. I remember that the Social Democrats have always wanted to tax oil shale resources far above what they have done so far, for example. I agree more or less with you on that. It is well known that current resource charges do not compensate for environmental damage. It is perfectly natural to expect that the damage caused to the environment will be compensated by those who have caused it. Therefore, neither I nor the Government nor the Riigikogu was involved and it can be said that even in the eyes of the Supreme Court, there was no wrong request to impose higher fees. It was wrong, however, that some sort of time series was introduced at the level of the government, how much resource charges will increase in some year up to 2015. According to the Supreme Court, the establishment or listing of such a time series created a legitimate expectation in those who are directly affected by these resource charges. If the Riigikogu had decided that the resource fee would be increased once or ten times in the following year, there would have been no obstacle to doing exactly the same in the coming years. The Supreme Court's decision, however, is for everyone to comply. At the moment, this means that we are moving a little slower towards our goal, towards those responsible for damage to the environment paying for this damage themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U53	Please, Mr Vasilyev, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U54	Thank you. It is certainly the right principle in itself that those who use environmental resources and whose activities have negative side effects on the environment, but also on society or people, are taxed in one form or another. The Social Democrats share this principle. In our view, however, the problem is certainly that, at the same time, the freedom to conduct a business and the legitimate expectations of businesses must be taken into account. In fact, the question was more focused on how the state plans to cover the loss of revenue in the budget for the following year. It is recalled that there was a serious discussion here on the coverage of income lost as a result of the rejection of the additional taxation of passenger cars by companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U55	Thank you. This year we have observed that, despite a considerable increase in environmental charges, mining has significantly intensified. Mining of some natural resources has in some cases even increased exponentially, despite higher rates. Basically, we're not talking about a very large amount of money. If the increase continues at the same rate, the increased amount of mining will also cover the loss of revenue from tariff reductions. Those who, according to the Supreme Court judgment, have paid more than they should have paid, re-compose the declaration and then have to apply for refunds from the Tax and Customs Board. For example, oil shale accounts for 74% of the total resource and 57% of all repayments should go to Eesti Energia. It is not a very wide circle of beneficiaries, the principal amount that will be repaid goes to a state-owned company.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U56	Please, Mr Vasilyev, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U57	Thank you. Your first response gave me the impression that you shared the position of Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. He has said that this decision of the Supreme Court should not be read out that companies should know in advance in the long term possible tax changes, which should lead them to adjust their business plan and make changes in business activities, but rather that in the future the government and the Riigikogu should adopt changes relating to taxes for one year instead of making long-term plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U58	Thank you. There is certainly a need to negotiate tax issues with the parties, but it is probably not worth waiting for warm approval and applause in these cases. At present, the Supreme Court has taken the view that the legitimate expectation arising from the tax increases set by the Government of the Republic until 2015 is dominant and the fact that those responsible for damage to the environment do not compensate for the damage caused to the environment by the resource charge is not so important. I believe that, in the long run, society obviously does not accept that someone is causing damage to the environment anywhere, but does not make up for it in an environment-paid society. It is probably not natural to expect pensioners to pay their pensions for the part of the damage caused to the environment that those who cause the damage themselves do not make up for. There is no reason for anyone's expectation that teachers or doctors should give up the raise simply because those who cause damage to the environment do not fully compensate for it. On one occasion, society will continue to develop in the direction that those who cause the damage will fully pay for it themselves. At present, as a result of the Supreme Court's judgment, progress towards this goal has slowed down, but it has not stopped moving towards it. In 2016, a longer step is likely to be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U59	Two issues registered on-the-spot. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U60	Thank you. Prime Minister! Let me ask you a little bit more. Until now, Estonian companies and people have been very amenable to the law. There have been laws passed here that have had very strong opposition, but if any of the idea of a government coalition has been declared a law, then people have been quietly living by a new law. Now there has been such a sign that one of the parties covered by the law did not agree with the existing law, he gave it to the Supreme Court and that law was repealed. It is likely that the government should draw conclusions from this and act differently in the future. Does this'somehow different' simply mean that in the future tax increases, whether they concern alcohol or whatever, are not done step by step? Or do you see any other way to prevent such practice from becoming the norm that a painful law will always find its way to the Supreme Court as the next step?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U61	Thank you. I specify to you that the Supreme Court has not disputed this law in any way. He challenged the Government's order, but neither has this regulation come close to the maximum rates permitted by law. Thus, in this discussion of the Supreme Court, the law was not the subject of any dispute. The Government of the Republic has stated what fees will be in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. The Supreme Court has found that reporting an upward step at the level of the Government of the Republic regulation has created legitimate expectations among the parties involved, and this expectation dominates the principle that the polluter pays. This principle does not apply, by the way, not only in Estonia, but it is also a very strong principle at European Union level and the rule by which everyone behaves. The Supreme Court did not contest the increase in environmental fees for the purpose of obtaining budget revenue; this was also fully accepted by the Supreme Court. This goal is right, there is nothing wrong with the goal. But if anyone has a legitimate expectation, you mustn't act like one. The Supreme Court considers that this principle of legitimate expectation dominates all possible aspects. The decision of the Supreme Court is mandatory for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U62	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U63	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! As far as the oil shale resource tax is concerned, I am not ashamed to say that last year I brought this issue to this hall. I am pleased that oil shale's resource tax has been introduced and raised. However, when it comes to raw materials for building materials - gravel, limestone, sand, etc. - I was against the resource tax then and I am against it now. This is because we need to look at the development of this industry in the context of industrial development in neighbouring countries. Why did the government go this way to increase the resource tax on the raw materials of construction materials, too, prematurely?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U64	Thank you. I have repeatedly said the justification here today: 'polluter pays'. The cause of the damage to the environment must compensate for that damage. It should be pointed out once again, and also with figures, that, despite the increased rates, mining has intensified. I have a comparison between 2013 and 2010. The extraction of gravel has increased by 22%; the extraction of clay has increased by 92%; it has almost doubled. Limestone and dolomite have been mined by 32% more in 2013 than in 2010. Mining of oil shale is relatively modest because the Riigikogu has set the border here, the increase is only 5%. However, oil shale mining has also increased, despite the increase in rates. I think the principle is iron, and I don't even want to discuss it very much. Contaminant pays. Putting the obligation to compensate for damage to the environment on someone else, not on the polluter, but on a pensioner, teacher, doctor or policeman, is not fair to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U65	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, Question Time is running out. This was the last Question Time of this year. Thank you very much, colleagues, for asking questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister and Minister, for your answer. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U66	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday of the 12th working week. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. You don't want to do that. Let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Packaging Act and the Packaging Excise Act, initiated on 16 December, of which the commission is the Committee on the Environment, and the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Medical Device Act, initiated on 16 December, of which the commission is the Committee on Social Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18. Let's clarify the agenda. Today we will proceed with the first reading of agenda item 6 of yesterday's sitting, the draft amendment to the Road Act § 16 of the Estonian Central Party Group. This is now item No 1 of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U67	Let's start working on this point. I would like a member of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme, to speak to you! Questions will continue to be asked and answered. Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U68	Thank you. Good colleague! We are talking about the amount of excise duty on fuel and the millions of euros that will be directed towards the maintenance and repair of roads. But I want to know what you think. How much money is used to maintain and repair roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U69	Thank you. Fuel excise is collected around EUR 300 million and will be about 50% for road maintenance and repair. The remaining 50% will cover the other expenditures of the state budget. Local authorities will receive around 10% of this excise duty next year, which is 1.2 million euros less than for example in 2013. Between 2009 and 2012, municipalities received 6.5% in the middle. To be clear, local governments own 41% of the total length of Estonian roads, but they only receive 10% of the excise duty. That's the problem. We want to increase this proportion of excise duty over the next few years and reach 30% in 2017 of excise duties on fuel to be received by local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U70	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U71	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good colleague Tarmo! When you prepared this bill, did you talk about such an issue as the inventory of roads? We need to make a technical inventory of roads, a register, etc., in order to clean up the road economy on the municipal side. Then we would know what the real situation is in the road economy. Money, as you know, is never much, it's always missing. Didn't you want to put in the draft such things as those on the technical side, so that we would have tea in the future that would hold up? Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U72	Thank you. That's a good question. Local authorities make investments over a longer period of time, but they must have a financial cover for this. If they don't have financial cover, the investment plan itself doesn't provide anything. Actually, it's patching holes. There is no funding in local government budgets to build something new. But the local governments are working on the road register anyway, because the accuracy of the register depends on how much money they get from excise duties on fuel. They're interested in keeping all roads and streets on the register. This is the direction that needs to be pursued, but it requires stable financing of municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U73	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U74	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague Tarmo! Yesterday has become today, and today there are more listeners in the hall than yesterday. Would you be so good as to give a brief overview of this bill? Maybe not everyone's heard it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U75	Please, Mr Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U76	Thank you. I'll be very brief. We have initiated a draft amendment to § 16 of the Road Act. The aim is for local governments to receive 15% of fuel excise for road maintenance in 2014, 20% in 2015, 25% in 2016 and 30% from 2017. We want it to be enshrined in the law and local governments to have a stable income base, a certainty that they can use this money every year, not as they do now. Currently, the amount of money allocated depends on the will of the Minister, who allocates either 5%, 6% or 10% to local authorities. In 2008, even 15% was allocated. This was already some amount of money that the local authorities could use to keep you in some shape.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good colleague! You were the head of local government for a long time. I'm sure all the roads in Põlva County have been under the wheels of your car. How do you even assess the road network in Põlva County? Can the current quality of these roads be compared to their former condition?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U78	Thank you. I certainly haven't been through all the roads in Põlva County, but the streets of Põlva City, 29 kilometers in total, I've been through many times and I know what their condition is. One aspect that has not been given much attention is that local authorities are in very different situations. Some municipalities, such as some cities, pass state-owned roads that the state repairs and maintains. Some of you may have wondered why Otepää or Tõrva has such a clean way or why a very long new section of the road was built in Räpina. These roads belong to the state, and they seem to have resources for them. One solution would be that the main roads that pass through the cities would be handed over to the country, then perhaps they could be fixed. But this situation, which is now, is not normal. That is what we all understand, because we travel on the roads of local governments every day and also on national roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U79	Please, Mr Peep Aru, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U80	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, After all, the purpose of this draft is to change the proportion of money allocated for the construction and repair of roads in favour of the municipalities. But if this bill were to become a law, and over the years, 30% of excise duties on fuel would go to the municipalities, what are you predicting, what consequences would this have for the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U81	Thank you. That would certainly be fairer. I have also said in the past that local governments own 41% of the total length of Estonian roads, and the state only 31%. Next year, about 10% of excise duties on fuel will be allocated to local authorities, 30% would be fairer. I gave an example yesterday that traffic intensity on city streets is five or six times higher than on Tallinn Road, for example. It's been measured, that's right. You can also see for yourself that the traffic load on the streets is much higher than on the roads. But I don't think this confrontation is right, we can't oppose the government and the state. In fact, we are all happy to be on good roads. In my opinion, the opposite is not constructive.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U82	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Tarmo Tamm. Kalev Lillo, member of the Economic Commission for the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U83	President-in-Office of the Council. Colleagues! I will give you an overview of the debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs on the draft amendment of the Road Act § 16 initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Tarmo Tamm, the initiator of the bill, introduced the draft and answered the questions. Julia Bergštein, Head of the Road Service of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Lauri Künnapuu, expert at the Road Service, attended the meeting, who presented the views of the Government of the Republic and provided further explanations. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications explained, among other things, that the road maintenance plan for state roads indicates that up to 10% of the road maintenance resources provided for by the Road Act will be used for the storage of local roads. The financing of all roads is linked to the forecast of excise collection. The financing of roads, including municipal roads, is therefore different each year. The Centre Party has a desire to increase this percentage. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications pointed out that if there is a proper overview of state roads, including the traffic load there, the only thing that is known about the roads of local governments is what the municipalities enter in the road register, in essence only the length of roads is known. There was a debate. There is an analogous draft procedure, which has been submitted by the Social Democrats. I was curious what would happen to it. In response, we heard that in 2011 the Social Democratic Party submitted a draft 22 to the procedure requesting that the funding of local roads be increased to 15%. The Centre Party's draft, however, envisages an increase in funding up to 30%. The Social Democratic Party supports the draft initiated by the Central Party Group. It was also asked to explain why the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications considers state roads more important than local roads. A representative of the Ministry explained that they do not consider state roads to be more important, but prefer roads with more traffic. It was pointed out that outside Tallinn, about 70% of the traffic load falls on state roads. There was also the view that the roads were not a political problem, that the financing problem had to be resolved, and that further work had to be done. Then they went to decision-making. A consensual proposal was made to put this draft on the plenary agenda by 17 December 2013 and proposed to reject it (four Commission members voted in favour, three against, no abstentions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U84	Thank you very much, Mr Kalev Lillo. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U85	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, If you ask the audience about the law that the local government must organise to avoid local roads, most or at least those who have ever worked in the local government will respond correctly. But if you ask what law the local government must finance road maintenance, it is unlikely that anyone will be able to answer that question. That's the problem we're talking about right now. Can you explain, on behalf of the Commission, under which law the municipality must finance road maintenance?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U86	On behalf of the Commission, I cannot say this because we did not address this issue in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U87	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Kalev! As we know, this issue has been up a long time ago. As you said, this problem has been dealt with in advance by means of draft laws, but it has not succeeded. Similarly, these issues have been addressed in the negotiations between local government delegations and the Government of the Republic delegation. Did the Commission also discuss the question of whether the funds are scarce or, as the other party claims, sufficient resources, but they are not able to be used properly? Did you have that kind of discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U89	Certainly, the lack of money was also mentioned in our debate. Money's always low. The purpose of this draft is to increase the amount of money going to municipalities. However, the government's view is that this cannot be done now, because funding for state roads is not enough either. The government considers this support (10% of fuel excise duty) to be sufficient for the municipalities to cope.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U90	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U91	Thank you. Honourable waitress! It is very nice to travel on the state highway from Tallinn to Tartu and Tartu to Tallinn, but you have to turn away from this highway from time to time. Do you think that those who voted against the Centre Party bill do not consider it important that, for example, in Tartu, Valga and Võru, there is a decent way for people to drive so that they do not break up the car and get from point A to point B painlessly?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U92	Thank you for your question. Of course, all members of the Economic Commission consider the situation of roads to be important even in smaller places; not only do we consider national roads to be important. This is also the point of view that I read out that it was jointly found that this was not a political issue, but a substantive issue. It cannot be said that the state has not come to the aid of cities or municipalities either. First, large objects have been repaired in Tallinn and Tartu. Secondly, the project-based activity that was launched last year by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications: the 'continuing roads' that pass through cities will be put in place. Last year it was done in six cities, including Haapsalu, Rapla, I think Jõhvi. That's all I can remember.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U93	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U94	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Honourable Commission waitress. As you have already mentioned, a similar draft tabled by the Socialists in April 2011 was under discussion in the Commission. I remember that its first reading was in September 2011 and then it was put on the shelf. Let me remind you of what you have also said that it was our desire to separate 15% of the excise duty on the fuel we are receiving from the local authorities. What do you think, as a very influential coalition member, will this bill be taken off the shelf before 2015? If the answer is positive, thank you in advance!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U95	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U96	Thanks for the compliment! I'm not sure I can tell you what's going to happen to this bill or what's going to happen. But I understand that the development plan for the transportation of the Riigikogu hall will soon arrive, where we may be able to find out these possible directions. On the basis of this development plan, we can see if it is possible to increase the support for local roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U97	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, It is said that the problem is about money, but the problem with this bill is not about money at all. Fuel excise duty is, in my opinion, the most targeted tax. If only less than 50% of this excise duty comes from road maintenance, then it is not about money, it is about political choices. As a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, you should understand perfectly that the longer we wait to fix the roads, the greater the amount needed will increase. We could still use 75% of the excise duty for tea storage, as required by the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U98	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U99	Thank you for your question. The Economic Commission did not have the information you have just provided, and I do not have it today either. But I dare say that the state will contribute as much as possible to supporting local government roads and will do so on the basis of the thickness of its wallet.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U100	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You gave an overview of how the discussion took place, and one side or the other highlighted its understanding. However, I still did not understand what this fundamental argument was to prevent further discussion of the draft tabled by the Group of the Centre Party. Explain, please, with one sentence, without comments, to make sense!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U101	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U102	Thank you. I will make a letter from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, where this draft will be commented on, and I will find the place where this reason is given: 'The amount of state support for the storage of local roads is fit to be determined separately for each financial year, as currently provided for in the Tea Act. The annual amount of support for local roads will be reviewed during the preparation of the state budget. '
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U103	Thank you. First of all, I will comment on the opinion of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. This certainly makes sense from the point of view of the state, because then you can see how much money is left over and what the situation is, and that is how much the local governments will be given. This certainly does not make sense from the perspective of the municipality, which has to plan its activities a little longer than a few months in advance. In this sense, unfortunately, I cannot agree with the understanding of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. But I am not a member of the Economic Commission, and that is why I have a question. I understand that this subsidy is considered by the State as an additional amount allocated to municipalities in order to enable them to carry out the tasks assigned to them. I don't know any local governments in Estonia who can handle these tasks. Did the Commission talk about whether anyone knows a rural municipality or a city where the roads are well?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U104	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U105	There was no such debate in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U106	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, According to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the money received from excise duties on fuel to the state budget does not have to be used on an ad hoc basis, i.e. it is not possible to mark an equal mark between the amounts of excise duties on fuel and the amounts used for the repair. They're just talking about proportions. Is such an approach reasonable? In fact, we all have an understanding that it is a targeted money. Just now, in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, this issue was raised and a representative of the Ministry of Finance made it clear that we cannot put an equal sign between it. At the same time, we know and feel that this money should be targeted. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U107	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U108	As a representative of the Commission, I must point out that there was no such treatment in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U109	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good speaker! The last answers have nothing to hear but that you did not have such a debate and that you did not have a second debate. I have a direct question for you. Has the Economic Commission of the Riigikogu been elected by the heads of department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, who conduct government policy, or are the representatives of the electorate in Estonia's rural areas discussing the issue of roads and the role of local governments, who represent the interests of their voters? Has there ever been a debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs that seeks to protect its constituents?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U110	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U111	Thank you. It is well known that a member of the Riigikogu must not work in the state office. Consequently, the first part of the question falls away. But, of course, we have discussed a number of and a number of questions about this rate, which is actually the interests of voters. It's our day-to-day job.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U112	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You said, as one of the reasons why national roads get more money, that there is more traffic. Let me give you another example. It is very good to drive to Narva on the Tallinn-Narva highway, but if you cross the Narva border, you can feel it physically. Does this direction of Tallinna herald to Narva or Tallinna herald to the city border, or does it still go to the state border? Nearly ten streets are being driven to the border, and they are all in a very bad situation. So what does the municipality have to do, do they have to put money in a national or international direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U113	Thank you. That's a good question. Against this background, I stopped a little while ago. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has a separate programme to support the maintenance of roads that pass through cities, either to the port, to the border or to such a place, and we call it where Narva can ask for extra money in order to maintain its roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U114	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Kalev Lillo. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to invite my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin as a representative of the Central Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U115	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, four fifths of the Riigikogu have left the hall and they will not know what the dispute between the local government and the central government is about the financing of road maintenance. But I would remind you that on 25 December 1999, the Law of Tea was passed. It annulled the Law on Roads, which was adopted in 1991. These are completely different laws in many ways, including terms. The 1991 Road Act and the 1996 Amendment Act concerned only roads, and the 1999 Road Act dealt with roads, including streets and local roads. The obligation laid down in the Road Act, which came into force since 1992, to finance municipal roads to avoid the rural municipality's budget was null and void, since the first system of local government financing did not allow the municipality's revenue base to be planned for this purpose. When the local government system was established in 1989, the local government foundation law was passed and the first system of financing was developed, there was no such obligation in the law, so there was no basis for allocating the funds. In 1992, the Road Act, which came into force three years after the introduction of the financing system, said nothing about the storage of streets or the financing of its activities. When the Road Act was adopted, the revenue of the municipality was not improved, nor was there any legislation that would have provided for the financing of road maintenance. They just didn't exist. It should be pointed out that only funds for summer and winter maintenance could be planned for the storage of the streets transferred to the cities, as there were no other funds in the public utility budget. I would point out that the funds for road repair and construction came from the state budget and were carried out centrally. It must also be added that, since the beginning of the 1990s, ownership reform and land reform were launched and the distribution of joint holdings' assets started. Thus, the income base of the one-tier municipality, which was developed by the end of 1993, could not include the means of saving local roads, since the municipalities, for example, did not have you yet. If the roads owned by the State had also been transferred to the municipality by the Public Road Administration, it did not add any cents to the municipality's income base. The commitments were made, the money was given, to ensure that they were fulfilled, and no further commitments were made. As an aside, even in statistics, local roads and streets began to be reflected only from the beginning of this century. Again, how could the central government have assigned resources to the local government's revenue base for road maintenance without even knowing the existence of roads? Thus, the 1999 Road Act and its explanatory memorandum are the first documents to deal more specifically with the avoidance and financing of local roads. I quote from the explanatory memorandum to this law: 'The road law of the Republic of Estonia only deals with roads, i.e. roads located outside cities, towns and towns. At the level of the law, the organisation of the storage, protection and use of cities, towns and towns is not regulated. ' With regard to financing, I also quote: 'Section 15 of the draft Road Act deals with the organisation of road savings financing. Due to the compactness of the Estonian territory and the road network, the state, local and private roads and streets have been considered as a single whole, the costs of which for storage and, as far as possible, development would also come from a single source. ' There's an even longer explanation here, but because of the lack of time, I can't introduce it to you. Anyone can look at it from the archives. As a result of the above, the basis for funding in the draft Road Act was regulated in such a way that road maintenance was financed by means of telecommunications capital, which was to be implemented from 1 January 2000. There wasn't any tea capital, it didn't come. The Road Act was adopted by providing for the financing of road maintenance from the state budget and not from the local government budget. The rhetoric used by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Public Road Administration that the state budget allocates only support to the municipality for road maintenance, since the basic resources are in the municipality's income base, are not valid and are not confirmed by any legislation. Thus, there is no provision in the Tea Act or any other legislation in force to say that local roads are being financed from the local budget. The local government is in a state of compulsion because you cannot be left unattended; otherwise, it is simply not possible to guarantee the mobility of residents. Road maintenance works are carried out at the expense of other expenditure and in insufficient volume. This has left other services underfunded. Very approximate estimates of the money needed to store local roads say that this amount is EUR 105260000 each year. If fuel excise duties are collected every year at EUR 300-340 million, then the 30% of the excise duty that we arrive at thanks to this bill is what ensures the maintenance of local roads. The state does not want to give this money to the local government because it would increase the autonomy of the local government, which the state seems to be, is currently not interested. I will also briefly comment on this question, which was raised by my colleague, Mr Peep Aru. What are the consequences for the State if 30% of the excise duty on fuel goes to the municipality? The first consequence is that the country will have less money to save its way. This means that the state will be forced to think through the use of tea money more properly. The last audit by the National Audit Office showed that the state does not even know how much money is needed to repair. With the first bang, the answer was that EUR 220 million went to repair roads in 2008-2012, after which it became apparent that EUR 330 million. Only one in four works in the field of the repair can be done on time. Norms are old, they're 30 years old. The Devil knows what happens to excise duties on fuel that are transferred to other budget articles and replaced with European money and borrowed funds. So, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the municipalities is inescapable. Please support this Central Party bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U116	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. As the lead committee has proposed to reject draft 489 at first reading, we need to vote through this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please vote! 51 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 28 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported, i.e. draft 489 has fallen out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U117	The third reading of the draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Since the adoption of this law requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, please do a check-in! 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 21. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the final vote the draft law amending the Act on the Election of the European Parliament, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 520. Please vote! 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U118	The third reading of the draft act 522 on the amendment of the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Unions initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, we can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote on the final vote on the draft law amending the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Unions initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 522. Please vote! 63 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no votes against and 1 abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U119	The second reading of draft 442 Act on the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Inclusion of Children in Armed Conflicts initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Rein Aidma, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Office, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U120	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was dealt with by the Riigikogu at first reading on 11 September 2013. Currently, the Penal Code does not have a composition in accordance with Article 4 (2) of the Optional Protocol. Therefore, and also because of other questions, the Government of the Republic of Estonia initiated on 9 December 2013 a draft law amending the Penal Code and related other laws 554. Paragraph 1 (57) of this draft provides for the amendment of the Penal Code to include § 1023 in the following wording: 'Inclusion of a child in armed conflict. The taking or recruitment of a person younger than eighteen years of age into the armed forces of the State or separate from the armed forces of the State, or the inclusion in military activities of an armed group, shall be punishable by between one and five years of imprisonment. ' Since this amendment to the Penal Code is in Riigikogu proceedings, the Social Affairs Committee decided at its meeting on Tuesday 10 December to send a draft of 442 to the plenary session by 18 December. This proposal was adopted by consensus. Secondly, a second reading was proposed to be closed and a final vote (this decision was also adopted by consensus). There was also a consensual proposal to approve the text of the second reading of draft law 442. Finally, between the first reading and the second reading, no amendments to the draft law were tabled in the large hall of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U121	Thank you very much, Mr Rein Aidma. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. As no amendments have been received, we can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote on the final vote on the draft Act 442 on the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Inclusion of Children in Armed Conflicts initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 34 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U122	The second reading of the draft law amending and implementing the law on law enforcement initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. For a presentation, I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, this is a very innovative draft that deals with the implementation of a law such as the Law on Law Enforcement. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this seven times and held a small seminar in the meantime so that all members of the Committee on Legal Affairs could bring themselves up to date. On 12 November 2013, the Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously decided that the draft would be sent to plenary for second reading by 18 December. On the basis of consensus, it was also proposed to suspend the second reading and to set 20 December 2013 as the deadline for the submission of amendments. Meanwhile, 141 amendments had been received. The Committee on Legal Affairs examined them all thoroughly and decided to support almost everyone. But the two days, when there is time to table amendments, are designed to allow all members of the Riigikogu to look at the amendments tabled and also the draft and, if necessary, to make further amendments if they consider it necessary. That's all for short.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U124	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. There are no questions for you. Let's keep going. I'm opening negotiations. Peter Võsa, colleague of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U125	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank God we don't go on with this bill right now, at least take a break and think about it! The law on law enforcement adopted a few years ago, but not yet implemented, states that the administrative body of another state may be involved in ensuring public order on the territory of the Republic of Estonia. Currently, the law states that the body involved has competence and powers in the territory of Estonia in accordance with the foreign treaty. The amendment gives the right to include in the territory of the Republic of Estonia the competent administrative body of another country or the competent authority of the European Union on the basis of an external agreement or a legal act of the European Union. Thus, in the future, in the Republic of Estonia, officials of the competent authorities of other European Union Member States may also be able to monitor public order in addition to Estonian police officers. In addition, the amendment gives the official of the so-called "body" in that other country the right to use even direct coercion to achieve legitimate objectives. Whoever doesn't know yet, I'll tell them that immediate coercion means affecting a natural person, an animal or a thing by physical force or fire, cold or gas weapons or by special means or by self-defence. I would be extremely surprised if in the Republic of Estonia, in the name of protecting public order, a foreign form, perhaps even an official wearing a turban, would want to identify my identity in the name of public order, who speaks in a foreign language and who, if he does not fully understand me, has the right to use physical force to influence me. To regulate all this with the decision of the minister concerned is a strange solution in the rule of law, which raises the question of how my rights as an Estonian citizen are protected against the unregulatory decisions of that minister. Another surprise is that the law of amendment and implementation has almost been rewritten. This is evidenced by 141 amendments tabled by the initiator of the draft law. I don't think there's a paragraph that hasn't been changed. Has the Estonian legal space changed so much in two years that the whole law has had to be amended by means of additions? There is no clarity as to who is subject to state supervision and what is the role of local government here. The Chancellor of Justice's first opinion on the Law Enforcement Act pointed out that law enforcement, especially the protection of public order, is not just a police task. The draft law does not even want to seek solutions to extend the rights and competences of local authorities under conditions where the police suffer from sub-construction and under-financing. Regulation of public conduct is an elementary way of ensuring public order. The general requirements for public conduct are set out in § 55 of the Law Enforcement Act. Section 5 of this section provides an exhaustive list of places where no alcohol may be consumed. In other places, such as the park or the street, it can probably be completely free to do so. There is a huge noise problem in the Old Town of Tallinn. This has been addressed by the city itself, wishing to impose a restriction on the placement of catering establishments in order to reduce the noise generated by night partyers on the street. This, however, was not supported by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, who said that it unduly restricts the freedom to conduct a business. At the same time, Paragraph 56 (2) of the Law Enforcement Act states that in a non-public place from 22:00 to 6.00, from 00:00 to 7.00 on the night preceding the day of rest, it is prohibited to produce noise or light effects that disturb another person significantly on a continuous or repeated basis. In other words, you have to be quiet and quiet at night, but on the street, which is a public place, you can scream, scream, and shoot as much as it takes. Of course, Paragraph 56 (4) of the Law Enforcement Act, which states that pollution of air in public buildings or public transport is prohibited in a way that significantly disturbs another person. How extensive must the smell be removed and how can it be measured? I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U126	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U127	I'm glad they're stopping reading this accident. The problem seems to be that no one knows how to put everything they want into law. The law on law enforcement must be practically available; it must have shared rights and responsibilities. Let's take a look at the point of air pollution in a public car or in a building. What is the sanction to influence the smeller? It just doesn't exist. You can't even get this person off the bus. Then why write such a point in the law? The same question is the average objective person. Who is this? Will his parameters be determined by government decree? Go get him. The law must be clear and understandable for all people, especially those who have to ensure that the requirements of this law are complied with. Let's hope that's the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U128	Thank you very much, Mr Peter Võsa. Mr Kalle Laaneti, I would like to ask you to speak with Mr Kalle Laaneti.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Indeed, the Law Enforcement Act and the Law Enforcement Act mean a paradigm change in Estonian law enforcement and its implementation. Let's go back to history. In fact, this paradigm shift was already being discussed in the early 2000s. Personally, I had the opportunity to deal with it in depth during the 2005-2007 period of office as Minister. The ECB's Governing Council of the ECB's Governing Council of the ECB's Governing Council of the ECB's Governing Council of the ECB's Governing Council of the ECB's Governing If we now look at how the Central Party Group has behaved over time, we will see that it was the Central Party Group that first gave the draft law of law to the Riigikogu proceedings. But that's it. I agree with Peter Võsa that the law is complicated in some ways and there are certainly bottlenecks that need to be reviewed. But I hope that if all the law enforcement bodies have completed the training needed to know the law, life in Estonia will be safer. This path is not easy, but who has said that life must be easy? I wish the members of the Riigikogu the strength to deepen this draft and to make amendments to it! Of course, I very much hope that the members of the Riigikogu will be able to help those people who have to apply this law in their daily lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U130	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. As I said, there are 141 of them. Let's start from the beginning. Proposals Nos 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 have been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposals Nos 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 have been submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposals Nos 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 have been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposals Nos 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 have been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposals 23, 24, 25, 26 and 27 have been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposals 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32 have been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposal No 33 has been submitted by the Committee on National Defence; the Committee on Legal Affairs has taken full account of this proposal. Proposal No 34 is from the Committee on National Defence, the lead committee has rejected this proposal. According to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, this proposal is not to be voted on. Let's keep going. Proposals Nos 35, 36, 37 and 38 are from the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposals Nos 39, 40, 41, 42 and 43 are from the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposals Nos 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50 are from the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposals Nos 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56 and 57 are from the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposals Nos 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63 and 64 are from the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposals Nos 65, 66, 67 and 68 are from the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposals 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75 and 76 are from the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposals 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84 and 85 are from the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposals 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94 and 95 are from the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposals Nos 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101 and 102 are from the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposals 103, 104, 105, 106 and 107 are from the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposals 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116 and 117 are from the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposals 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123, 124, 125 and 126 are from the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposal No 127 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and has been taken into account. Proposals 128, 129, 130, 131, 132 and 133 are from the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Proposals 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140 and 141 are from the Committee on Legal Affairs and have all been fully taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, since the lead committee has proposed that the second reading of the draft law be interrupted, the second reading of draft law 424 is interrupted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U131	The next item is the second reading of the draft Act amending § 32 of the State Budget Act initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U132	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance held discussions on 10 and 16 December in preparation for the second reading of the draft. No amendments were received by the deadline of 13 December, the political groups of the Riigikogu, the committees and members of the Riigikogu. No further questions or new issues were raised at the Commission meeting. Let it be said once again that the purpose of the draft is to provide for the possibility for the Ministry of Finance to settle, if necessary, payments relating to the funded pensions and securities of the Central Register of Estonian Securities through the Treasury. The Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda today, i.e. 18 December. It was also decided to make proposals to conclude the second reading and to make a final vote on Thursday 19 December. All these decisions were consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U133	Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. Since there were no amendments to the draft law, the second reading of the draft law 547 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U134	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending and repealing legislation initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkuri of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U135	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu and Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Allow me to introduce to you the draft law amending and repealing legislation in relation to the revision of legislation 519. One might, of course, ask why the draft has such a distinctive title. It should be said that, since it is indeed a draft resulting from the revision of legislation which repeals 51 laws and amends five laws, there was no fair argument as to why one law should be chosen from among those that are being amended or repealed. Moreover, I do not think it would have been very reasonable to see a draft law here, the title of which would have been, for example, the draft law amending the Estonian SSR Civil Code and related laws. So that's why the bill has such a title. Some time ago, the Government of the Republic set the goal of reviewing the legal regime in force. It was made a major task for the Ministry of Justice. Three fundamental objectives were set. Firstly, it must be achieved that the Republic of Estonia no longer relies on legislation adopted during the previous state power. The second objective is to increase legal clarity in order to provide an overview of which legislation is in force. The third objective is to contribute to the electronic availability of all existing legislation in the Official Journal of the State. All ministries were obliged to review existing legislation in their area of government. They provided these data to the Ministry of Justice, which gathered the draft from the data into one whole. The draft proposes to repeal the laws that have now lost their regulatory power, including the laws contained in § 2 of the Act implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the laws on the ratification of foreign contracts to which private international law applies. The ratification laws that are repealed concern the financial commitments made to the Republic of Estonia, i.e. the granting of loans or guarantees to international banks or organisations has been approved by these laws. These obligations have now been fulfilled. The draft amends, as I mentioned in the introduction, five laws and repeals 51 laws. I believe that it is not appropriate to read all these laws, but I would point out one thing. Namely, once this bill is passed as a law, the legacy of Soviet times, such as the civil code of the Estonian SSR, will finally disappear from the legal space of the Republic of Estonia. However, we propose that benefits already granted under the Civil Code remain valid. It should be pointed out that the sections of the Civil Code, which are still in force, concern the legal space relating to the occurrence of and compensation for damage to health caused by work. It is recalled that the principles set out in the Civil Code were developed at a time when private business as such was lacking and the employer was the state. The law created on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia provides for compensation for damages in the Law of Obligations Act and the expiry of claims and the succession of claims in the General Part of the Civil Code Act. The Government of the Republic no longer sees any justification that the four paragraphs of the Estonian SSR Civil Code should continue to apply. Thus, the civil code of the entire Estonian SSR can be repealed. That concludes my introduction. I support the Committee on Legal Affairs' proposal to conclude the first reading of the draft and, hopefully, to adopt it as a law within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U136	Thank you very much. You have a lot of questions. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, what is your position? In 2010 the President of the Supreme Court made a statement in this hall that a revision of penal law would be necessary. It took three years, a good job and common positions were found. Should the revision go on in the same way in the future to be done after a certain number of years, or should it be consistent? How do you feel about what makes more sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U138	Regardless of the law, it is reasonable to have a more comprehensive view of the problems encountered within two or three years of the law's entry into force. Let's look at Riigikogu practice. I bring the family law, for example. It entered into force in 2009 and now it has reached the Chamber with its major amendments, which are specifically related to implementation problems. Punishment is a larger area that has undergone a more thorough review. The Penal Code came into force in 2002, with a lot of minor changes being made there. I think it would make sense for us to review the laws a little more seriously within two or three years of entry into force. Of course, the current problems must be resolved on an ongoing basis, and laws with very important effects must certainly be reviewed once in a decade, either as a whole or on a very large scale. I will give an example of my former rule. When the Riigikogu introduced a new retirement age, it committed the Government of the Republic to submit an analysis of the situation by 2017. It's a good and sensible practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U139	Thank you very much. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U140	If memory doesn't fool me, then the honored waitress has also been the Minister of Social Affairs. The bigger my surprise is because of the impertinence that is mentioned in § 4. This text would fit into the scope of the Act on Insurance against Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases, but not here. Why does a state, unable to create this insurance, deprive people of the opportunity to receive compensation when they have become ill, have been injured or become disabled in an accident at work, or if the company is wound up?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U141	Thank you, Merry Eiki! If my memory doesn't fool me, then you've been Minister of Social Affairs, too. If you recall the regulations of the Health and Safety at Work Act, you will understand that the regulations of this bill have also been developed in the Ministry of Social Affairs. As regards health and safety at work, we are looking at the Civil Code. The sections of the Civil Code apply to work-related damage to health or occupational disease caused by the Soviet Socialist Republic of Estonia. The Constitution has been in force in the Republic of Estonia for more than 20 years; the Law of Obligations Act and the Law of the General Part of the Civil Code have also been in place, which provide for the employer's liability. The employer's liability is clearly governed by these laws. We cannot leave legal order with the possibility that, for 20 years, an occupational disease has not been detected, but now that the civil code of the ESSR is coming to an end, it must be assessed whether or not it developed vibration sickness in 1985. As far as state compensation is concerned, I urge you once again to read the Health and Safety at Work Act as a reminder and see how it regulates the payment of benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U142	Thank you. Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U143	My dear man! It is not the fault that Estonia has not been able to create this insurance and therefore these sections are valid after the adoption of this law. As long as the country has not been able to create it, they must continue to apply. You understand very well that, when this law is passed, a person will receive compensation for as long as the company in which he or she works does not exist, after which he or she will no longer receive compensation. What sections of the Health and Safety at Work Act are, it doesn't matter. Why do you also take away the substance substitution that exists now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U144	Hää Eiki! I repeat. In practice, the current provisions of the ESSR Civil Code mean that if a person goes to apply for a pension and says that he or she has had an occupational disease or has had an accident at work (of course, it is easier with an accident at work, whether it was or not, there is no room for manoeuvre here), then a dispute may arise when assessing health damage which part of the damage to the health of a person who has worked in one enterprise, for example, 35 years, has arisen in the last 10 to 15 years and which part could have occurred during the Soviet period. These are different things. The civil code of the Estonian SSR deals with the damage to health caused during the Soviet period, not with the damage to health that has occurred in the last 20 years. The implementing provisions say that all those who have been awarded compensation will retain it. Similarly, when someone says that compensation for Soviet health damage should be granted under the Civil Code, this possibility has been retained until 1 June. If you want to change the law on health and safety at work, be my guest. This can be done either by initiating a separate draft or by proposing amendments to the draft Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U145	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. I would like to ask Kalle Jents, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft on 2 December. We also received a presentation from the esteemed Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur. Ministers' advisor Madis Timpson and Head of the Legislative Organisation Service, Antero Habicht, also participated in the Commission's discussion. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the subject and made all its decisions by consensus. First of all, it was decided to put this draft on the plenary agenda by 18 December, to date, to make proposals to stop reading first and to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 16 January. I was appointed rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U147	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Kalle Jents. Any requests? Please, Eiki Nestor! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U148	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Lonely Interested People's Envoys! Mr. Minister! I'm starting personally because we're colleagues and we've known each other a long time. Hanno, be a good man and get this § 4 out of this bill! It doesn't fit in there in any way. The reason is basically clear. When it comes to the legal review, no one can argue against knowing when the civil code should no longer apply. But there's another side to it. Look, those people who, today or tomorrow, in a year or two years' time, become ill, fall off the scaffolds or whatever accident they have at work, do not have to take responsibility for the fact that we have no insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases. It's not their job, they're doing a different job for their pay. However, working involves the risk that an accident at work may occur or become occupational. We have not been able to create this insurance either, despite the coalition agreement of the two 'great' parties. What does that mean? This means that Estonia is the only European country in which there is no civil society-specific approach, that it is an insurance case, the risk that needs to be secured. It's like that everywhere else. Apart from the fact that this insurance organises the field of occupational health, forcing the creation of better working conditions, it is important that the insurance ensures that if the company disappears, the benefits of the person remain. That's what we're talking about today with § 4. There have been two approaches in Estonia. Firstly, the Supreme Council has said that all the commitments that were on the subject of agricultural reform will be transferred to the State. The state will pay them off. Under this law too, we will continue to pay it in the future. We have also had a second principle: if the company from which a person has claimed his or her compensation through a court of law is wound up, the obligations of that company will be transferred to the state and we will continue to pay compensation to the person. This is fair from a human point of view, it is also fair from a taxpayer's point of view. If people have chosen such'I'm sorry, Mr President! They have taken account of the fact that taxpayers pay for these benefits. The system's uncreated. This draft is intended to make an amendment to the fact that if a person has been through all his or her litigation with his or her employer (normally the amount of compensation will only be established in court) and will receive compensation, he or she will be deprived of it in the event of liquidation of the company. There's no one to pay. The state says he doesn't think it's his responsibility anymore. At the moment, the state has an obligation to make up for uncreated insurance, at least by paying the damage to the people until the end. That is why I say that § 4 is compatible with the implementing provisions of a law which could be called the Act on Insurance against Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. That's right. It's not right here. The government has been incompetent, not only by the current government, probably by all other governments, and has not created this insurance. It is not the fault of the people affected, it is not their fault and it is not even their business. Some legal review to justify that these people are being deprived of their right to compensation is simply impertinent. I'm sorry, Hanno, but the former Minister of Social Affairs should know the subject. You can't do that. If we've created this insurance, please, there's a logic here. So far, that doesn't make any sense. So be a proper Minister of Justice, think about it and, on behalf of the Government of the Republic, propose to withdraw § 4. Then I think it's pretty much a thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U149	Thank you. Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur would like the floor. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U150	Good Eiki! While it was getting emotional to praise each other, I'd like to say a few words. First of all, it concerns legal engineering situations in which the civil code of the Estonian SSR no longer applies in the Republic of Estonia. Secondly, if we want to hold a debate on whether and if so, to what extent the state compensates for the damage to health to persons who have been granted disability pensions and other benefits and who have the opportunity to go out in compensation for the damage, then I am always prepared to do so as both the Minister for Justice and the former Minister for Social Affairs, as well as the citizen Pevkurina. There's no question. The question is that this particular paragraph concerns a situation in which Soviet law no longer applies in the Republic of Estonia. For God's sake, come to the Committee on Legal Affairs, we'll have this debate and see if and how you can find a solution to your concerns. In addition, your good colleague, Helmen Kütt, knows that there was another clarification in the Committee on Social Affairs. I can say, as a representative of the Ministry of Justice and the government, that we have nothing against clarifying the wishes of the professional patients regarding travel benefits. If the Ministry of Social Affairs sends us this proposal, we are certainly prepared to include this amendment in the draft Committee on Legal Affairs. Perhaps the Committee on Social Affairs will send this proposal itself. There's no problem here. The debate is welcome, but § 4 specifically concerns what happens when the right of the Estonian SSR disappears from the law of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U151	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. I set the deadline of 7 January at 4 p.m. for the submission of draft amendments to draft law 519. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 519 should be completed. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U152	We're going to the eighth item today. The first reading of the Act amending the Act on Identity Documents, the State Fees Act and the State Border Act 550, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Chair, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U153	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has initiated a draft law amending the Identity Documents Act, the State Fees Act and the State Border Act. This bill has three main objectives. Firstly, due to the practical need, the Identity Documents Act provides for the possibility and conditions for an Estonian citizen to be issued a one-year validity period and a travel document without a fingerprint image. This law states that an Estonian citizen who lives or stays abroad, where there is no Estonian diplomatic mission or where the person has a disproportionate burden to turn to an Estonian diplomatic mission, can apply for a one-year passport without a fingerprint image. The regulation makes it easier for Estonian citizens living and staying in another country to apply for a travel document. The State Fees Act also provides for a state fee. Secondly, due to practical considerations, in particular the fact that the SIM card allows it, the Identity Documents Act provides that in 2014 it is possible to issue a digital identity card in the form of mobile ID, valid for up to five years. Thirdly, the draft provides for amendments resulting from the need to ensure uniform terminology in the Identity Documents Act and to bring the State Border Law into line with European Union law. The State Border Act provides for amendments whereby a travel document is issued to each person as a separate document and clarifies the provisions concerning the obligation to do so when crossing a border. These are not new obligations imposed on persons. This draft is intended to be enacted as a law in two stages: the amendments relating to the period of validity of mobile ID will enter into force from 1 February 2014, if it is suitable for the honourable Parliament, the rest of the provisions of the draft will be enforced on 1 October 2014, in particular because development work in the information system of the Police and Border Guard Board will be needed to issue a travel document with a validity period of one year and no fingerprints. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U154	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher! I request Mr Rein Lang, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as a co-presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U155	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I will try to give you an overview of the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs where the draft was discussed. Mariann Žukovits, adviser to the Migration and Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, as well as Eero Svarval and Julia Koger, who are legal advisers to the same department, participated. The representatives of the Ministry of the Interior introduced the bill to us. Their story coincides entirely with what the Minister said. There is no reason to doubt that this is the case. What was the subject of an exchange of views? It was asked that if a fingerprint passport was issued and was analogous to an existing biometric passport, why couldn't the passport be valid for five years. We have received an adequate answer to this question, so that the Schengen Treaty simply does not allow it. The question arose as to whether this law would enter into force by 1 February 2014. We asked the Home Office representatives if this was some kind of critical deadline. In fact, they did not say that it would be very urgent for the law to enter into force, but I understood from the Minister that the Ministry of the Interior would still want to put these provisions into effect from 1 February 2014. I think the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will do everything in its power to ensure that this happens. Interested in why these nonbiometric passports, or fingerprints, are needed. We have come to the conclusion that not everywhere, especially in America, it is so easy to get fingerprints to issue a passport. In general, they were positive about the bill. It was unanimously decided to propose that this draft be placed on the agenda of the sitting by 18 December 2013 and that the first reading be closed. It was also decided to propose a deadline of 10 working days (at 16 a.m. on 7 January 2014) for the submission of amendments. The last and most important decision was that Rein Lang was appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U156	Thank you very much. Aivar Riisalu has a question for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U157	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! What do you think would happen if I proposed an amendment so that the identity document could be valid for ten years instead of five years? Five years is indeed a short time given the current pace of life. This really is quite an administrative burden, if you have to keep an eye on the validity of the documents and spend all the time on the doors of the authorities so that your driving licence, your ID card and your passport (they are now usually issued together) are in order. Maybe it's an unreasonable time for five years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U158	Thank you. This was not discussed in the Commission. But, of course, you have the freedom to make this proposal, and then we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U159	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Rein Lang! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 550 amendments at 16 a.m. on 7 January 2014. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 550 should be completed. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U160	Today's ninth item is the first reading of draft 529 of the Riigikogu decision "The Estonian Strategy for Research, Development and Innovation 2014 I would like a presentation by Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U161	Good President! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic proposes to approve the strategy for research and development and innovation in the Riigikogu for the years 2014 to 2020 'Knowledge-based Estonia'. As we know, two R &amp; D strategies have already been drawn up in the Republic of Estonia in the past under the name 'Knowledge-based Estonia' and this year, 2013 is the final year of the second strategy. It is therefore appropriate for a new strategy to be adopted for the forthcoming period, which coincides with the next financial cycle of the European Union and the related structural funds. What are the main changes compared to the previous strategy? Perhaps it can be worded as follows: if the strategies so far focused primarily on developing our R &amp; D and innovation capacity, the new strategy aims to exploit the potential created for Estonia's development and economic growth. Priority setting is based on a new, smart specialisation methodology. On this basis, emphasis has also been placed on framing and structuring the strategy. What are Estonia's main R &amp; D objectives in the coming period? First, ensure a high level and diversity of Estonian science. This objective is somewhat controversial in nature, because in order to achieve high objectives, it is clearly necessary to focus and mobilise resources in certain areas of breakthrough, but in order to be diverse, all areas must be covered, at least those that are essential for socio-economic development. So far, we have done quite well with the aim of the high level and diversity of Estonian science. Estonian science is internationally competitive. Among the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, together with Slovenia, we have shown that we have built up a research organisation and a system of funding for science based on quality criteria, which gives us confidence that high-quality and yet diverse science will be necessary and possible in the coming period. Another important objective, which is slightly different from the previous emphasis and is in line with what I said earlier, sounds like this: 'Research and Development (TA) works in the interests of Estonian society and economy. It is based on the needs of society and the economy and gives priority to applications. Research institutions are motivated for applied research and effective cooperation with economic operators and government institutions. The state is a wise contracting entity for applied research and development. The organisation of studies for socio-economic purposes is effective. ' So far, the Ministry of Education and Research has been responsible for planning and coordinating R &amp; D, as it will be in the coming period. However, we hope that other ministries, in particular the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, who have prepared a business growth strategy for the same financial period, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of the Environment, etc. will plan research and development in their field in accordance with the objectives set before these ministries. In this way it will be possible to design smart subscribers from different public authorities, and in particular from ministries, who will be able to set up tasks for the scientific community in the interests of promoting their field, which will be much more operational if this can be ensured by academic research in universities and national research and development institutions driven by the general promotion of science. Objective 3: 'TA makes the economic structure more knowledge-intensive. Investment in R &amp; D &amp; I, selected and managed by a smart specialisation method, contributes to the development of growth areas at an early pace. The share of knowledge-intensive business in the economy and the added value of exports are increasing considerably. ' This, again, is in line with the socio-economic target on which I stopped earlier. We hope that the academic potential of gradually created R &amp; D will increasingly support entrepreneurship efforts. In the last two years, the amounts allocated to R &amp; D in business have been higher in Estonia for the first time than public R &amp; D investments. This gives us some assurance that the business sector is not only abstractly and strategically interested in R &amp; D, but also practically interested in it by allocating resources from its revenue base and thereby increasing its competitiveness through R &amp; D. This national strategy must further support and direct such action. The fourth important objective is worded as follows: 'Estonia is active and visible in international cooperation in the field of R&D&I. " To a small country, this is extremely important in two ways. Firstly, international cooperation is needed to ensure greater breakthrough capacity and effectiveness for joint action in areas that are important for Estonia. Without international cooperation, it is almost impossible to make progress today, not only in natural and technical sciences, but also in social sciences and humanities. Of course, international cooperation is also necessary because in many areas where Estonia's competence for R &amp; D is more modest, we could involve international competence to solve our socio-economic challenges. Let me say a few words about the smart specialisation strategy and the areas of growth formulated with it. This has been done on behalf of the Estonian Development Fund. Efforts have been made to identify both those areas where we have scientific competence and those where we have entrepreneurial capacity. Their overlap areas have been examined and where synergies could arise between entrepreneurship and R &amp; D. Information and communication technologies have been defined as such. In particular, it is about horizontal cooperation, not narrowly increasing computer science competence, but the implementation of this competence in the development of a wide range of integrated services and products. A practical application that is quite widespread and attracted attention is, for example, the X-Road infrastructure, which is already successfully implemented in cooperation between Estonia and Finland. It cannot be ruled out, it can be said that it is entirely possible for such an IT service in the public sector to have wider international competitiveness. So horizontally integrated methods and techniques based on information technology are important. The second area is also end-to-end related to information technology or e-applications. This concerns, in particular, public health and medicine and related areas, whether it is a genetic property and the resulting or various systems that can make health services more efficient and competitive. Thirdly, all research and development that, in one way or another, values Estonia's resources in the broadest sense, be it our grasslands, which are important for dairy cattle and the food industry, oil shale or other material and intangible resources. So the areas of growth are limited. In the past, these priorities had been set on an extremely wide scale and covered almost the whole spectrum of science, and we have been able to narrow them down more closely as a result of rather long negotiations and intense consultations. By concentrating resources in this way, we hope to be able to achieve greater competitiveness, both in terms of research and innovation. I'm not talking about technical details. As far as the background is concerned, the preparation of this strategy started formally with the order of the Government of the Republic of 28 June 2012. The research strategy has been drawn up in parallel, as has already been said, with a business growth strategy conducted under the direction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, but there have also been broad consultations with hundreds of representatives of science, entrepreneurship and the state sector. This strategy has been discussed in the Research and Development Council, the Research Policy Commission and the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Policy Commission. Many institutions have played their part. That's why we can be pretty sure that what's gotten between these covers is the best knowledge right now. I mention another difficult task that coincides with the objective set at European level. Estonia has also set its target of reaching 3% of GDP by 2020 from R &amp; D intensity (measured in monetary terms). The current level is around 2.5%, which is already above the EU average. It is worth noting that for the last 15 years Estonia has been the country with the fastest increase in R &amp; D spending in Europe. If such growth continues, we can be sure that we can also achieve this goal. Of this 3%, 1% should come from the public sector and 2% from the business sector. This is the goal that has been set. Of course, it is useful to know that this target was set in Europe as early as 1999, when it was said that European R &amp; D expenditure could reach 3% by 2010 and that Europe would become the most competitive and innovative economic area in the world. The European countries have fallen short of this objective and, unfortunately, progress is not as rapid as we would like to be today. Estonia has probably been more successful than our European partners, because we have been able to grow our R &amp; D sector faster than they have, despite economic setbacks in the second half of the last decade. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U162	Thank you very much. The first question is from Aivar Riisalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U163	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! It is nice to hear that Estonia, despite its small size, makes a considerable contribution to this area. We have had quite successful projects from time to time, which, unfortunately, because of the interest in foreign capital, tend to leave Estonia, because we ourselves, say so, have no more resources for deep development and implementation. Could this development plan foresee how some really brilliant, such as medical or other inventions, could still be maintained through the Development Fund, with the help of public capital, in order to increase our GDP later, once this project has become much more expensive? We should not give up research results at an early stage.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U164	We already have some pretty good examples of this. It can certainly not be said that Estonia's research results are going to travel around the world without any economic benefit to the Estonian people. Perhaps it is early to rejoice, but the oil shale technology developed in Estonia is obviously also going into the world with the participation of Estonian capital. I take this opportunity to refer to this research and practical technological development work carried out in cooperation with the University of Tartu and the Estonian University of Life Sciences in connection with potential pharmaceutical production using transgenic animals. It's the process that started in the clone calf in June. We discussed this topic yesterday at the Research and Development Council and looked for opportunities to finance this activity from the Estonian state budget until it was possible to sell this intellectual property on a commercial basis. We've had a lot of biotech companies in recent years. In the field of information technology, for example, crypto technologies and other technologies have also been applied, but not directly applied, with licenses and patents, they have been applied to these services and products that our companies, whether based on Estonian or foreign capital, have certainly produced on Estonia's soil. I think we've gotten out of the recession and we can match our research results. The strategy we have developed and the strategy of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications are significantly more supportive of knowledge transfer than has been the case so far. Therefore, I do not think that we should look pessimisticly at the future. It is true that Estonian entrepreneurship's own ability to invest in R &amp; D and related intellectual property is modest for objective reasons. We simply do not have enough large companies and therefore this process may not go as smoothly as it could go, but there are already good examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U165	Thank you very much. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U166	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue with the question of Aivar Riisalu. I have spoken to people who have been creators of certain new intellectual property, registered patents, etc., as well as to some of the companies that are active in this field. Clearly, the thought has come out of all of them that quite often we have a new thing created and a patent taken, but then this patent will be sold and most of the added value will come from somewhere else. This plan also states that the link with the societal impacts of R &amp; D is a little weak. Does this plan include concrete measures on how this situation can be improved? Or could the current situation develop organically itself and there is no need to create anything new to implement patents or new inventions in the economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U167	I'll answer in two parts. Firstly, I believe that in any country in the world, even in the largest countries, most of the scientific, technological and commercial intellectual property developed there is not being used. A very large proportion of intellectual property is exported before it comes into being in the form of a product, licences and user charges or in any other form. There is nothing wrong with selling a patent or a licence based on it. It would be worth encouraging all researchers to protect their intellectual property and also to sell patents or licences. This too is useful, sensible and worth supporting. However, it is important to look for ways in which Estonian entrepreneurship can be applied on Estonian soil or, even better, Estonian entrepreneurship based on Estonian capital. There are examples. It is not quite right that we have a huge gap between entrepreneurship and universities or research institutions, and in the meantime there is nothing. For example, technology development centres have been set up in several areas (information technology, materials science, milk technology, etc.). They operate on a commercial basis and are certainly a good seed for further action in this direction. I do not consider the situation to be hopeless or bad, but there is an urgent need for greater growth in this sector in the coming period than in the clean science sector. That is certainly justified. A separate issue that does not directly relate to R &amp; D but rather to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is the kind of support currently provided by early-stage investors or angel investors. In this case, there is still a long way to go to a real commercial outcome and the risks are extremely high. Here we might want to think about those instruments that would support technological development more at this stage. If there is the first so-called prototype, as a result of which it can be said that technology has at least justified itself in technological terms, then the instrument will continue to exist in Estonia. We have the Development Fund as one of these structures, and there have also been quite good examples. At least in this key on risk investments, I certainly consider the development of the development fund to be positive. They should be supported and strengthened.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U168	Thank you. Please, Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U169	Thank you. Good minister! I think I can only ask one question, so my question is two layers. Horizon 2020 - the research programme for the next financial period of the European Union, will aim at excellence in research, leadership in industry and addressing societal challenges. In general terms, our strategy has chosen ICT, biotechnology and material science as areas of growth. How do these two documents interact? The second layer of the question is as follows. What position do the humanities have in this strategy, I am emphasising precisely national sciences, as we are accustomed to understanding them? What position do humanities and perhaps social sciences hold?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U170	Thank you. Just in case, I'm going to make it clear that you can ask two questions. Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U171	Thank you. First of all, 'Horizon 2020' and Estonia's strategy combine in several keys. They certainly fit conceptually in the sense that Europe, too, has an increasing emphasis on solving real socio-economic problems. Clearly, the task is set so that the research that the country is channelling should always bear in mind the objective of increasing the competitiveness of the European Economic Area. In this sense, there are no differences. Of course, there are a number of activities at European Union level in which Estonia cannot participate for various reasons, because we simply lack competence in this area. I am not going to talk about nuclear physics here, but there are also very many other areas where it is simply not objectively feasible or reasonable for Estonia to participate. But we are involved in a wide range of technological activities, including pan-European projects financed by centralised European Union funds. We'll be quite successful there. So consistency is quite good and this strategy has also been developed in close cooperation with the European Commission. The second part of the question concerned social sciences and humanities. They are as necessary for the socio-economic development of Estonia as natural and technical sciences or medical science. That's what I've been thinking all along. In Estonia, the share of humanities and social sciences in funding science is considerably higher than in other countries. Just as Estonian public budget spending on culture is higher than in other countries, so our spending on humanities and social sciences is relatively higher than in other European countries, not to mention all countries of the world. I think that this is justified and justified in every way, and there is no intention to change this proportion. A separate issue relates to the international comparability of humanities and, to a lesser extent, social sciences. Often, if not impossible, it is at least extremely difficult. We must maintain scientific competence in many areas regardless of how competitive our scientists are outside Estonia. It's a rather complicated task. Here, once again, only this methodology, which is internationally recognised, can be relied on. In particular, the humanities and social sciences of Estonia should be assessed by means of expert assessments of the relevant specialty at both the international and the Estonian level. I know that this has caused quite serious tensions, because in many cases the assessment has not been the most positive. Such things cause dissatisfaction, resentment and disappointment in a small group. I think that we have an objective need to ensure greater stability for some research institutions than has been the case in the last decade. We have wanted to shake ourselves apart from this rather rigid institutional financing model, which was inherent in the Soviet period. We have done so on an extremely competitive basis. It is likely to be worth adjusting in order to ensure that major or major research institutions have greater confidence in their financing. Exactly how much this would have to be done, this discussion will be ahead of each other in the coming year-and-half, but such an understanding will exist within the scientific community. I don't want to offer specific applications from this remote control, that would be premature.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U172	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U173	Thank you. Mr. Minister! My question is based on the annex to the document submitted to us, the SWOT analysis of the Estonian R &amp; D and innovation system. One of the weaknesses of the system is the following: 'Low interest mostly among companies owned by foreign owners who would be able to order development projects in Estonia. " What might be the cause of this lack of interest? Is it because these companies are interested, for one reason or another, in ordering such development projects in their motherland and then implementing them in Estonia? Or do they not think there are people in Estonia to develop these development projects? Or is it just that there really isn't much interest in development and innovation, because if labour and infrastructure are relatively cheap, it's good enough to spy and there's no need to develop?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U174	Both this and the other. It is no secret that for a long time Estonia's competitive advantage has been relatively skilled and cheap labour, especially in the eyes of investors in richer countries. For this reason, development as a high value-added activity has remained in the motherland, whether it be Finland, Sweden, America or Germany, and this is where the efforts have been made to realise these technological solutions. There's nothing weird about it in itself. It has also had a positive by-product: in this way we have gained the first experience with the technological level and the requirements that exist in the development of technologies, and gradually several investors have started to bring smaller and larger development units to Estonia. But, of course, it's all pretty early right now. Surely it is worth making an effort in this direction. The second question is how much competence is needed in Estonia. We have to realise that if we want to promote broad knowledge in a wide range of areas with 1.3 million inhabitants, we have a few or three people in each area, at most 30 people, but serious technological development needs 250 engineers, not in ten years, but in two years. In that case, we will be forced to admit that it doesn't work that easily. That's for two reasons. Firstly, because it would be too risky to make an investment "in advance" in order to create a sufficient number of competent people in some area. Secondly, if there were to be a need for it, we could imagine that there would be an important technological company in Estonia, whose development unit employs hundreds of people, then there would also be a problem that it would take three, four or five years to train these people and create training capacity. This is likely to be longer than what is needed, for example, for investments in the construction of a plant. So we must objectively consider our smallness. The third question that this raises is the extent to which we are prepared to accept foreign competence in such development centres. In the European Union there is free movement of labour, there are no fundamental problems here, there is only a pay problem. However, until recently, it was not easy to bring top-level specialists from third countries to Estonia. Now we have taken one step forward here: we have the opportunity to bring specialists here, for example by creating jobs for those people with master's and doctoral degrees who have completed their studies in Estonia and can find an application here. This procedure has been made relatively simple. It was a very sensible decision. So the preparatory work for such development centres has been carried out, and it is practical. I am moderately optimistic that we can move forward here. I note another course of action. Estonian research funding is primarily intended for researchers working in Estonia, as it is in Finland, Sweden, Germany, etc. We could think more openly about how to create national cross-border financing instruments in cooperation with other countries. Finns could get money to ask the Estonian taxpayer for their research, at least for the research that takes place in cooperation between Estonia and Finland. The same applies to Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Such negotiations are ongoing, but the subject is sensitive. We might lose in this sense that if we open up our market to researchers from Finland and Germany, at some point they can take a bigger piece of cake and our scientists will have even less. But the other way around, if we want to have access to these financing instruments ourselves, this decision must at least be considered. I think we are definitely in a better position now than we were three or four years ago, not to mention five or ten years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U175	Thank you. Please, Mart Meri, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U176	Thank you. Good minister! I will give you the opportunity to expand your response and comment on one important point from the chapter on governance and financing of the strategy. There is an important sign of the year 2018 in preparation for the uncoupling of Estonian research funding from the Structural Funds of the European Union. This sentence is preceded by this: 'Furthermore, permanent financing will be supported at the expense of tax revenues. ' This is a very important position. In any case, finding a solution will also depend on the wishes and will of the legislative body. How do you explain it and comment to make it clear to all of us what these sentences mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U177	This argument is extremely important and has a major impact. It can be said that the money coming from the Estonian state budget to Estonian science, at least to the academic part of it, comes from 50% of the tax revenue and 50% of it comes from European Union subsidies. One might ask why Estonia does not contribute even more than its tax revenues so that we are already at 1% or even above in terms of public funding. I think that the increase in funding for science in Estonia has already been quite rapid. In the event of even faster growth, the question arises as to whether we can really reward or absorb all of this. Given that EU subsidies have a label attached to them as a quite clear priority, indicating that they are intended for R &amp; D, it has been reasonable to use this money and it has not been so practical to speed up the channelling of tax revenues into science. Obviously, as time goes on, the more we must rely on our tax revenues. This naturally means choices at the expense of other areas, because if we do not increase the overall tax burden, then it can only be a redistribution within the budget. There is, of course, a point of contact for very different interests. It certainly concerns the legislator and the executive. If I have the courage to express my personal opinion here, I say that this is ultimately a difficult task for the Estonian scientific community. The government and parliament or politicians, making political choices between different areas of life, making decisions on science among other things, must be convinced that this money will give the Estonian people and the state enough back, and this financial allocation is practically practical, not just theoretically reasonable. If this conviction exists in this Chamber and in the government, then we will certainly be able to keep these priorities in mind and, after the European Union's resources have decreased, to channel more tax resources into this area. Is that conviction now? Try to respond to how we perceive the extent to which the Estonian scientific community contributes to solving practical problems. If he does not do it enough now, then the five years to come, until this decision is considered, is probably enough time to prove to the public, politicians and society in general that it is also worth investing more in science in practical terms than we have done so to date from tax revenues.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U178	Thank you. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U179	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Yesterday in this hall, the Prime Minister made an overview of research and development. In this context, there was a discussion among the Estonian scientific community about the fear that, if public funding is now available to around 1,900 full-time researchers, there would be 600-650 government-funded accounting jobs in the future. The Prime Minister could neither confirm nor disprove it. Can you say these rumors are true, and if so, what could be behind them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U180	The fact that the Prime Minister was unable to explain this is completely understandable to me, because it is in no way part of Estonian research policy. It is a speculation that has begun to live an independent life, based on the fact that many people feel that we do not have enough money for research, that there should be three times as much money for one scientist as we do now, and that if we stop underfunding science, you could say that there is every opportunity to carry out research. This leads to the conclusion that as money does not triple so quickly, it is enough for three times the number of people. So that's where the numbers are. It's a speculative thought development, but it still has its truth under it. It is that we really need to consider, when planning the future of the research system, which way to choose: whether more researchers and, in this case, less money per researcher, or rather, to direct the extra increase in research expenditure that we are planning here to increase the amount that will be allocated to the researcher in the future. It is indeed a political choice. I don't want to go into the details here. Structural problems in research funding are much deeper than this specific allocation of money per researcher. We have, as we know, invested a great deal in infrastructure in recent years, both buildings and equipment, and the share of wages here has been secondary. We must, in any case, increase the share of wages in financing. As regards the increase in the number of researchers, especially in the public sector, I am more conservative here. However, the threefold reduction in the number of researchers cannot be set as a political objective. This is not the way anyone thought about it or set it as a political objective. As has already been said, this is due to a piece of work that says that if science is properly funded, there should be three times as much money for every scientist.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U181	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U182	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Yesterday, the Prime Minister really talked a lot about the same subject. Speaking of future directions, he mentioned the use of local resources. I used to work in a mine and tell you from experience that oil shale is now our main resource, despite the fact that 25 to 30% of it is underground. I can argue a little bit and say the right thing is 35 to 40%. This technology has been in use for 60 years. What technological solutions do scientists offer during this six years to reduce the share of oil shale underground? Careers are already finishing their jobs, going to the mines.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U183	Thank you. I am certainly not competent to comment on these options or on the task-settings, but at the general level I understand this problem. The promotion of oil shale technology offers significantly better opportunities for companies with mining permits and who would benefit from the tangible benefits of promoting this technology. However, this technological-scientific competence is more or less equally divided between the private sector, the public sector and Tallinn University of Technology. I'm not gonna predict anything. As has been said, the reparation of local resources is one of the areas for growth where greater investment is planned in the broader sense. I think that a solution will be found to this problem too, if not complete, then partial. But I can't tell you more about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U184	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo! I would like to ask the Chair of the Committee on Culture, Urmas Klaas, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U185	Madam Vice-Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The discussion of the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled 'Accepting Estonia based on Knowledge' of the Estonian strategy for research and development and innovation 2014 has been on the Riigikogu Cultural Commission's agenda on Monday, 9 December. a. We were briefed by Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, Indrek Reimand, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry, and Taivo Raud, Head of the Science Department. The Commission's debate was very thorough, it took place precisely around the topics that my fellow Members spoke about today in this large Chamber. The Minister made a thorough review and my colleagues asked questions. There was only the difference that, since Ossinovski was not a member of our committee, he asked the same question as Mart Meri in the committee today in the Chamber. But these nuances I'm not going to bring up here any longer. The Commission decided to appoint a rapporteur here. We proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 18 December, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments should be set at 10 working days. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-18_U186	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Urmas Glass! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 529 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 529 amendments at 16 a.m. on 7 January 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. I wish everyone a nice evening. Closure of the sitting at 4.18 p.m.
