ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U1	Good fellows, good guests, good morning. We will begin the second Thursday session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I am handing over the draft law amending the Parental Benefits Act. With the draft, we want to increase the flexibility of the parental benefit system. We propose that parents use parental benefit days until the child reaches the age of 8 or the end of the first school year. The amendment allows parents to use parental benefit days, for example, to support a child at the beginning of the first class or at any other time, if necessary. The proposal allows for a flexible reconciliation of working life with family life. Parents can use part of the week to work, but for the rest of the week they can use parental benefit days to raise a child. This will allow parents to continue working part-time, keep them informed of what is happening at work, thereby increasing their employability in the labour market and preventing problems that could arise if they were to be absent from the labour market in the long term. The current system is inflexible; we want to make it more flexible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U3	Please speak to the Riigikogu Chair Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of a member of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I will refer the question to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas, concerning the role of the Ministry of Social Affairs in reducing drug deaths. During the working hours of this Riigikogu, members of our group have handed over several enquiries on this subject to the Minister of the Interior and to the Prime Minister. It may be said that under pressure from our enquiries, tactics have been changed and, in addition to drug lords, street dealers have become involved. The results have not allowed themselves to be expected for a long time: in the first quarter of this year, drug deaths decreased by 44%. However, the Minister of the Interior alone does not have to deliver in this area; the role of the Minister of Social Affairs is also very important. That is why we are giving Taavi Clothes nine questions. We want to know what has been done and what is going to be done to reduce drug deaths in his jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U5	Good fellows! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry. The Bureau will decide on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Good fellows, let's do a presence check. 79 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 22.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U6	Let's move on. The first item is the report on the activities of the Chancellor of Justice in 2012. Before we go to this procedure, let me briefly introduce the procedure resulting from § 155 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. First, the Chancellor of Justice will present an overview of his activities, which will last up to 20 minutes. Questions can then be asked to the rapporteur. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. After that there will be a round of negotiations, only the representatives of the political groups can speak. Indrek Tederi, Chancellor of Justice of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! They say the years are not brothers. In 2012, the Chancellor of Justice faced many new problems, some of which found a broad public voice, others did not. What is important often becomes clear only later. Therefore, I would not like to make things before the Chancellor of Justice last year more important and less important. The importance depends on the point of view: whether to assess any cases of breach of the Constitution from the perspective of the State as a whole or of the person directly affected by the violation. Today, my aim is to sum up and point to general trends. It certainly stands out to you that in 2012 I made much more proposals to the Riigikogu to bring the laws into line with the Constitution than in previous years. Does this mean that in my opinion the Riigikogu respects the Constitution less than before? No. The Chancellor of Justice is often confronted with problems that the legislator did not want to bring about, and if Parliament had foreseen these problems, it would probably have adjusted the law. In this situation, the Chancellor of Justice and the Riigikogu can work together to make things right. Therefore, the nine proposals made last year do not constitute a loud criticism of the Riigikogu. On the contrary, I would like to thank you for your cooperation. But there are things that concern me. In particular, this concerns the role of the Constitution, i.e. not a few provisions of the Constitution, but a spreading concept of the Constitution as a whole. I recall a picture of Rein Lang, published in the press, where he pointed to the Constitution with a resounding expression. The idea of the picture was that officials and members of the Riigikogu should not forget that there are restrictions with a higher legal force that must be respected, regardless of whether we like them or not. For the interpretation of the Constitution, the magic word 'proportionality' is used. It is said that, yes, true, the legislation adopted is contrary to this or another provision of the Constitution, but the fact that the law serves a good compatible with the Constitution trumps this violation. So, everything's actually fine. I have no doubt that most of this is said in good faith. Yet there is danger. If used ever more widely, such arguments will push us to slippery ground, on the other end of which the extended constitution so welcomes that it cannot be broken, because there is always an excuse in the form of a general principle or a collective good. This is extreme pragmatism, which poses a threat to all provisions of the Constitution. There is a situation where the credibility of the legislator has been undermined in the light of short-term interests. The same is true of fundamental rights. When you look at an isolated incident, one person's interest and public interest seem to be at odds. In this light, weight always seems to be inclined toward the public interest, for why should one person's position be protected at the expense of everyone else, i.e. the public?! But here, too, a short and long perspective contrasts. When the fundamental right of one person is protected, it also indirectly protects everyone else's, it protects all people's ability to rely on their legal position today and in the future. The provisions of the Constitution have been introduced in the long term. Following them forces us to consider the unnoticed and long - term damage caused by some decisions that seem reasonable in the short term. The Constitution must not become a collection of declarations that we do not really believe. If the Constitution has been violated, this situation will not become legitimate merely because the infringement allegedly promotes a good. In my opinion, our constitution does not allow anyone to be tortured or subjected to proportionate unfair proceedings or to a proportionate violation of § 1 of the Constitution, according to which Estonia is an independent and independent democratic republic, where the highest authority is exercised by the people. During the debate on the ESM Treaty, it was asked whether it was really possible for the Estonian people to tie their hands in 1992, so that now that the international situation is changing, no steps could be taken that would help the Estonian people to survive. The ESM dispute was resolved last year, but I would still like to clarify my position. I did not say that ratification of the Treaty was legally impossible. I recall that the Constitution can be changed. The Riigikogu is therefore able to adopt a law or ratify an international treaty that is contrary to the Constitution. This is provided that the Constitution is amended. The fact that the law is illegal means that, according to this understanding, the legislator is informed that he chose the wrong path to achieve the objective. It is not said that the desired step cannot be taken, but that it requires greater political consensus than usual to take it. This consensus is expressed either in a referendum, in a decision of two successive formations of the Riigikogu, or, in the case of an urgent question, in a four-fifths majority of the Riigikogu. These are the requirements for amending the Constitution. What does that mean? It follows that we do not need to interpret our constitution so generously that it will allow us to make all the decisions that seem to be of public interest to us today. To exaggerate a little, you could say that a constitution so stretched out would not be necessary at all. Let us ask the rhetorical question: Why do we need detailed provisions, prohibitions and requirements? After all, we could always rely directly on our assessment of what is reasonable to do for the development of the country and for the benefit of the people. However, do you think that those in power tomorrow or the day after tomorrow will understand the public interest and the good of the people in the same way? The Constitution contains detailed prohibitions and requirements in order to create a solid and reliable framework for social life. To rule the law, not those who apply the law. However, this is only the case if we take the text of the Constitution seriously. Yes, more than twenty years have passed since Estonia regained independence. The world has taken a form that was hardly anticipated when the Constitution was adopted. Rather, we have faced new challenges. Of course, we must also take this into account when interpreting the Constitution. Take, for example, § 76, the first sentence of which states that the member of the Riigikogu is untouchable. This is a general provision and needs to be furnished. However, this cannot be cleared by reference to the procedural economy of the section. If they're trying to do this by a simple law, then the constitution must prevail. The right of the Chancellor of Justice to make or not to propose to the Riigikogu to take away the immunity of some members is one way to enforce the Constitution in such a situation. One of the most important changes is our continued integration with the European Union. As I have pointed out many times before, I am paying close attention to this process. It doesn't just concern big things like the ESM. The Chancellor of Justice has a broader perspective, focusing on the possibilities of defending the Constitution in new circumstances. The principle on which I refer is as follows: we must maintain constitutional supervision as far as possible. There is no doubt that we must fulfil the obligations arising out of the Treaty. This will in future limit the applicability of our constitution. It's not debatable in any way. However, we must not, under any circumstances, change our constitution in areas where we are not obliged to do so under the Treaty. This issue came up acutely last year in the context of the ESM Treaty. It was argued that since this is a 'European Union matter', the constitutionality of the Treaty cannot be verified at all. The assumption was therefore that all things relating to the European Union would be out of reach of our constitution in the future. This, however, is far from small in technical detail. This approach leads to a largely sleepy state of our constitution. As a guardian of the Constitution, however, I feel it is my duty to highlight the dangers of making an erroneous expansion of the scope of European Union law. There is also a contradiction between a short and a long-term perspective. The History Museum has for 11000 years summed up Estonian history with the expression "visa soul." This is an illustration of persistence, despite all changes, of the preservation of something. I do not think that our constitution should be in force for 11000 years. But the expression 'visa soul' inspires to look beyond one crisis or another, reform, a kind of idea. It inspires us to ask: What did we create our country for and build on it every day? Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U8	Thank you very much, Chancellor. Good colleagues, do you have any questions? It is. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U9	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! You will also refer in your review to the proposals you put forward at the request of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on possible changes to the political party financing system. To be honest, it is clear that free competition is currently not best ensured. You propose, among other things, to consider granting a state budget allocation to a new political party. Could you give me a little more details about this? This process in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been going on for quite a few months since your proposals came. How do you see this problem and what solutions do you think are possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U10	I think this is a complex problem and so important that I would rather not be analysing it now in this short period of time. The subject has been complex. I'd do it in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U11	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U12	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate you on your presentation. Too bad the media balcony is empty. This shows that journalists probably have little interest in the supervision of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, just as they often have no interest in the work of the Riigikogu. But that's it. You spoke in your presentation about the protection of fundamental rights. Can you expand the subject a little bit, or can you give me an example, where you think this barrage has been the brightest lately? Perhaps you can elaborate on that a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U13	There's been a lot of these slugs sometimes. They tend to be forgotten. For example, § 12 of the Constitution speaks of the principle of equality, but if it is very pragmatic, it will be forgotten. The subject of medicines is also there, but I will not stop talking about it. It has always been so that they behave pragmatically. You should think about it in the longer term, that's what's important.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U14	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! Thank you for this very good presentation. I'm quoting you. You have said that the Constitution must not become a collection of declarations. I agree that if the suit is either large or small, it has to be redesigned, not taken out. But do I get it right that you generally encourage members of the Riigikogu to take our constitution into consideration in 2013 or even rewrite it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U16	I'm pretty conservative. We have a constitution and we simply do not want to change it. But it's possible. The reason should be extremely important and should then be discussed. This modification is only possible in this case. But I'm pretty conservative. Yes, it is possible, but there should still be a consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U17	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! The overview of your activities is a long and comprehensive document, and it will take a long time to read it. I'll ask you a simple question. Looking back a year, people usually give the emotional or emotional assessment with which they were most satisfied during the year. Is it possible for you to give such an assessment of the last year with which you, as Chancellor of Justice and human, were most satisfied in your activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U19	In general, I am a very positive person. There are problems, but we can solve them. 2012 was not a very bad year, my assessment is still positive. There were a wide range of problems, and a very complex judgment was related to the ESM, for example, but I would stress that 2012 will also be a positive assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U20	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U21	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In recent weeks, the question of whether members of the Riigikogu can participate in the work of local government has once again heated passion. This is certainly not the most important and substantive problem in Estonia, but what is your position? Is this a deep constitutional dispute, or is it a matter of purely political agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U22	Now that there's an election coming up, I wouldn't be better at analyzing it. Maybe I'll do it in the future if there's no election on the horizon.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U23	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chancellor of Justice! Last year, you intervened twice in border mathematics. How do you feel about whether or not the constitutional rights of Estonian citizens are being respected at the border?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U25	Yes, we made a certain proposal, and that was accepted. It's still on. I think it's going to get better there. To some extent, it was accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U26	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Kadri Simson, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U27	Your Honor, Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, I congratulate the Chancellor of Justice for a very meaningful speech. In my report, however, I and my entire group believe that last year's most important dispute is the dispute about the compatibility of the European Stability Mechanism with the Constitution. The Chancellor of Justice also mentioned in his speech that there are issues where there is a need for greater consensus than usual. Last summer, the basic principle of democracy was actually discussed: do the people have the right to decide on important issues of state life through Parliament? We all seem to remember in this Chamber that last year there was a debate as to whether the Treaty provision of the European Stability Mechanism, which in exceptional cases allows decisions to be taken on the granting of financial support to Member States under the so-called urgent procedure by a majority of 85%, was incompatible with the Constitution. Last summer it was said that this option was theoretical, but now we are in a situation where it is more or less widely known that Greece needs a new package of assistance, but since it is not publicly spoken before the elections in Germany, the decision of this aid package may come to our table as a matter of urgency if there is no time to make the correct decisions. Article 4 (4) of the ESM Agreement allows for the use of the urgency procedure for the adoption of decisions. In addition to Germany's 27.1%, France's 20.3%, Italy's 17.9%, Spain's 11.9%, the Netherlands' 5.7% and Belgium's 3.4% votes, we receive a majority of 86.3% of the votes. This means that the six largest countries will also be able to push their wishes through despite the opposition of others in urgent proceedings. So we have to accept that our Prime Minister uses his expert opinion and says he does not mind, and the debate does not change anything any more, because the weight of the vote of the Estonian representatives in making this decision is 0.186%. The urgent procedure creates a situation in which Estonia must contribute financially, but cannot affect the provision of financial assistance or its conditions. The Chancellor of Justice sent a request to the Supreme Court on 12 March last year requesting that the provision of the European Stability Mechanism Treaty, signed in Brussels on 2 February 2012, be declared incompatible with the Constitution. In doing so, the volume of potential asset liabilities for Estonia with the ESM had to be taken into account separately. They're outrageously large. If the obligation is unheard of, Estonia should have the opportunity to participate in these decisions. Estonia's participation in the European Stability Mechanism is 1.302 billion euros, of which 148.8 million euros were paid up in real money. The capital to be recovered will be added up to EUR 1.153 billion, which can be enforced against Estonia. This amount of commitments has never been made to Estonia before. Estonia's participation means that almost EUR 1 000 has been committed for each of our inhabitants when joining the European Stability Mechanism. The government was probably trying to say last summer that the Chancellor of Justice should not have to carry out constitutional ex-ante control of foreign treaties, but the judges of state found that this denial of prior constitutional review of foreign treaties, together with the lack of likelihood of ex-post verification, is not in their opinion consistent with § 14 of the Constitution, according to which the guarantee of fundamental rights and constitutional values is, among other things, the daily duty of executive power. The Supreme Court therefore had to assess whether the contested emergency procedure, which excludes the decision of the Estonian state, outweighs the sovereignty of the Estonian state, including the financial competence of the Riigikogu and the democratic rule of law, which are one of the most important principles. The General Assembly of the Supreme Court dismissed the application of the Chancellor of Justice. However, nine of the 19 judges of the state disagreed. Although the decision found that Article 4 (4) of the ESM Treaty violates the financial competence of the Riigikogu, 10 state judges justified the interference, who thought that a stable economic environment based on the ESM was essential for ensuring constitutional values and fundamental rights. We need to remember the warning from the Supreme Court that the mandate that took place in 2003 and has been given in the last referendum so far will be exhausted. The people have not agreed to delegate Estonia's competence without limit to the European Union. Does the Constitutional Supplementation Act, which was supported in the referendum, include the power to ratify the Accession Treaty to the European Union and, in addition, all future-oriented powers that allow Estonia to belong to the changing European Union, and the 2003 referendum excludes the need to hold referendums again in order to supplement the Constitution? The dissenting judges of the state found that the people did not, in a single referendum held in 2003, give the Riigikogu the right to any of the current positions of the Riigikogu to surrender the sovereignty of the Estonian state to any extent from time to time and forever for momentary political reasons. By supplementing the Constitution, the Riigikogu was not granted the right to ratify the treaties without organising a referendum. That's what a judge of state thought. In another dissenting opinion, the national judges considered that membership of the European Union cannot and must not be easily equated with the fact that the European Union's affairs are considered to be fully binding. It must not be forgotten that the people have given a clear mandate to belong to the European Union in accordance with the fundamental principles of the Constitution, but hardly in 2003, when giving this mandate, the people were willing to submit themselves to any obligations arising out of European Union affairs but outside European Union law. If the powers that the people gave ten years ago are to be interpreted in such a way that we can now expand them and use them to resolve the euro crisis, then it should still be controlled by the fundamental principles of the Constitution. I repeat that the mandate given in the 2003 referendum is beginning to run out. It cannot be relied on by constantly conferring powers on the European Union and by taking on the responsibilities that remain with us even after this government and the government coalition have left power. The urgent procedure that was debated at the time may well await us shortly. Germany has elections this week, it has slowed down the honest debate on the financial crisis in Greece. If there is an urgent procedure, we must take into account that the decision taken here last year may lead to the fact that even if the majority of the Riigikogu does not support the third aid package, our decision will no longer matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U28	Thank you. I ask Rait Maruse, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Your Honor, Chancellor! Colleagues! In modern constitutional models, the institution of the Chancellor of Justice is quite extraordinary in the form provided for in our constitution and the resulting laws. The Chancellor of Justice is an independent official whose job it is to ensure that our laws and the legislation that we are standing below are in accordance with the Constitution and that everyone's fundamental rights and freedoms are protected. Our group considers that the Chancellor of Justice has done well with this general task. Estonia's legal order and legal practice have evolved into a modern European democratic rule of law. It has certainly played a significant role in the professional work of the Chancellor of Justice and his office. In addition, Mr Teder's professional and outstanding communication style and the position of a constructive critic must be recognised. But becoming a rule of law cannot mean stopping development and progress. Last year, the Office of the Chancellor of Justice identified three priority areas for action: access to electricity for consumers, compliance of the functioning of the state with the Constitution and protection of the rights of children growing in a substitute home. These are undoubtedly important issues. We expect appropriate proposals and procedures to follow from the analysis that has been carried out. The assessment of the controlability and constitutionality of surveillance activities is particularly worthy of recognition for the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. However, not everything in this area has yet been completed. The so-called "surveillance operations archive," its status and regulation and the application of appropriate data protection to it certainly require further attention. In 2012, the Chancellor of Justice made nine proposals to the Riigikogu to bring laws into line with the Constitution. In most cases, the Riigikogu agreed to the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, but unfortunately not all of the proposals have been fully realised. There is nothing extraordinary about this in itself, because some of the proposals are debatable, these are questions of political rationality and choice. Work is being carried out to further organise the funding of political parties and to promote greater political competition. The subject of immunity of a member of the Riigikogu is also pending. The bill is ready for this. At times, however, it seems that the Chancellor of Justice has sometimes gone into the details of some not very important issues. This gives the impression that there are some important, acute and pending problems in society. Let me mention, for example, the constitutional right of same-sex partners to family life. I would like to mention that family life is a much broader concept than marriage. The issues to be resolved are also the right of the prisoners to vote, the protection of people from hate speech and anonymous hatred on the Internet, the compatibility of the current criminal procedure with the principles of the Constitution, respect for equal treatment and equal opportunities in public life, and many others. There is also the relationship and further development of EU-national law without more professionally working. Too often, the consistency between national law and European Union law has remained to be assessed by executive officials. The critical monitoring of the constitutional relations between the European Union and the Republic of Estonia was already referred to by the previous speaker and was right to do so. There is certainly plenty of room for improvement and a broad field of action with regard to the role of the Chancellor of Justice as Ombudsman. It is an activity that is clearly understood and visible to people and which specifically assists them, and it also presumably promotes a friendly dialogue between public authorities and people. Finally, the opinion or proposal of the Chancellor of Justice may be an important support for the Riigikogu in order to move forward and make decisions on the issue of legal policy that has reached the impasse. Thank you so much for what you've done.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U30	Thank you. I would like to ask Kajar Lemberi, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U31	Ladies and gentlemen, Good Chancellor of Justice! When I read this report, I developed a strange parallel with the year 2012. This year, it is remembered that Estonia was represented at Eurovision by the song 'Listen! '. I had the feeling that the title of the Chancellor of Justice's annual report would be a request to society to be heard more. The Chancellor of Justice is an independent official whose task it is to ensure that the laws in force in Estonia are in accordance with the Constitution and that the fundamental rights and freedoms of the people here are protected. I am pleased to note that the Chancellor of Justice has done this task quite successfully. However, in the context of 2012, I will address some aspects that have been said a little less. Firstly, political competition. Under the leadership of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Chancellor of Justice was asked to give an opinion on the funding of political parties and the political situation. At the time, the Chancellor of Justice felt that the development of an environment of political competition in such a way as to ensure a level playing field for existing political parties, on the one hand, and the possibility of new political parties, on the other hand, and their equal opportunities to compete with political parties already present in the House of Representatives, might be slightly shifted. In his view, the creation of a real opportunity for new entrants to power could play such a stimulating role that citizens would be more politically active. At the time, the Chancellor of Justice stated that, since support for political parties from the state budget has a significant impact on the environment of political competition, it is worth analysing the organisation of funding. Today, it is good to note that the Riigikogu and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are now working on this subject, both on the initiative of the Chancellor of Justice and certainly on the initiative of the Riigikogu or under pressure. We're barely moving, but we're still moving. Secondly, the subject of general pharmacies. The Chancellor of Justice has taken the view that the existing situation restricts competition, while the pharmacists' representative organisation takes the opposite view. The Social Democrats agree that restrictions may not have produced the effect expected at the time of their introduction, but their elimination would probably make the situation in the pharmacy market even worse. If restrictions are removed, there is a high risk that small pharmacies, especially in rural areas, will disappear at an even faster pace than they have done so far. There are certainly a number of flexible options for the solution, but our opinion is that simply removing restrictions is not the solution. This ball is currently in the hands of the Supreme Court and we are waiting for results. A few words about the ESM, which has already been discussed here today. It is worth recalling that the Riigikogu and the Chancellor of Justice disagreed, and the Supreme Court started at the time only by a unanimous majority to support the opinion of the Riigikogu. In the future, we should try to negotiate more of these problems. But the precedent has been set. The Chancellor of Justice has just told us that he has still stuck to his position that there is a problem. The ball is at the Riigikogu gate. Maybe next time we should do something different and try to argue these things more. One more point is the issue of citizenship, which has been on the table of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs all along, quite a few small issues. The Chancellor of Justice has also spoken about this matter on a number of occasions. The Chancellor of Justice made three proposals for us. If we are otherwise very rigid on this subject, the proposals of the Chancellor of Justice were nevertheless supported and a number of practical concerns were resolved. The markants were probably the case when the revocation of passports already issued by the state was reversed, but thanks to the action of the Chancellor of Justice, these people received a valid passport again. I think this is a very good positive example. Finally, I will address the subject of the Regional Minister's administration, which is very timely. In addition to the fact that there are still some unsolved problems in this area, as well as the Riigikogu and the Government, there is no single Supreme Court ruling... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U32	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U33	... fulfilled, the Chancellor of Justice in his report has set out a positive example. The amendment to the Law of the Government of the Republic specified the supervisory competence of the county governor, which has been the subject of disputes so far. The law now clearly states that the supervision of a rural elder extends to administrative acts of all local government units, etc. From this point on, it should certainly be asked whether the current overcantation of county elders in municipal elections in the municipalities under their supervision is quite appropriate and ethical. But, in summary, the Chancellor of Justice must certainly be commended for his good cooperation with the political groups and committees of the Riigikogu. The Social Democrats certainly hope that this cooperation will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U34	Thank you. I ask Marko Pomerants, representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U35	Good afternoon, good President and good Chancellor of Justice. I will also bring out some reactions to the Chancellor of Justice review from the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. In your presentation, you have nicely outlined the concept of a persistent soul, having been inspired by the recent or already less recent exposition of the History Museum, but I must say that it also describes you very well yourself. Welcome back to our midst with all our strength, despite the little forced absence in between! I would also like to point out that, despite what the political calendar in the form of one October date is writing us, you have had enough wit not to go along with these issues. Indeed, life is much more diverse than local elections, although local elections are also important in nature. Those who become councils will have to deal with problems in a variety of areas. The same is true of the Chancellor of Justice's ampouaa. When we look at this overview, we see that the topics are very different here. The reason is always the same, whether there is consistency with the Constitution, but I feel respect for you for handling a wide range of topics. Of course, life has brought these issues before you, but your own initiative to deal with potential problems must also be assessed. Certainly, the 'preventive' participation of this institution in preventing problems in real life is now and will continue to be important. But I certainly also want to acknowledge what has taken place in the legislative process at an earlier stage of the procedure for one or the other, if it is not just a reaction after the adoption of the draft as a law. If we look at the quality of our work here in the Riigikogu, I have noticed that in 2011 there was a conflict with the Constitution or laws in 21% of cases, with 13% in 2012. It is worth mentioning that it is worthwhile. Of course, it cannot be based on whether or not it is appropriate to comply with the Constitution, but certainly, in the various famous cases that have already been mentioned in this Chamber, the aspect of rationality has inevitably been on the table, whether it concerns the question of the ESM when crossing the border of the waiting area, the issue of tracking permits, or the issue of pharmacy restrictions which has been dealt with in very different situations in recent days. Thank you for your cooperation on behalf of the IRL. We hope that the principle that you have implemented will continue on both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U36	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. Dear colleagues, we are done dealing with the first item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U37	Let's move on to the second item. The first reading of the draft amendment to § 5 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U38	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this draft is to improve the capacity of local authorities to perform local government tasks and provide services. To this end, we provide for an increase in the taxable income of a resident natural person to 12,13% for the local government. During the economic crisis, the share of income tax received by municipalities was reduced to 11,4%. This was supposed to be a temporary measure. Estonia's economic growth has been positive in the last three years and the Ministry of Finance's 2013 spring economic forecast will also allow 3% growth by this year. In 2008, according to Statistics Estonia, the value of Estonia's GDP was 12,684 billion euros, but after the economic crisis it had risen to roughly the same level again by 2012, i.e. 12.588 billion euros. At the end of 2013, GDP levels are projected to be above 2008 levels. Against this background, it is fair for local authorities to hope that the share of income tax received by local governments will also be restored. By ratifying the European Charter for Local Government in 1994, Estonia acknowledged that local government has an indispensable role to play in the welfare of society. Recognising the principles of the Charter, it was confirmed that the Estonian state must provide local authorities with adequate financial resources that must comply with the obligations imposed on them by the Constitution and by law. Local authorities, however, currently do not have enough money to carry out their constitutional or state tasks. Additional money is needed in order to build kindergartens and schools, repair local roads, pay systems for educational and cultural workers, public transport and so on. In 2003, a fundamental change was introduced in the methodology for calculating the share of income tax allocated to the municipality. The collection was no longer calculated as a percentage of the total revenue received but as a percentage of the taxable income of the natural person. Since 2003, 11.4% of the taxable income of a natural person began to be received by the municipality. This rate was subsequently increased annually, in accordance with the functions transferred to local authorities and the budgetary negotiations. Since 2007, this rate was 11.9%, and by 2009 the share of income tax received by local authorities increased to 11.93%. On 20 February 2009, a law amending the additional budget for 2009 and related laws was adopted. This reduced the share of income tax allocated to local governments to 11.4%, thereby amplifying the already experienced and ongoing reduction in budget revenues due to the economic downturn. In addition to the reduction in fiscal revenues resulting from the economic downturn, the decision to cut the income tax share and the compensatory fund in 2009-2012 has reduced local living resources to almost EUR 190 million. This is the sum of less money in towns and municipalities for, for example, kindergartens, schools and street lighting, road repair, youth work and sports activities. In 2009, Estonian municipalities in Strasbourg approached the Congress of Local and Regional Governments of the Council of Europe in order to obtain an independent position as to whether the reduction of the income of local governments is compatible with the European Charter of Local Government. The congressional delegation then visited Estonia, and as a result of the visit a report was prepared in which the instructions given are still not followed. In the report, the Congress recommended that the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe propose to the Estonian authorities that the laws be amended quickly in order to channel most of the financial resources to the local government level. It also recommended that measures be taken to ensure a sufficient share of the national taxes imposed on local authorities. The draft is the first step towards restoring the income base of local governments. The initiators of the draft consider that, in addition to increasing the share of income tax received by municipalities, the Equalisation Fund and the Road Savings Fund must be restored to pre-crisis levels and the local tax system reviewed. A situation where the share of local taxes in the income base is only 1.1% is detrimental to the financial autonomy of the municipalities. The draft consists of two paragraphs. The first amends the Income Tax Act and the second provides for the entry into force of the Act. § 1 of the draft law amends § 5 (1) (1) (1) of the Income Tax Act in such a way that the taxable income of the resident natural person receiving the local government in 2014 is 12,13%. This amendment restores the pre-crisis level of the income tax part of the municipal budgets to 11,93%, plus an increase of 0.2% in the share of the income tax to be paid to municipalities intended to compensate for the land tax exemption. Paragraph 2 of the draft law sets the deadline for the entry into force of the Act as 1 January 2014. The proposal is also supported by the Cooperation Council of the Municipalities, which has proposed this to the Government Committee during the 2014 state budget negotiations. Their view is that the principles and benefits of the fiscal autonomy of local authorities must also be protected during the recession and decisions to cut the income base of local authorities could have been avoided. According to the tax forecast submitted by the Ministry of Finance, the income base of local authorities will also be lower in 2014 than before the February 2009 crisis decisions. Keeping the income base of local governments at a low level has made the development of local governments and the full use of EU support funds more difficult. A few words about the effects of the law and the cost of implementing it. In 2013, the share of income tax received by local authorities has been estimated at EUR 725.2 million, which is EUR 9 million less than in 2008. At the same time, the estimated income tax receipts in this year exceed the 2008 level by 6%. It should not be forgotten that the consumer price index has increased by 17,6% between January 2008 and January 2013. While the local government revenue base, which consists mainly of their income tax share, the equalisation fund, land tax, local taxes and environmental charges, was EUR 901.4 million in 2008, given the purchasing power of the money, it should be EUR 1 billion 58 million in 2013 in order for the municipalities to be able to provide services in the volume of 2008. Adopting the bill as a law will help improve the living environment organised by local authorities and improve people's social livelihood. Income tax received in 2014 by the state budget will reduce the bill by nearly 33 million euros, while it will have an equivalent positive impact on the income base of local governments. More specifically, the impact of the draft will depend on income tax receipts for the following year. The legislative amendment reduces income tax receipts in the state budget, but a smaller amount of income tax collection can be taken into account in the planning of the 2014 state budget, as the law would be in force on 1 January next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U39	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you accidentally screwed up. This "hands in hand" may apply to you, because you're the one who's just gonna take the money he's earned out of the government's pocket. It is the municipality that takes the land, creates an industrial park, works with investors, and then companies start coming to that municipality that reduce unemployment. Here comes the money you're gonna be distributing in the back room. In fact, you don't care if the municipality did something for the investors, what are his extra expenses, whether he can hire specialists with the money he has. You're the one sitting on your hands! You're not doing anything. In the most difficult times of crisis, you did nothing to reduce unemployment and help people in any way. You just watched the number of unemployed rise: 80,000, 100,000, 120,000, 137000. Your camp was a total peace. As for the promises, the right foot is in the bucket and the left foot is in the bucket. If I remember correctly, my esteemed colleague, your party didn't lie so brazenly that the communal expenses go down, and so on. In some municipalities, these same costs have now increased by 30.35%. But how should I feel, for example, that this hall was called from a newspaper today and asked for a comment on the news that the minister would send a new bill to the coordination circle and promise that it would lower the price of heat? Is this possible in the current situation or is it not possible? For five years, I have been busy dealing with a particular case of heat price increases in Narva. It's taken five years, we worked with municipal housing specialists. We attended meetings with our chosen colleague from Narva, Efendijev, in Helsinki and St Petersburg, where we met with academics and experts. Here, however, it is promised that the price will simply go down! How do you view it? The fish is starting to rot in the head. At first, look, dear colleague, what you will allow in your government and what your promises will come to an end, only after that fire, which will be allowed at local level. If it were up to me, I would, of course, reduce the value added tax on basic foodstuffs and lower the price with it. I guess those who allow it know how to do it. But you're not gonna let it happen anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U40	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U41	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I was prompted to ask the Government of the Republic's opinion on this bill. I really appreciate you touching bill 449. You also spoke on a very important subject when you asked what the task of a member of the Riigikogu was in this Parliamentary Chamber. When I, during the 449 debate on the draft law, dared to bring out certain facts in this Chamber, the story ended with the Minister of Finance calling me out. When you read the opinion of the Government of the Republic, it says here: 'We consider it unrealistic to realise such hopes in the near future and call for caution in creating expectations that do not correspond to the country's economic capacity. " You too will be disciplined and advised to be careful. Does it not seem to you that our democratic state is somewhat inclined?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U42	Thank you. Democracy, I have already said, depends on all of us, about 900000 voters all over Estonia. There is no secret to me that many things are being done with a whip right now. In my constituency of Ida-Virumaa, specifically in Narva, political problems have been addressed for six years with the help of the prosecutor's office and the kapo. I've talked about this several times here. Inara, you remember the Minister in the Committee on Monetary Affairs called an idiot a member of the Reform Party Group. That's the level. The same person pitying old women who find it hard to live alone, it's better to die sooner. He also informed a member of the opposition that it could leave Estonia if nothing liked it. It's just one of those democracies, some people get dizzy, and they don't know where he is and what he's doing anymore. The result is that the estates are not on fire and the Germans are not dying, but the free children are already fleeing. I understand your concern very well, but once again I repeat that our will to change the situation is not enough; it must be wanted by the whole of Estonia, by the entire people of our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U43	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U44	I just can't stop asking. You're making old memories of how things used to be better when you were gathering in the corner and discussing things. In the old days, was it customary not to answer questions and hold them long? I asked you very simply: is it demagoguery if the local government allows food prices to be lowered? You made it to St. Petersburg in your response and anywhere, but I didn't get the answer. In the old days, if there was such a custom that the answer was brief and specific, then pull yourself together and try to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U45	Thank you. See, Valdo, you're in charge again! You're trying to force me into some kind of frame, and you realize that this process is not possible with each other. I can't do the same with you or your colleagues, I can't do it with any minister, no matter what. Tradition here to talk about what interests most is a long time ago. I remember a case when our current president was Minister of Foreign Affairs and was performing on this remote. Tõnu Kuba sat in the hall, and behind the minister was Toomas Savi. At one point, Tõnu asked the procedural question whether the President of the sitting could not make it clear to the rapporteur that he would respond specifically to the questions he would be asked, but would not pass on the delusions he had in his head. At that, Thomas Savi smiled beautifully and replied: "Firstly, we are absolutely free to speak in this Chamber and, as far as I know, your question was answered. Second, if a person does not understand the language, it is not possible to make it clear to him. " That was the answer, and that was the situation in the old days. Nobody licked anybody, sorry, butt. There was democracy. Of your party, I had the most contact with Andres Taimla, the Group of the Fatherland Alliance, Mart Nut. A lot of questions were solved. If I am now trying to recall who I have been talking to here since March 2011 about a possible solution to a problem, I must say that this has never happened, although in the old days it was typical. So the old days, which are not very old from 1999 to around 2005, were quite different from now on. I have reason to believe that we should try to get back to the democracy that was then. As long as I told you, I thought about your question, too, and I'm gonna answer you that way. It's not demagoguery. The autonomy of the municipality gives him many opportunities. If he accepts this responsibility, either through a catering establishment or student food, he can do so. But only if you government departments don't get in our pockets and steal money from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U46	Thank you. No further questions. I ask Urve Tiidus, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U47	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good afternoon, everyone. The draft 438 was at first reading in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 10 September. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the initiator of the draft act, Mikhail Stalnukhin, presented the content of the draft. The draft is intended to amend § 5 of the Income Tax Act. The aim is to increase the taxable income of a resident natural person to 12,13% of the local government unit. As the previous speaker has already said in detail here, it is planned that the draft will enter into force as a law on 1 January next year. I would point out that the share of income tax received by the local budget in 2013 is 11,57%. The Government's opinion was explained by Andrus Jõgi, Adviser to the Financial Management Department of Local Authorities of the Ministry of Finance. I am now talking about the issues that have arisen in the Commission and the debate that has taken place. As the draft explanatory memorandum refers to forecasts of GDP above the 2008 level by the end of this year, the possibilities for such a development were clarified. The explanations stated that the local government revenue base in real prices was in fact still at the back of 2008, but in nominal prices it was already at the same level. 2008 was quite atypical, the income base of local governments grew exponentially this year, 17%, while the country's economy was already in decline in the same year. It is therefore not a good year to base 2008 or a good reference year, explained by the Commission. Change in the income base and GDP of local governments in real prices 2003‐2017. The schedule attached to the opinion sent by the Government of the Republic to the Committee on Monetary Affairs was also reflected until 2008 on the website of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The same schedule shows that 2009 and 2010 are also a little atypical for the reference years. However, in the longer term, it can be seen from this schedule that the separation took place only in the period of boom and decline, since 2011 the development has been even and the income base and GDP of local authorities have been back on the same line. In the course of the consultation, it was noted that according to current forecasts, the revenue base of local governments will reach real prices in 2008 back in 2017. More about the debate. The Commission noted that the amount of compensation granted to local authorities for the exemption from the land tax from the State is higher than the real impact of the exemption. For information, the price of this exemption was less than EUR 9 million, while the compensation is paid this year at EUR 10,5 million and in 2014 at EUR 13,4 million. The question was asked that if the State were to carry out a regular land tax assessment, whether the potential loss of income would then be even higher, and whether a new land valuation would be discussed. Based on the information available, this will not be planned in the near future. The comment explained that it was possible to increase the total land tax to a maximum of EUR 24 million before the abolition of the tax on the land under domestic law. In the meantime, land tax has been raised to the upper limit in a number of municipalities, so there is now a potential possibility of increasing land tax to some EUR 5 million. The Commission asked how it would be possible to raise the salaries of local government employees and kindergarten teachers. This is currently not possible in many municipalities, while the state raises wages. It was asked that if the percentage of income tax is not changed, how much the income tax share of local governments will increase. In response, we have heard that this year it will be 8.7% and next year it will be 7.5%. It covers inflation and also helps raise wages. The Commission stated that the draft would generate around EUR 33 million less in the 2014 state budget and that no coverage would be envisaged. The originator explained that this does not affect the balance of the budget as it relates to policy choices. One member of the Commission also had the opinion that this draft could be supported, but he was not very sure whether 12,13% was the right percentage. The work of the Commission can be summarised by decisions taken: it was decided to place the draft on the agenda on 19 September (this decision was taken unanimously) and to reject the draft at first reading (with 6 votes for and 5 against and no abstentions). Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U48	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U49	Thank you. On 16 March 2010, the Supreme Court decided by its decision that the Constitution precludes legislative acts from distinguishing between self-governing and state tasks and where the state obligations imposed on the local government unit by law are not financed from the state budget. This bill seeks to transform the former part of the municipal income tax, which was reduced in 2009. If it is not supported, then it is as if the Supreme Court's ruling is ignored. How much has the state complied with this Supreme Court decision? What changes have been made as a result of this judgment?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U50	Thank you very much for your question, Mrs. Kadri Simson. The mandate of the Commission representative is known to have a certain limit. Your question needs to be deepened. However, I say that there have also been positive developments in the income base of local governments due to economic growth and greater budgetary opportunities. The same share of income tax received by local governments has increased slightly; it cannot be argued against. If it fell to 11,4% in 2009, it will be 11,57% this year. As we know, every year there are budgetary negotiations between the Government Commission and the Municipalities' Cooperation Council and there is also planned growth. You've just heard that maybe a little more victory has been gained for losing land tax than that real cost. So I still see positive developments. If the economic forecast improves, despite the fact that there has also been an increase in skepticism, no one directly prohibits the growth of the income tax that goes to local governments. Everyone understands it's necessary. I recall one thing from these negotiations. I know these negotiations are still under way and not all the details have been made public, but the information available is that we are talking about an increase in the percentage of excise duties on fuel. That's all I'm doing right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U51	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Reducing the income base of local governments was one of many cuts in 2009. At that time, rhetoric sent that if times were to improve, this revenue base would certainly be restored. But it's like the government doesn't want to rush it. I have a question for you as a representative of the governing government department: is there really no plan for the government to restore the income base of local governments to its former level?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U53	Thank you for your question. The answer to this question is a definite no. I still have to limit myself to what we discussed in the Commission. I recall that 2008 is the year on which we cannot plan the future for a very long time. Of course, we can discuss very thoroughly here whether everything that was in the booming season will come back quickly. I, too, would like it to come back more quickly, but I remain of the view that the government certainly does not have such a negative will.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U54	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Urve, a good colleague, you are a former mayor, too, and you should feel very well about the situation in the municipalities. After all, the salary of public employees is increased because the public sector would not run out of employees if wages were raised in the private sector. If local governments are unable to raise wages, should local government employees now go to work in the public sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U56	Thank you for that question. Only every person can make that decision. I am not convinced that local authorities will not be able to raise the salaries of their employees. This is possible because the revenue base is still increasing. We know very well that local governments are also given equalisation funds to grow their income base, the use of which can be decided by local governments in councils. I believe in the soundness of local governments and the wisdom of councils. I think that wage increases will be taken into account when budgeting. Perhaps, however, there are also certain advantages of working in local government and not all tend to be in the public sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U57	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U58	Dear waitress, Do I correctly conclude from the decision of the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the representatives of the political parties in the government coalition, who form the majority in the committee, believe that the local government's revenue base is currently sufficient for local authorities to carry out their statutory tasks?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U59	Thank you very much for your question. The Commission discussed a draft of 438 which aims to increase the share of income tax received by local authorities to 12,13%. This growth was not supported by the Commission with one vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U60	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I think you also know that in recent years the state has transferred a great deal of tasks to local authorities, but has hardly financed their execution. The local government's costs are not only wages, the municipal infrastructure, the fulfilment of obligations, etc. All these expenses have increased. However, the question is very simple for me: under what conditions and when does the state intend to restore the municipal income base to its former level?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U62	Thank you very much for this question. This issue was not discussed in the Commission and I therefore, as the representative of the Commission, owe you an answer. However, I stress that the Estonian state has a budgetary strategy and local governments have multiannual budgetary strategies, and every year before the budget reaches the Riigikogu there are long and thorough negotiations between the delegation of the Government Commission and the Municipalities Cooperation Council. This delegation represents local governments. Let's be honest, every year the restoration is getting closer. So once again, the same answer: things are developing for the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U63	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The Commission's discussions certainly, I hope at least, mentioned the process of administrative reform that has been taking place for a very long time. When we talk about the local government system as it is now, there is no way we can get past a substantial increase in the revenue base. If the number or structure of municipalities in the future is different or different levels of cooperation are enforced in different ways, then there could be some substantive discussion about the extent to which the instruments that should be in the hands of the municipalities in the new circumstances could be large. But right now, as I understand it, the coalition doesn't have an agreement here. One part of the government is working hard on administrative reform, but the Prime Minister says it will certainly not come. How does this bill look in that light?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U65	Thank you for that question. I have to say that neither the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, nor the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the opposition, nor the coalition, raised this question in connection with the draft law 438. Perhaps it is not right for me to start giving my personal opinion here, but I am absolutely convinced that this debate will come. You can't avoid that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U66	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Tarmo Tamme, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U67	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I was also the head of the municipality in 2009, when the country implemented these cuts. As a result of these cuts, we actually had to cut the salaries of all workers by up to 20%. We cut the mayor's salary the most in our town. In my opinion, it is strange that in the coming years, even 0.1% per year, the state has not been able to restore the income base of local governments. Not only was the income tax cut from 11,93% to 11,4%, which is 0.5%, but 75% was also reduced to road savings money and 25% to the equalisation fund. Something had to pay for all this and keep this sector alive. When it is said that income tax receipts are increasing every year and that we should be happy, remember that all costs have also increased. For nearly two years, we have been the fastest country in the European Union with an increase in prices, and it has taken this money back from the government's wallet. Municipalities cannot operate in such a way that when the price of electricity rises, the kindergarten or schoolhouse is left without light, or when the price of heating rises, the kindergarten or schoolhouse is left without heating. So the price increase has further increased the amount of money that local authorities are missing. It is no secret that in many cases the local government's budget is regulated by switching off street lighting lamps. Is this the kind of successful country of the European Union that will live in the darkness when autumn comes? Does the capacity of the municipality indicate how little street lighting lamps have been turned off? I don't understand why the government coalition doesn't understand this, and there's no solution. In fact, the whole root of evil is Tallinn. All the rest of Estonia's local governments will also be made available to make the best use of Tallinn. In total, the winner is Tallinn, where people come to live despite the spite of the government. Tallinn's income base is not decreasing, Tallinn's income base is growing because people come to live here. This policy should be brought to an end and the revenue base of local authorities restored. The bullying of Tallinn has not produced the desired effect. However, as a result of this bullying, all municipalities, including those led by Reform Party and IRL politicians, will lose. When you talk to them, they are quite sad and frustrated about why partymates have not been able to solve the problems of local governments. It is said that the share of income tax that goes to the local government will increase by 7 to 8%. It is state statistics that show such growth, but it is customary in Estonia that income tax is not paid, that money is withdrawn as a dividend, and that money is not actually received by local governments. It's such a deceiving picture. I do want to live in a country where local government workers can be paid the same salary as the state pays public employees. The increase in the salaries of public employees is correct, should have been done years ago and should have been done consistently. But how is it possible for local governments to raise employees' wages by 5% at a time? As you know, taxes will also be added to the wage component and this will make this cost even higher. Perhaps there are those municipalities that can do this, but I would like to know how many of them are there. Why are municipalities put in a worse position than the state? We're actually a country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U68	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject draft 438 at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote a draft proposal from the lead committee to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 38 members of the Riigikogu and 26 against, with no abstentions. The draft Act amending § 5 of the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group, 438 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. Dear colleagues, we are done dealing with the second item. Today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 11.54 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is probably not difficult to assume that the majority of Estonian residents live in some local governments, perhaps only a handful of people live in the Estonian state in such a way that they do not belong to any local government. It is not difficult to assume that all municipalities are interested in this legislative amendment. Do you think there is a local government that is against increasing the income base? Can there be a significant number of people in Estonia who may be opposed to increasing the income base of local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U70	Thank you for your question. I realized it consisted of two sides. The answer to the first part of the question, which was actually a rhetorical question, is that I cannot imagine any local government that would say no to increasing its revenue base. That's clear. Local authorities' associations have made their views on this issue very clear in the budget negotiations for next year. If I understood the question correctly, you asked if anyone would object. We all understand here, working with the state budget, that the government is solving its problems at the expense of who is weaker and unable to resist him. It's so easy for a child to take a coin out of his pocket to buy a beer. That's kind of what this model looks like. In my opinion, however, the foundation of our country is a strong self-government. One old movie remembers the sentence that we are from Tallinn, we pay. This is how the government should talk to local governments. Actually, there's a sentence about a commercial. In that commercial, the elephant stopped by some lean, took something and left. One person said, "Hey, he didn't pay! ' 'But he never pays! ' there was an answer. The desire not to provide local authorities with additional resources to the extent that may ever be the political basis. We all understand what this base is all about.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U71	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm just saying: not only was the income tax cut from 11,93% to 11,4% at the time of the recession, but it also reduced the road savings money by 75% and the compensation fund by 25%. It is strange in itself that municipalities have been able to survive and somehow exist in this situation. But if the state plans an increase of approximately 5% in the salaries of state employees in the state budget next year, how should the head of local government look in the eye at kindergarten educators and teachers of hobby schools and say that, unfortunately, he does not have the means to raise their wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U73	Thank you. I wasn't talking about the repair and the fine-tuning fund, because it's not just the subject of this bill. As a person with a local government background, I know, of course, that cuts were not just about income tax. But while we're talking about the subject, I'm gonna say a few words about the healing. This 75% cut will be gradually restored over the years. But what can be done with such a problem? We did a little research in Ida-Virumaa. It turned out that if there was a hole about a square metre in the road, it could be repaired with, for example, 1000 kroons. In the following year, this missed hole increased, not in arithmetic, but in geometric progression. Every year, this problem is aggravated and costs are increasing. So even if the money for road maintenance is restored, because of the wrong decisions of the government and the government coalition, much more funds are needed now than would have been necessary if the financing had been timely and complied with the rules in force. You were interested in the raise. Local authorities have been doing this for the last few years, they've been pushing it out somehow. What do I see as a problem here? It's a systemic problem. The thing is, the government is a bunch of bureaucrats. I've seen a lot in my life how a very nice person turns into a big boss, and in a year, two or three, he's a real bureaucrat who doesn't notice what's going on around him. This is exactly what has happened to our government. The main question is whether or not we are controlling his actions, whether or not we are dealing with it. It was a day-to-day work until October 2005, when a legislative amendment was introduced, according to which the local government council and the Riigikogu could not be elected at the same time. At the time, we often discussed one, two or three things with colleagues from different political groups. People felt that they had a strong connection with the local government from which they had been elected. The government simply failed at the time to do such crazy things as reducing tea savings. I think there was a fatal mistake in 2005. At the moment, we are not so dependent on our constituents, but on the leaders of the party. This is an artificially created situation where it is very easy to press a button on every command. This is a very good question of how to raise the salary of a kindergarten teacher or an internship coach, but it was and is only a local government problem and remains for years to come, there is nothing to be done about it. Ministers will soon be here, boasting that wages will rise in the public sector, and they will be calling on local authorities, although for objective reasons it will not be possible to raise wages there. Unfortunately, we in the Riigikogu have created this system ourselves and it is simply not possible to overcome it at this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U74	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U75	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good colleague! I realized from one of your answers that all the municipalities, as well as all the people who live in the municipalities, cannot oppose an increase in the income base of the municipalities, but the decision is made by a government with just over ten members and a coalition party in this hall, where there are just over 50 participants, perhaps not even 100 people. Am I right to understand that less than a hundred people decide whether municipalities can live or struggle, and all people who live on the territory of the municipality are similarly assigned to labor?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U76	Thank you. Yes, dear colleague, you understand perfectly. This situation has a very long history. There was once the power and sub-city power in Tallinn, and they often went hard too. Iron rings can still be seen on the streets of Tallinn, with which the people of the city below tried to stop the Germans from coming from above. Yeah, that's right, and that's how it works. It's called democracy, which I think Churchill said was a very bad system for the country, but there's nothing better anyway. There is nothing to be done if promises are believed that someone will reduce utilities, such purely demagogic promises, what can be expected. If you know a person's background, you know what he's done, but after you believe another lie that comes out of his mouth, you have to accept the consequences. I would not say that this is acceptable, but that is democracy: we will get exactly what we have chosen. If your local government is struggling in poverty and you are no longer able to pay for heating or electricity, this is your collective decision. That's not what I'm telling you, but to those who watch us live. I hope people will understand that someday.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U77	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U78	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You rightly said that local authorities were literally struggling. The government has made three fundamental mistakes. Firstly, it has reduced the revenue base of the municipalities. Secondly, it has not reduced the level of compensation for all the costs incurred by the municipalities. After all, the standard of living is now much higher, and the local authorities also need to spend more. Thirdly, municipalities are prohibited from borrowing, which means that they will not be able to contribute to the funding of the European Union's support funds for the next period. Do you have any information that the Government of the Republic is even planning to improve the income base of local governments and, if so, by what methods?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U79	Thank you. It is understandable and perfectly clear that I do not have such information, nor can I have it. We communicate with the Government of the Republic during the sessions in this Chamber, for example, when there is a free microphone or some sort of debate. That's all there is to it. These are old customs, they are probably now considered to be silly practices when ministers regularly went to the political groups, as well as to the opposition groups. It's all long forgotten. Nobody talks about plans, what they do and how they do it. Rather, on the contrary, it is simply the political will that is being pushed through. As bad as the situation in our country is now, it has never been. Inara, you know that perfectly well. You've been at Koidula Station. We've met specialists here. Let me give you another example of this. Everyone is saying that there should be no decision-making option at the border; there should be strict rules, such as in Latvia, Lithuania and Finland. For some reason, the people of the border regions are counted there. We don't want to do that at all. We have understood, all the Members of the Commission, the representatives of all the political groups have understood what the people want. Strangely enough, the interests of residents and customs workers on the border coincide. I have never seen such a thing like this so that there would be such solidarity between the two parties who actually have such a conflict. But what do we see? After all this work, after a round table at the Riigikogu are brought here is brought here in the draft draft draft draft act 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 9 We are living in a system that the President once called a rubber stamp. If a few years ago it seemed that it could be repaired somehow, in the current relationship of force, this rubber stamp simply becomes universal. Soon we will have no chance of even discussing the matter in this Chamber, because there is no one to discuss it with. As an older person, I have the mistake of constantly reminding myself of old times. Do you know why the work of the Riigikogu was different from what we are doing here ten years ago? You, ladies and gentlemen, would have had a bill written on the table ten years ago. What did it mean? It is that, if you suddenly became interested in something that I speak here as a representative of the opposition, you would have been able to take a bill with a simple hand motion and check who is right, whether I or, for example, the official who appeared before me. Then it would be possible to think. But right now, there's no way. We're told we have an e-state, everyone has computers. I've been watching very closely, but I've never seen anyone who writes an article in this room or looks at something in Delfi looking for a document to be discussed. You've been deprived of this opportunity. Did you take the bill text? Most people don't. They even put a reduced number of them on that shelf. But you've been cut off from information, you don't have a chance to think on the spot here. You come here like machine guns to push the button. Recently, I was looking at the 2001 verbatim charts. I had a particular interest. I looked through one day. There were eight questions on the agenda, and twice a coalition party took a break before voting. At the time, it looked like people got up and went to the corner of the hall to discuss. On one occasion, however, they decided that they would vote as they had previously decided at a group meeting, but on the other they changed their decision, announced it, and then the reading of the draft was suspended. That was typical back then. People thought, and they wanted to. How do you go to the self-government where you've been elected to the council and say that you voted in favour of the state just taking away the repair money and sticking it in your pocket! Unfortunately, the situation has changed. It's a democracy. Whether you like it or not, this situation no longer depends on us, it only depends on the voters.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U80	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U81	Thank you very much. Good waitress, you have questions. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-19_U82	Thank you. I understand that you represent this ideology, that you have to wait for the money. I do have ideas about what the municipality could do to increase its income base. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. I noticed you were talking about demagogic campaigns when busy local authorities promise to cut utilities. Now, when I hear that a busy local government allows food prices to be lowered, should I, as a simple person, believe that this is possible, or should I treat it as demagoguery?
