ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Good afternoon, ministers. Let's start the 4th of December briefing. Let's do the presence check first! 29 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 72 are missing. Today's Question Time will be attended by Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U2	The first question has been put by Valeri Korb to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, and the subject is the ambulance reform. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U3	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! The current decree of the Minister for Social Affairs of 2007 finances at least 90 ambulance brigades from the state budget, of which six are Reanmobile Brigades and 84 are nursing and medical brigades. By order of the Director-General of the Health Board from February 2013, the number of ambulance brigades was appointed, which will be operational from 1 January 2014. The total number of ambulance crews is 117, i.e. plus 27. How many ambulance brigades will be financed from next year's state budget and how will medical brigades be financed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U4	Next year, the funding of ambulance brigades will increase by 5% compared to this year's level and this will amount to EUR 7 million. You said the number of ambulance brigades would increase next year. It really is. The rumors that next year the number of ambulance crews might decrease are certainly not true. There's gonna be more ambulances. If there are 90 now, the reform should result in 117.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U5	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U6	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. Viru County, divided into two service areas, Harju-Viru and Virumaa areas, is a major mess in the provision of emergency services. The Health Board has proposed to AS Karell Ambulance to conclude an administrative contract in both regions. Rakvere Hospital AS and Ida-Virumaa Ambulance SA have decided to challenge the proposals made by the Health Board in court. My question is whether the Health Board intends to conclude an administrative contract with Karell Ambulance AS for the provision of emergency medical services in the Harju-Viru and Virumaa areas, who do not have adequate technical equipment and required staff.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U7	I must admit that this issue is too specific for the Prime Minister. I know there's been a call for an ambulance service in Ida-Virumaa. I also know that the first call failed, no reliable ambulance service was found. The second tender has been successful, but this participant, who did not turn out to be the winner, has challenged the outcome of the tender. What the state of the dispute is now, is unknown to me. It's probably the court's comment, not the Prime Minister's comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U8	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U9	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. The third question relates precisely to the conduct of these competitions. Administrative contracts were awarded in 2013 through competitions for the provision of ambulance services in ten regions. The first competition did not produce results in three regions and the conduct of the competition in three regions has led to litigation. The fact that five out of ten regions have encountered problems in the conduct of the competition is characterised by the quality of the preparation and conduct of the competition. The information provided by the Agency on the results of the call does not explain why the selected tenderers were better than others, the competition for the award of management contracts is neither transparent nor verifiable. My question is whether or not the government intends to monitor the ambulance competition?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U10	Thank you. The organisation of such competitions is subject to specific rules of procedure. If some parties consider that not all the rules of procedure have been complied with, there is also a very clear appeal procedure. In the case of Ida-Viru County, as I understand it, the procurement is currently being challenged. I'm pretty sure the court will ultimately decide and the ambulance service provider will be found in Ida-Virumaa. The government doesn't tender, the government isn't the one who's supposed to do the monitoring. If the problem you are referring to, based mainly on the example of one county, is more general and general, then I do not exclude that the government or the Riigikogu should also intervene. As far as I know, this is not the case right now. It is one of the opponents who has participated in the procurement but has not won the procurement.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U11	Thank you. Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U12	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! Indeed, more ambulances will be created and there will be around 100, but only 15 of them will be medical brigades. So this whole visit is based on nurses. The nurses themselves also say that they do not like to perform medical duties. We also know that doctors have a much higher hourly cost, EUR 8, and nurses have EUR 4.5. Do you not think that the quality of our medical care will deteriorate in this regard? We know that doctors who are made redundant are not put to work, for example, in emergency medicine, although they could be put to work, and then, of course, they would be laid off abroad. But the main thing is quality.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U13	I'm not a very good ambulance specialist, but, as far as I know, before the reform, we have 16 medical brigades, after reform or reform, we should have 15. So there will be no significant change in the number of medical brigades in Estonia. You can't talk about redundancy in plural either. If the 16 medical brigades are left with 15, this is not an extensive reduction of medical brigades. Yeah, it's a big increase in the number of sister brigades, but it's general. The number of ambulance crews will be increased and this increase will be due in particular to the fact that the most important speed is to save lives. It has been found that the current structure, where there is once again the memory of the 54 areas in which ambulance brigades operate, is too fragmented. There will be 10 regions after the reform, but more ambulance brigades will be available in 10 regions, i.e. the provision of ambulance services will become more effective, faster and ultimately the patients should win.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U14	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U15	Thank you. Prime Minister! I do not agree with your opinion that patients will win. I think this ambulance reform has failed a bit. When you told Valeri Korb that these problems were only around Kohtla-Järve, I would bring you Southern Estonia for example and ask you if it is worth organising such competitions, which will result in Tõrva serving Räpina, Pärnu Rannapungerja and about that. Why are we extending the distances like this? The same Põlva could serve Põlva and Valga Valga. It seems to me that this reform has failed in its entirety, with at least one leg, and there is no way of talking about any improvement in the quality of medical care. I think you have the wrong numbers on this. In the future, we will see how many more dead people are facing challenges than we are now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U16	Thank you. My understanding is, however, that the brigades who provide ambulance services in some area are located on site. The principle of subsidiarity is certainly one of the prerequisites for the provision of ambulance services, not the provision of ambulance services far from where a specific foundation or company is registered. That doesn't make sense. The ambulance service provider must be in the area where the service is provided and, in accordance with this principle, this reform is also planned and organised. Patients will certainly win by the fact that the service providers, I mean the number of ambulance crews, will come up.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U17	Thank you. We've exhausted the first issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U18	Let's go to the next question. The next questioner is Helmen Kütt, the question is for Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, and the issue is the preparation and processing of the state budget. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U19	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of Finance! Yesterday, the International Day of People with Disabilities was celebrated throughout Europe. In Estonia, it was celebrated for the 21st time. A major conference was held with the Minister of Social Affairs, Mr Taavi Rõivas, and the presentation was presented by Ene Ergma. However, in the second reading of the state budget in this large hall, it was a surprise for many members of the public, including me, that although the President had already announced on 20 June a law on the cancellation of student loans for parents of children with deep disabilities who care for their children, there was no budget available for this purpose. My question is, how is it possible that the Riigikogu has passed the law, the President has declared it, it has been published in the Official Journal of the State, but in the second reading of the budget this lack of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U20	Thank you. I've been dealing with this subject, but I'm not quite sure about the current situation. I assume you have checked this fact, so it can still be dealt with at third reading. This is, in itself, a reflection of very poor financial practice, where a financial burden is placed on the budget by bypassing people involved in finance. If we have initiated such things in the government, then it is always the eyes of the Minister for Finance that either proposes a financial constraint or provides that the new regulation will be reflected first in the draft state budget and then in the state budget. But it came from one of the Riigikogu committees in such a way that the information simply did not move and the opinion and budget were not taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U21	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U22	Thank you for your answer. I certainly do not agree with you that only those drafts that come through the Ministry of Finance are good drafts and there is no reason for MPs or political groups to submit any drafts in this Chamber. I would just like very much to congratulate the Committee on Culture and Mr Urmas Klaas, who understood the real need for this law to address the problem of parents of both children with deep disabilities and children with severe disabilities, and a nice compromise was found on parents of children with deep disabilities. However, if the law has been passed and announced six months before the beginning of the new financial year, then ministries have enough time to cooperate with each other. Actually, I would have liked to ask you if the money was in the budget at third reading, but I understand you don't know how to answer it today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U23	Thank you. I can tell you that you just put words in my mouth. I have never said that drafts can only be submitted by the Ministry of Finance. I said that all the drafts must have the expert's eye on them, the finance expert's eye on them, and this information must move. This change is poorly organised. The old truth is that the way of hell is paved with noble intentions. When you do some things with a very big heart, but when you do things badly, there's going to be a downfall instead of a good thing. Be more open in the Riigikogu sometimes in this sense, that if you do something, have the figures checked and check that the information is moving early. As far as the cancellation of student loans is concerned, I think this is the wrong way to support families of people with disabilities at all. This is disproportionate and making support dependent on whether or not a loan has been taken. This is the wrong way. All families of disabled children should be treated equally and certainly better than they are currently treated. I really think that people with disabilities and their concerns have been taken into account in comparison with some of the most powerful interest groups in Estonian society. But taking a student loan should not be a criterion for supporting them. That's definitely wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U24	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U25	Honourable Minister of Finance! We certainly disagree because you are a finance specialist and I am a social person. But I'm sure these people took student loans when they were young, in love, got married, and their family had a child with a deep or severe disability. As a result, they cannot start working and it is not possible to repay the student loan from EUR 25. I find it ugly to say that this is the wrong way to help their families. I don't really have a question. I very much hope that this amount will be included in the budget at third reading, but if it is not there, this previously adopted law must be repealed in the Chamber of the Riigikogu before the adoption of the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U26	I still have to respond to the statement. I repeat: I do not agree with you that a disabled person's family must take a student loan in order to receive support. It's not like all of them have taken student loans after the baby was born, some have taken them before. This must not be the basis for receiving or losing support. Disability benefits must be systematic, not only taking into account student loans, but also other risks. Families should be treated equally. Once again, treated better than before, but equally.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U27	Thank you. Now two issues registered on the spot. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U28	Dear Minister, Last year, you gave a lot of families with children the hope that they would receive needs-based family support from July this year. This need-based €9 per child per month should have reached more than 30,000 families. The need-based family allowance is currently available for 3370 families with children, and it costs 51411 euros from the state budget. My question is: has there been a financial expert's eye here to avoid spending money? After all, this change in the payment of subsidies, which has been mentioned for reform with great fuss, will only help a tenth of the families you promised to help out of poverty. Should this amount not have been increased with the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U29	Thank you. I'm a little surprised. I have been invited to speak about the budget being drawn up, and now it is starting to dominate what is denying it, a matter entirely within the remit of the Minister for Social Affairs. I'll try to answer it anyway. What exactly is the number of beneficiaries, of course I could not bring that number. But the reform is undoubtedly when universal subsidies are made more needs-based when families are supported more from a third child. After all, the grants are quadrupled, and the need-based element is introduced into the grants. I think this is the most right way to support children. It's actually the only way society gets to the weak. If we all receive the same support, for example, in this hall, as if we were equally unemployed somewhere in South Estonia, I will be referring to your constituency, we will not be wealthier. Then we will have less money to improve the lives of the real sufferers. Let's divide each other, collect each other's taxes and divide each other equally back.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U30	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U31	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! The subject of the next year's budget in the Riigikogu has been almost the taxation of corporate passenger cars by value added tax. I, as an entrepreneur, and I also know many other entrepreneurs who, in principle, might not be against it. It's precisely because it came overnight, not to be negotiated. Now you come back here and press this tax. Do you really think that the budget is so tense and that money from somewhere else will not be found to be able to negotiate and impose the tax on these passenger cars seriously before next year? I don't understand why you're pushing it and pushing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U32	Thank you. It's very sympathetic that you understand the reason behind this bill. The reason is, above all, that buying cars in the company's name is subject to a high tax credit. This is exactly an upside down picture of what is happening elsewhere in Europe, where passenger cars are subject to various additional taxes. Instead of encouraging their purchase, VAT is mostly not allowed to be refunded at all and cars still have extra taxes. The budgetary issue is currently largely a legal issue. The Riigikogu, when reducing revenue sources, must also reduce costs or income. Nor is it an obsession with budgetary balance; our budget is not balanced; the basic budget is even in a proper position. But this is an additional argument that it is not just to write down a tax that is very well founded, to which there are actually very few arguments, apart from the fact that it has been rushed. It's a small exaggeration overnight. This thing happened over a few nights. Now more than a hundred nights have passed; now we should take that argument down, not demand that there be a thousand or a thousand one nights.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U33	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the second point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U34	Let's go to point three. Neeme Big has a question for Minister for Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder about the impact of the European Fisheries Fund support on the reduction of fishing capacity of the active fleet. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U35	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of Agriculture! With a view to protecting fish stocks, the European Union has paid grants to fisheries companies to compensate for the abandonment of fishing vessels. In essence, this means that if a fishing company lifts its operational vessel out of the water and cuts it into scrap and thereby reduces its fishing capacity, the European Union will pay it a considerable amount of support. The Estonian state has implemented the practice that companies have been given back fishing capacity, which they have renounced, so-called free fishing capacity, while the companies have acquired new and even more powerful vessels for the support money they have received. It is even more interesting that it has also happened that the ships purchased for these same grants have also been cut down, and the companies have applied again for and received support for this. How do you describe this wonderful scheme?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U36	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate the National Audit Office, which has audited the implementation of the fisheries policy and found individual tricksters who are trying to make a 'rhepapp' or pretend to be eligible and thus get easy money. The day-to-day work of the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as of the PRIA, is catching such tricksters and tricksters have been reduced year by year. This is what we are doing in controlling the use of both the EFF and the rural development fund and the agricultural fund. In my opinion, the National Audit Office has gone too far with its generalisation regarding fisheries policy and the implementation of this measure as a whole. I consider the implementation of this measure as a whole to be very successful and, in this form, it has also been assessed by external experts. I would say that the National Audit Office has found flies in the honey pot, but has not noticed the forest behind the trees. I'm sure you'll ask some further questions, and then I can explain that to you, too, because in two minutes that answer didn't fit right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U37	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, the first point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U38	Thank you, Madam President. The National Audit Office also provides a very specific example in its audit. The ship owner demolished two vessels with a total capacity of 331 kW, receiving State support of EUR 415000. The company reinvested the aid received by purchasing two new vessels with a total capacity of 574 kW for EUR 380000. It was then decided to demolish one of these vessels again and the PRIA re-allowed EUR 548000 of aid. The State spent EUR 963000 and ultimately the company's fishing capacity was even higher than before the implementation of this scheme. How does this scheme comply with Estonian law and the principles of the European Fisheries Fund (EFF) measure?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U39	Thank you. First of all, you made one big mistake on your question. Your argument is incorrect. No one will be given back the capacity. No one has recovered their fishing capacity. Don't shake your head, all right? Make it clear to yourself. We can also explain it by letter, we can meet and communicate. With two minutes' answers, it may not be possible to explain this to you, but I will try. Our aim and obligation is to reduce the overall capacity of fishing vessels in the register. Each fishing vessel to be cut, i.e. disposed of, by aid shall be reduced in the fishing vessel register and shall not be returned. At the same time, in Estonia, we have granted shipowners the right to reinvest with this support, or renovate the ships that remain with them, or buy a new ship. However, it may not increase fishing capacity, it can be done either on the account of available capacity or on the account of vessels which withdraw from the register by the shipowner without receiving any support or which it buys up from other shipowners who have such capacity. It may thus increase its fishing capacity, but the overall volume of the register is decreasing. These rules and objectives have been taken into account. As a result, we have hit two flies at once, meeting two objectives: reducing the overall fishing capacity in the national fishing fleet register and renovating the remaining fleet, modernising it, making it greener, more modern, less fuel consuming, which has actually been the goal. This has been right in every way and has been appreciated by external experts. Firstly, cutting Estonian ships, i.e. eliminating capacity, has been the cheapest in the European Union during this period, because we have done so by less bid, and secondly, the efficiency of the remaining fishing fleet has increased the most for us and the English. In any case, this has been a very successful measure in its entirety.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U40	Thank you. Neeme the Great, please, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Now, if you look closely at the verbatim, I am very aware that fishing capacity has been restored at the expense of available fishing capacity. They have been restored to the same companies that have received support for abandoning fishing capacity. Although everything seems, and as is legally correct, I ask whether the PRIA has treated all operators operating on the fishing market equally when implementing such schemes, and whether there will be no sanctions on the part of the European Union in relation to 80% of cases of reinvested aid for the abandonment of fishing capacity.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U42	Thank you. I don't think I've answered about this particular case. This is the case where aid to reduce the fishing fleet, i.e. to cut fishing vessels, buys a new vessel and the same new vessel will also be cut and received, it is certainly not the aim of this measure and such trickery has not been taken into account in the development of the measure. This is where I thanked the National Audit Office for its attention. We will certainly try to change the legislation so that such a trick will not be possible in the future, in the new period. But this is an isolated incident that, of course, must be condemned. In all other cases, this measure has justified itself. I would like to point out that the National Audit Office should actually monitor the process more widely and also look at a longer period of time. In fact, we now also have a measure that allows investment in the fishing fleet. This is not this ship cutting measure, but another measure. The same companies that cut and reduce the fleet will also be able to use the money of the second measure. Our idea was that they could also use the cutting money to invest. It is not wise to spend this money on summering in the Canary Islands or buying a cottage, but to invest it back in the fleet in order to make it more environmentally friendly by reducing the overall fishing capacity of the register. So it has been perfectly reasonable that this money can be used under the same measure. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, until the end of 2004, the European fisheries policy allowed all Member States to invest in upgrading and increasing fishing capacity. Estonia and several other Eastern European countries joined in 2004 and a situation arose where the old European Union Member States had a renewed fleet and had a '30-year-old' fleet. It wasn't knowingly done, it was a coincidence of circumstances. Our aim is to help our fishing fleet to ensure that what remains is environmentally friendly and effective. So I think the overall objective was very correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U43	Mr. Minister, thank you very much. Let's try to fit in two minutes. A matter registered on the spot. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm concerned about the ports where our fishing fleet is docking. We know that the current financial period is a few months away, but a relatively small share, or even 0%, of the support for the reconstruction of our ports has been used. Perhaps you can tell us whether, by the end of this period, we will be able to make use of all the money and what the use of the money is now stuck behind?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U45	Thank you. Of the port investment money, 0% has certainly not been used. Most of the money has been spent, but some of the money has indeed not yet been used. I think we can make good use of all the money. For quite a number of measures, there is a situation where all the money in the current period cannot be used in a specific measure. In this case, we will move the money between the various measures, and when the end of the period approaches and we find out that one or the other project has not been realised, where the applicant has been approved, then we have planned to raise this money to the financial instrument and use it relatively quickly through the Rural Promotion Foundation. We have been thinking about the end of this financial period, because there will certainly be more failed projects. But it is not right that the port investment money has been used at 0%.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U46	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U47	Let us go to the next question put by Priit Toobal to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The question is about financing sport. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U48	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister! Estonia's sport, including the alms and Olympic Committees, is broadly funded from three sources, has state support, is the support of local governments and is sponsoring. The question is about sponsorship, which in turn is divided into two: sponsorship of private operators and sponsorship of state-owned enterprises. The last one, I think, has caused a pretty serious fight within the government at least. We discussed this in this briefing some time ago. Then you promised that you would discuss this issue in the government's office, which is mainly to speak to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Parts. I am now asking whether you have discussed this in the government office and which position is left, either yours, that supporting Estonian sport by state companies is a normal phenomenon, or the opposite.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U49	Thank you. We have not yet discussed this issue at the meeting of the Cabinet. I don't think it's a question of who's gonna stand on it. If state-owned companies should not be engaged in developing their reputation in Estonia, this would be a very peculiar management model that the rest of the world does not know. Therefore, I do not consider it possible that we prohibit state-owned companies from organising their relations, including through cultural or sports sponsoring. I also have not understood that this would be the wish of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. It wants to establish more precise rules, and this is to be welcomed. We currently have a State Assets Act stating that state-owned companies can use 1,5% of their profits for sponsorship, marketing, at least sponsorship.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U50	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U51	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good Prime Minister! It seems to me that you are somewhat divided with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. It is as if he wants to ban sponsoring state companies like the Port of Tallinn has tried to refer to the Estonian Olympic Committee at all. I personally consider this right if Estonian state-owned or state-owned enterprises support Estonian sport. But I do not understand, for example, the behaviour of Estonian Air, which supported the Finnish Ice Hockey Union in our neighbouring country. I'm asking about it. A few months ago, we had this conversation right here in Question Time. How much did Estonian Air still support the Finnish Ice Hockey Alliance? Juhan Parts has said that 100,000 euros, journalists talk about half a million. In Question Time, you also said that the amount was more than 100,000. Do you now know the amount with which Estonian Air supported the Finnish Ice Hockey Alliance?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U52	I don't know. I can only rely on information from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. According to this information, as I said in response to the inquiry, Estonian Air has supported the World Ice Hockey Championship with EUR 170000. The payment obligation for this year was EUR 90000. Now I hear that Estonian Air has not paid this EUR 90000. I have also read an article saying that the actual cost was much higher than the EUR 170000 that was in the information provided to me by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. I don't know how to comment on these claims. Obviously, it is in the public interest to find out the truth in this matter and I do not think that references to confidentiality are appropriate here. If we are talking about a special check for the Port of Tallinn, I think that special check is also important for Estonian Air to determine the extent to which taxpayers' money has been spent to sponsor the Ice Hockey World Championship. That should be found out. There is no Estonian Air on the sponsor list on the hockey MM website. As I have said in reply to an inquiry in the Riigikogu, this should mean that it is marketing costs when viewed by Estonian Air.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U53	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U54	Thank you. Prime Minister! I, too, fully agree that it is in the public interest to find out how much one public undertaking has given to the Finnish Ice Hockey Association through marketing or sponsorship. All the more so, the information about this amount is so different within the government, your knowledge and the knowledge of Minister Parts differ considerably, not to mention what amounts are mentioned in the press. Am I right to understand that such a special check to determine how much Estonian Air has supported the Finnish Ice Hockey Alliance has already been launched? If not, how should this procedure look, when could it start and when could the results be expected? Don't you think the DA's office should consider at least looking into it? Perhaps there is the same risk of conflict of interest as the prosecutor's office has seen in the case of the Port of Tallinn and the Olympic Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U55	Thank you. I am not aware of any circumstances that might indicate the need for the prosecutor's office to intervene in finding out the truth. With regard to Estonian Air, we are discussing tomorrow's meeting at the cabinet. I've asked the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to give an overview of the sponsoring of the Ice Hockey World Championship or marketing related to these races. I hope tomorrow I'll be much smarter than today. It is true that Estonian Air is a company, a public limited company, whose shareholder is not only the Republic of Estonia, but also a partner. It is not for one owner to decide what information can and cannot be disclosed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U56	Thank you very much. Two questions registered on the spot, please. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U57	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! As a sports enthusiast, do the Estonian Public Broadcasting receive additional money from the state to show the World Football Championship in Brazil?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U58	Now I don't know if I can answer that question or not. When I was asked this question at the press conference, I answered as I understood it, as I feel and feel right, and then the newspaper editorial told me that I would speak on such a small subject. For me, football World Cup is important and there are quite a lot of people like me in Estonia, at least 200,000 people in the finals. I consider the broadcast to be very important at the World Football Championship. The money needed to bring the World Football Championship to the Estonian people must definitely be found. I hope that the Riigikogu will also make such a decision during the procedure of the state budget and will find additional resources for national broadcasting. But, of course, it should have been laid down in the national broadcasting when they signed the contract, where the money comes from in order to comply with the agreement in order to bring the World Football Championship to the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U59	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U60	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister! I think it is right that all these 20 years of independence and more have supported our sport by companies belonging to the Estonian state. On the other hand, I find it extremely ridiculous and incomprehensible how Juhan Parts, alongside this great and difficult ministry, finds time to deal with such a pseudo-problem. You said that the government hadn't discussed the matter or put it right in the house, and you didn't tell me when you were going to do it. Will it happen and will it happen in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U61	Yeah, I hope it's happening in the near future. For an athlete or some kind of cultural event, it is no matter where the money comes from, from the state budget or from a state-owned company. However, for a State-owned company, it does not matter whether to pay dividends or support a particular cultural or sporting event, a sports organisation or a particular athlete. If only dividends are paid, public relations objectives will not be achieved. If a cultural event is supported, the sympathy of people who care about a particular cultural event will be won. If the State-owned company supports the local government in whose territory it operates, the sympathy of the local population will be won, and this sympathy will enable the commercial activities to be effectively promoted or extended in the territory of that local government. If one state-owned company does not have such public relations resources, then relations will not be organised and business will inevitably start to rattle. I would like to remind you that the Port of Tallinn in question is currently the largest taxpayer in Estonia and also the largest provider of dividend income to the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U62	Thank you very much. Let us stop discussing this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U63	Next is Jevgeni Ossinovski's question to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi about the requirement for Estonian language skills in the positions of the Ministry of Finance. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U64	Thank you. Minister of Finance! I have sent you a written question on this issue so that you can respond more fully, but I would like to know your position in this format as well. Looking at the job instructions available on the website of the Ministry of Finance, it turns out that most positions require the proficiency of Estonian at C2. Level C2 is basically educated, the level of native speaker of Estonian. According to the requirements of SA Innove, it is not possible to take a proficiency test at this level. This means that a large number of people living in Estonia cannot go to the Ministry of Finance because of this, even though they can actually speak the language at a high level. How do you assess a situation where the institution you manage requires a level of language that cannot be demonstrated in Estonia at the moment?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U65	Thank you. I'm not very familiar with this scale. You said C2, as far as I know, officials are required by the government order of C1 and other officials of the administration, B2. Why don't you put those two together? But maybe it's also some sort of specific competitions you've been doing here. I'm practically evaluating the situation. The Ministry of Finance, like any other ministry, produces a very large number of written documents and must be able to do so by any proper official. I myself have been, ashamed to say, a very demanding language censor, I have sent a great many letters right back to the beginning for linguistic reasons and, of course, also for reasons of argument. From the beginning, I have instilled in the meetings that we are cultural creators, that we create a single language sphere, an official language. I have fought with bureaucratic expressions, pulpit and parasitic words quite vigorously. I am saying that the result is very good, and in five years the quality of the texts has improved considerably.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U66	Thank you. Please, Evgeni Ossinovski, the first point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U67	Thank you. This issue is much more fundamental. No one disputes that ministry officials must generally speak Estonian at a high level, but proficiency in Estonian at a high level means language proficiency at the C1 level according to the criterion of the Council of Europe in Estonia. Innove SA says about C2 language skills that both a high level of proficiency in Estonian and a foreign language must not be required in Estonia at any workplace and therefore C2 exams will not be conducted. No C2 exam is required in any competition currently in progress, C1 is required, which is also correct. Does the Government of the Republic regulation not mention C2 language level, because it is so high that it is not required in Estonia? However, most of your institution's job descriptions have C2 language level as a requirement to work in this position, although this level cannot be achieved in any way in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U68	Thank you. A more fundamental question than Estonian language and culture in the Estonian state, in that sense I do not agree with you. But once again, as far as I know, what's required is C1. But it's a good thing you brought attention. I ask if I have ruined anything, whether there is no more courage to employ people who do not meet my demands for documents. Then I've got a result I didn't expect. Still, I've been waiting for the superiors to go over those letters in terms of language. They know it, and they've done it. So you have to see what this C2 means and whether it's written in competitions. It is clear that this is rather the type of technical activity in which the Minister does not intervene directly. He intervenes in those documents which he himself uses, which he himself signs, but not in the secondary requirements of the staff competition. The main thing we are waiting for is the professional competence, and we hope that the entire team in a particular department will also be able to produce linguistically correct texts. No official has a problem in the speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U69	Thank you. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U70	Thank you. Indeed, the question is technical, on the one hand, but on the other, it is also very substantive. Because of this requirement, a large number of people living in Estonia cannot basically go to work at the Ministry of Finance, as this language level cannot be achieved. This also has a significant impact on the application of the principle of equal treatment in Estonia. But I'm going to expand my question a little bit. According to the same decree of the Government of the Republic, the requirement for language proficiency is based on the nature of the work and the situation in which the language is used, which is reasonable. If you look at your job instructions, you have a language requirement for C2 levels, for example, both for ministerial support and for the Minister's driver. So essentially, regardless of whether it's a manager or a support staff, the language level is C2. What is your specific procedure in the ministry, how the language is assessed, and how has it happened that language requirements are essentially the same for very different work-specifics? Is that normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U71	Thank you. If I could, I'd like to read the answer to the previous question. I didn't call it a technical question. I said it was a secondary requirement for some competitions. It's not the first thing I'd look at. I am certainly not the one who is involved in drawing up these documents. This is still the level of Chancellor and Deputy Chancellor and, of course, Human Resources. That's what I said. I didn't know about the C2 requirement. I'll take a look at it, I'll make sure it's very good that you guys talked about it. But don't ask the same thing for the third time or blame me.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U72	Thank you. Now two issues registered on the spot. Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U73	Thank you. Just for the background. Many members of the Riigikogu and maybe also members of the government just received a letter from a foreigner living and working in Estonia, where the same question had been raised. He wants to prove that he speaks Estonian at C2, which is the highest possible level, but he cannot do it in any way in Estonia because there is no test. The reason for not conducting the examination has so far been that it is not possible to achieve this level of language proficiency anywhere, in short, there is no requirement for such an examination. Similarly, some people in the diplomatic service and some linguists have asked me why not really demand a C2 level, for example, because the ability and ability to acquire languages is one of the hallmarks of human ability. If a person wants to get as high a position as possible, he has to prove himself capable. As a member of your government, would you support the introduction of the C2 level requirement in general and the organisation of the Innove exams?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U74	Dear colleague, let's try and make it through in one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U75	Thank you. I feel like a real language person, actually I do when I sign letters. It's kind of a shame I have to chew on the stars, but people have different senses of tongue. Once again, I don't know what to say about this C2 level right now, but it really is that language skills very often also show the quality of thinking and argument and the attitude to their work. So the high language requirements, I think, are a sad inevitable. Whether this level is C1, or indeed C2, I really didn't know about it, I can't answer right now. But I'm demanding in this area. I cannot allow great concessions to come when, in practical work, there are actually problems with poor written expression in many ministries, not in the Ministry of Finance anymore, I say. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U76	Thank you very much. Let us stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U77	We still have time, so Heimar Lenk can also ask a question to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U78	Mr. Prime Minister! At present, banks pay a non-existent percentage of deposits, yet people are obliged to keep their salaries and pensions in commercial banks. On this basis, foreign banks make a huge profit, EUR 350 million according to the statistics for the previous year. The banks basically take this profit out of Estonia. Do you, as Prime Minister, not think that the situation is abnormal, especially if banks do not pay normal interest to savers? Furthermore, from the new year, Swedbank and SEB want to set a tariff for a simple person when paying their own money into a bank and withdrawing their own money from a bank.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U79	Thank you. Managing money circulation requires resources, and organising money circulation is certainly not free of charge. The high profits of these banks are such that they are shrinking lately, and I am pleased that our banks managed independently in the years of the crisis without the Estonian state having to spend taxpayers' money to keep commercial banks alive. There were only eight countries in the European Union, including Estonia, where taxpayers' money was not to be used to save commercial banks. I usually don't listen to a free microphone in the Riigikogu from Monday, but since Rein Lang was performing and I had a TV open, I also saw your performance. I was surprised by your statement that someone is planning to tax the deposits at 10% of the tax, according to you, on the proposal of the IMF. I was curious, and I looked up the specific article you referred to in your speech. I have this article with me now printed and here I read: 'Eine solche Vermögens-steuer wird ausdrücklich nicht emptfohlen. " Perhaps under no circumstances would such a tax on property be categorically recommended. And yet you were able to make such news that someone would suggest such a tax on property. It is not in the IMF, it is certainly not a topic of discussion in Estonia gets nothing like this! I don't want to panic unless there's any reason for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U80	Thank you very much. Let's finish Question Time. Many thanks to all ministers and the Prime Minister. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U81	Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister and ministers! Good guests! We will begin the 10th working week session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U82	President of the Republic s. a By Decision No 335 of 4 December 2005, Urve Tiidus was appointed Minister of Culture. Let's hear the oath of Minister of Culture Urve Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U83	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U84	Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In accordance with § 95 (2) of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, we withdraw the cultural inquiry submitted on 19 November, Rein Langile SA Cultural newsletter on the violation of the Statutes. The facts that we asked about in the inquiry have become clear thanks to the good work of the press. I would also like to congratulate the Minister for Culture, Urve Tiidu, on behalf of our group, and sincerely congratulate the Reform Party on its good choice. We would like to allow the new Minister of Culture at least a hundred days of working peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U86	The Board of the Riigikogu takes note of this. Let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure initiated on 2 December and related amendments to other laws, the commission of which is the Committee on Legal Affairs; in the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the Family Act initiated on 2 December and related amendments to other laws, the commission of which is the Committee on Legal Affairs; in the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the Commercial Code initiated on 2 December and related amendments to other laws, the commission of which is the Committee on Legal Affairs; in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Act on identity documents, the State Fees Act and the State Border Law, initiated on 2 December, of which the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, initiated on 2 December, of which the commission is the Social Affairs Committee; the Government of the Republic. a Draft Law on Maritime Labour, initiated on 2 December, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs, of the Government of the Republic. A draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Cultural policy fundamentals until 2020' submitted on 2 December, the commission of which is the Committee on Culture; in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. a Draft Act amending § 32 of the State Budget Act, initiated on 2 December, of which the commission is the Finance Committee; of the Social Democratic Party faction. a Draft Act amending § 4 of the Income Tax Act, initiated on 2 December, of which the commission is the Committee on Finance. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts, the Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas and the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 79 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 22. Let's get to the agenda. First of all, I have to clarify the agenda. Firstly, today we will continue with yesterday's agenda. Agenda No 8 of yesterday's sitting, which is the first reading of Draft 540 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's "Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control," submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group, has been transferred to the agenda of today's sitting as item No 1. Secondly, on today's agenda item No 2, the third reading of the draft law amending the 2013 State Budget Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, 514 will be presented on behalf of the commission by Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Thirdly, on today's agenda item 6, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the state fee law and traffic law initiated by the Government of the Republic, 496 will be presented on behalf of the commission by Toomas Tõniste, Member of the Economic Commission, in place of member of the Economic Commission, Tõnis Palts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U87	Today's first item is the first reading of Draft 540 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu Neeme Suur! Ladies and gentlemen, please keep it down.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U88	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to introduce you to the draft decision of the Riigikogu 540. The submission of the bill is due to the fact that this year on 11 November the mandate of the member Kajar Lember of the Riigikogu ended in connection with his resignation. The Social Democratic Party Group would like to appoint Mr Jüri Morozov as member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control in place of Kajar Lember. Urve Palo continues as an alternate member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U89	Any questions? There are no questions. Thank you very much. Now I would like to ask for a co-report by Deniss Borodichi, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this draft at its regular meeting on 19 November and first decided to propose that it be discussed in plenary on 3 December, today; secondly, to propose that the first reading be closed; and thirdly, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U91	Thank you very much. Any questions? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 540. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of 540 amendments. 18 December at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U92	Our second item today is the third reading of the draft law amending the 2013 State Budget Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of the draft law amending the 2013 State Budget Act, which bears the number 514. This is a third reading. The Committee on Finance discussed this draft before the third reading at its meeting on 18 November and 2 December. The Government of the Republic may initiate a draft law amending the State Budget Act two months before the end of the financial year, without changing the total cost of changing the state budget. This draft amends as resources should be used more efficiently to achieve the intended objectives. No proposals were received from the political groups, committees or members of the Riigikogu by the deadline of 27 November at 5 p.m. The Commission only made linguistic and technical corrections to the third reading text. All the decisions taken by the Commission were consensual. We proposed that the draft be put on the agenda on Wednesday, 4 December, the third reading be closed and put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U94	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! As a matter of principle, this bill has made only technical changes. But changing the state budget is always the case that if it does not make life better, the opposition cannot support it. This bill does not give Estonia, the people of Estonia, nothing as a law. So the Estonian Centre Party Group will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U96	Thank you. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. No amendments were received. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 514. We are preparing for the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the 2013 State Budget Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 514. Please take a stand and vote. 63 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 13 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U97	Today's third item is the second reading of the draft law amending the obligation to leave and refusal of entry law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the European Union citizens' law. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft 444 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 3 June this year. No formal proposals were received by the deadline of 18 June for the first reading and 19 August for the amendments. During the follow-up work, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, made a total of 12 additional amendments. For their discussion, we invited Ele Russaku, the advisor of the Migration and Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, with whom we discussed the problems and prepared amendments. The aim of the draft is to harmonise the regulation of the obligation to leave and the "return" directive within the European Union, taking into account the comments and recommendations made by the European Commission to Estonia. It is understandable that issues of this kind should be regulated on a uniform basis across the EU. The request is to amend and supplement the legal provisions relating to the return, expulsion, detention and application of an illegally staying third-country national. The wording of the obligation to leave and the law on refusal of entry must not give rise to interpretation difficulties or require a foreigner to have a thorough knowledge of the various legislations. The draft has been prepared in close cooperation with the European Commission. In doing so, account has been taken of the problems encountered in practice as well as the comments made by the Chancellor of Justice. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also went to the Expulsion Centre to make sure that we had the situation on the ground. The directive on which the amendments were based was transposed into Estonian law in 2010, but there have been some difficulties and shortcomings in practice over time. To overcome them, as I said, the bill has been drafted. As I have pointed out, there are 12 amendments in total. These are different provisions, and I will present them very briefly to you. The first amendment concerns the concept of the risk of escape and defines in more detail the situation in which it might be a risk of escape. The second amendment proposes that an alien who has been ordered to leave may apply for the revocation of an entry ban if he or she has complied with that precept. The relevant paragraph governs the way in which all of this is carried out. The third and fourth amendments concern the obligation for an unaccompanied minor to leave. Various mitigation measures have been proposed and based on the assumption that all activities should be based on the interests of the child. The Police and Border Guard Board has been given the obligation to search for a minor's escort, a parent abroad, a guardian or a representative of a reception facility. There shall be no time limit for the fulfilment of such an obligation to leave. This is left undefined because the situation may make the search take a long time. The fifth proposal provides for a wide range of measures in case an illegally staying alien has no money to pay for accommodation. Provision shall be made for the possibility of the state paying for accommodation of an alien in such a situation. This concerns, in particular, families with children, victims of human trafficking and other particularly vulnerable people. The sixth, seventh and eighth proposals concern the conditions and grounds for detention of an alien. The new rule is that an alien can only be detained for 48 hours at the premises of the Police and Border Guard Board. The administrative court must then be requested to authorise detention, and the administrative court will decide whether or not the detention may continue, whether or not it is justified. If six months of detention are full and the person still does not have the documents necessary for his or her return, he or she must be released under certain conditions and, after 18 months, the person must be released definitively. Amendment 9 concerns the application of containment measures. The aim is to make this provision as clear as possible, the management measures for the transport of detainees must be precisely regulated and unambiguous. More specifically, we were talking about the use of handcuffs. We found that they were not necessary in the event of a common threat, and the police officer would use them when he felt an immediate real threat to someone's life, health, or property. Amendment 10 is of a technical nature. Amendments 11 and 12 are based on the Chancellor of Justice's comment that the Constitution is better aligned with that expressed in the law, which is strictly prohibited. Anything that is not forbidden would be permitted. The current regulation is the opposite. Proposal No 11 is an amendment of a technical nature, No 12 is that the law provides for a letter which is prohibited in the detention centre. Anything else is allowed. The list of prohibited items and substances is given exhaustively. Finally, as the amendments also require IT developments and applications, the deadline for the entry into force of the Act is 1 October 2014. The Commission made a consensual proposal to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session on 4 December, today, and to adopt the draft as a law when the first reading is closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U99	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much. I am simply clarifying, for the sake of the verbatim, that this is, however, the end of second reading and the proposal to refer the draft to third reading. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. All 12 amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Amendment 1 has been fully taken into account by the lead committee, no 2 has been fully accounted for, N° 3 getting it all, N° 4 get it all, N° 5 get it all, N° 6 get it all, N° 7 get it all, N° 8 get it all, N° 9 get it all, N° 10 get it all, N° 11 get it all, N° 12 get it all. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 444. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U100	Today's fourth item is the second reading of the Act amending the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities and other Acts, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the Chair of the Economic Commission Chair, Kaja Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the second reading of the draft law amending the general part of the Code of Economic Activities and other laws on 21 November. The amendments made to this draft are all of a technical nature and concern that we are postponing the entry into force of the Act on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities. The point is that since it is a number of references to other laws, the entry into force of these amendments must also be postponed. In the original draft, some of the legislative references were inside and some were not; now, thanks to the amendments, all these issues should be resolved. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to propose the end of the second reading to the Assembly and, once it has been completed, to send the draft to the third reading on 5 December 2013 and then to hold a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U102	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Kaja Kallas. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The Committee on Economic Affairs has tabled nine amendments, and we will review them. Number 1, the proposal of the commission is to take full account. Number 2, the proposal of the commission is to take full account. Number 3, the proposal is to take full account. Number 4, the proposal is to take full account. Number 5, the proposal is to take full account. Number 6, the proposal is to take full account. Number 7, the proposal is to take full account. Number 8, the proposal is to take full account. Number 9, the proposal is to take full account. The commission's proposal was to conclude the second reading of draft 504. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U103	Our fifth item on the agenda is the second reading of the draft law amending the Foundations of the Property Reform Act of the Republic of Estonia initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the related amendment of other laws. I would like to present the Chair of the Economic Commission Member Jaan Apple Tree.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U104	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft took place on 6 November this year. No proposals were submitted by the deadline of 13 November. In cooperation with the initiator and the language editor, three legislative proposals were made to improve the text. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft in preparation for a second reading at its meeting on 21 November, which was attended by a representative of the Ministry of Finance, who gave an overview of the content of the amendments. I will now present these three amendments very briefly to you. Amendment 1 consists of a technical amendment to the regulation adding the word 'change' to the title of the draft. Second proposal: Paragraph 17 (10) of the Property Reform Foundation Act replaces the words'may... do' with 'do'. The amendment is necessary because the county governor is obliged to initiate a monitoring procedure in the event of a finding of unlawfulness or failure to give an administrative decision. In doing so, the mayor of the land will continue to have the normal discretion to decide whether to initiate the operation during the administrative procedure. The word 'legislative provision' is replaced by the more appropriate term 'legislative act'. Third amendment: the wording of § 85 33 of the Government Act contained in § 3 of the bill needs to be amended. It must be clear that distinctions can only be made with regard to the time limit referred to in paragraph 3 and not with regard to the other time limits contained in the provision. The amendment replaces the term'special norms' with'specificities', which are more precise and are also used throughout the Act of the Government of the Republic. All three proposals were supported by the Commission at its meeting. The initiator's representative who participated in the meeting also agreed with them. What were the Commission's decisions? Put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session. a by 4 December, and proposing the completion of the second reading; if the second reading is completed, it will be referred to the third reading by 5 December, with a proposal for the final vote on the draft. I must also mention that all these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U105	Thank you very much. You have questions. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U106	Thank you. Good colleague! With this bill, it seems very simple. But if you read it thoroughly, we can see that at the end it is mentioned, let's say, a regulation amending the regulations, which essentially amends Article 17 (5) of the ORAS as well as Article 17 (5) of the Oras. Did you talk about it in the committee? Did you find out what was really behind this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U107	As I said, the Commission has confined itself to discussing these three amendments. If I am not deceived by memory, neither the Minister nor other ministerial officials were asked about this regulation in the Commission before sending the draft to first reading. So there was no subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U108	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U109	Thank you. Good colleague! After my first reading, I read that the Cities Union is against this bill. Could you give a little reason why the Cities Union is taking such a stand?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U110	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U111	I have not seen the position of the Cities Union. I can guess what you're looking at right now and what you're asking about. According to all assumptions, this concerns draft regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance. This whole issue, the return of property to foreign residents, was never addressed in the Commission. I can quite confirm that such an annex was not included in the annexes to the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U112	We read that the lawyers of the Cities Association have carried out a very critical analysis of this regulation. In fact, this amendment gives German migrants and those who have been compensated for their property there the opportunity to recover the property if they pay back the compensation they once had received. It's a huge surprise! We believe that this is an unconstitutional situation, but I understand that you did not bring it up in the Commission. But you and I analyzed whether such a scheme could be hidden there?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U113	It's very difficult for me to say if there's such a scheme. The issue also arose in our group at the beginning of this week, and we discussed these issues among ourselves this morning. It may be best to ask for information on the whole package of regulations from the Ministry of Finance. Let them give an accurate overview of why these regulations have been included in this draft and also of the fact that when the Supreme Court's decision on the subject was made in 2006, why it was only now, in December 2013, that it was lifted up.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U114	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U115	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I know the tenants' association has also shown strong opposition to this bill. Since this draft is not urgent, could the Committee on Economic Affairs not consider working with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and asking for their opinion on constitutional compatibility? This bill is really not urgent. Maybe take some time off and discuss it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U116	Thank you. As a Commission rapporteur, I can now tell you what the Commission discussed before the second reading and what position it took. But the fate of this bill will be in the hands of all of us in this hall in about a quarter of an hour.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U117	Thank you. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U118	Thank you. Good waitress! Am I right to understand that the draft that we are currently discussing does not create new rights and does not remove rights; the dispute is about this regulation? Therefore, the complaints against this draft are not justified. Or do I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U119	I don't think you get it wrong. On Monday we discussed this issue in our group, and yesterday morning I asked the representative of the Ministry of Finance to come back to this house. I asked him directly whether draft 480 had anything to do with the issue of migrants, and he assured me that he did not. He spoke exactly the same story that had been said before the first reading in the Commission: the draft concerns only four areas that are wanted to be regulated. We all know what these four areas are.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U120	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U121	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, If the Ministry of Finance has sent a regulation to the coordination circle, the explanatory memorandum clearly states that it relates to the draft that we are debating today, then I ask: why has the Commission not discussed this regulation in its sittings? Isn't this the Commission's cull?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U122	I do not dare to confirm that this Commission is a failure. For the simple reason that I personally have not seen the regulation on this subject being included in the 480 draft. I was familiar with the text of this regulation on Monday this week when I read the letter from the Minister of Finance to Mr Kisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U123	Thank you. Please, Kaja Kallas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U124	Thank you. The competence of the Riigikogu is currently primarily concerned with the bill, i.e. the law. We are legislative power, and the Government of the Republic will issue regulations on the basis of this law as well. We can certainly pay attention to errors in this regulation if they are to be, but we cannot influence the text of the regulation. It's still a government decree. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U125	I think it is very easy to comment on this: the government must under no circumstances contradict any legislative act with its regulations. It is the duty of the Riigikogu to ensure that the regulations that come out of Stenbock's house do not conflict with the law. That's our mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U126	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Jaan Apple Tree! I'm opening negotiations. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U127	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, If the Riigikogu desktop has yet another amendment to the Oras Act, i.e. the basis of property reform, then I always have a hot talk under my heart. What else can I do, all the bad things are done?! We remember that at one time national radical forces, together with external Estonians, started restoring legal continuity on the basis of restitution. In reality, it turned out to be a return to the assets created in the 1990's. The people who lived in these houses had to leave their homes without having been given a new dwelling. Around 40 Oras changes over many years have led to many tragic and endless tears. Several tens of thousands of people have been deprived of their right to a home. And all this has not been committed by foreign power and foreign forces, but by our own Estonian state. When we look at the bill that's on our table today and that's also about ORAS, it seems like a perfectly normal bill. The time and volume limits for the distributions related to the compensation of assets will be reduced, the money from the privatisation of the entire land will be transferred to the reserve fund of the property reform, etc. instead of the stabilisation reserve. But the devil is often in detail. This time, the insidious plan is hidden in the draft amendment of the Government of the Republic Regulation No 216 of 13 July 1993, which was sent to the coordination circle at the end of October, including the Cities Association. The draft regulation includes, inter alia, an amendment to be made for the return of assets to those who have moved to Germany and those who have received compensation in Germany. Until now, such regulation was excluded pursuant to § 17 (5) of the ORAS. There is now a possibility that people who have relocated to Germany and who have already received compensation for their property there may still have their property returned under the Estonian Property Reform Foundation Act if they pay back the compensation received in Germany. The Association of Estonian Cities considers that the introduction of special rules enabling applicants who have already received compensation for their property from the Federal Republic of Germany by means of this regulation alters the regulation of § 17 (5) of the ORAS and therefore it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. This is a decree amending the law, which is excluded in the Republic of Estonia by virtue of the principle of separation of powers according to the Constitution. The Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court has repeatedly emphasised that according to the Constitution, the executive power is empowered to issue only regulations specifying the law and not to change their content. Once again, Paragraph 17 (5) of the ORAS provides that a person who is a legitimate subject of a property reform shall not be entitled to claim the return or compensation of unlawfully disposed assets in respect of assets which have already been returned or compensated. The Association of Estonian Cities and the City Government also consider it important to note that neither ORAS nor any other legal provision provides that the property can be returned to persons if they pay back compensation for the same property. The Tallinn Circuit Court has taken the view in several administrative cases that § 17 (5) of the ORAS does not allow for the return of the property, regardless of whether the compensation previously received has been repaid to the Federal Republic of Germany or not. Now, at the final stage of the property reform process, when most of the applications for the return of property have been resolved, this change is to be made. In this way, the rights of all those who have been deprived of the opportunity to recover property as a result of compensation received before the introduction of the ORAS are violated. However, in particular, this change will cause injustice to those affected by mass repression, who have been paid symbolic compensation for this asset, and it will exclude the right to recover the property. What does it mean, however, to repay this compensation? Is the amount of compensation paid at the time in the currency at that time even comparable to the amount that the real estate currently pays? Of course not. Today, in Germany, it means trivial candy money, but according to the idea of the authors of the bill, it provides millions of euros of real estate in the city centre of Tallinn. I don't think anyone can predict the consequences of the changes that are being made by stealth. Do those people who have been in court for 20 years and who have already been subject to judicial decisions start all over again? I will ask you again where these ideas have come from. We remember all kinds of corrections to the ORAS, such as Jaanus Betlem's aunt and other names. We remember repeated expansions of the circle of early renegade. It is in whose interest that the property belonging to the people of Estonia is not intended to be returned to in Germany and, in this case, in breach of the Constitution? What's in it for you? To whom and for what do the constituency owe? I propose that the second reading be interrupted so that we can once again analyse the link between the draft regulation and the consequences of the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U128	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. All amendments are proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Amendment 1, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 2, this too, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 3, as well as fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The Board of the Riigikogu has received the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the foundation of the property reform of the Republic of Estonia and the related amendment of other laws. We have to vote on this. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the foundation of the property reform of the Republic of Estonia and the related amendment of other laws. Please take a stand and vote. 20 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 45 votes against and one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Bill 480, second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U129	Our sixth item today is the second reading of the draft law amending the State Tax Act and the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Tõniste, Member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, would like to present a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, By the deadline for submitting amendments to the Economic Commission, i.e. 15 November, the Group of the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu tabled 50 amendments; the representative of the initiator of the draft submitted one proposal to the Commission for consideration. The Commission discussed the amendments at its meeting on 21 November and 2 December. Ain Tatter, Head of Road and Railway Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Sander Salmu, Head of Transport and Traffic Services of the same department, were also present as representatives of the initiator of the bill. The Commission supported all the proposals made by the lead committee. The proposals of the Social Democratic Party Group were not supported and were not taken into account. The proposals made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party can be divided into three groups for their purpose: the current state fees for the activities of the Public Road Administration, the possibility provided for in the draft to pay less state fees for the use of e-services and the reduction of the state fee for the registration of trailers. At the Commission meeting held on 21 November, it was decided to develop and add to the list of amendments compromise proposals to reduce the state fee for the registration of trailers. The compromise proposals on the reduction of the state fee for the registration of trailers with a maximum mass of not more than 3500 kg are listed in the amendments under numbers 2, 8, 10 and 19. The compromise proposal provides for a state fee of EUR 63 for the registration of a trailer. If the statistics for the last four years are taken into account, the revenue for vehicle registration is projected to decrease by EUR 271530 due to the introduction of a separate national tax rate for the trailer. However, the total revenue from the increase in the state fee should be EUR 281107 if the state fee for the registration of vehicles increases by EUR 1 to EUR 2. The consensus decided to terminate the second reading and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be sent to the third reading by 5 December 2013 and then a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U131	Thank you very much. Please, Priit Tobal, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U132	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! In general, the principle is that state fees are cost-based. Is this bill intended to increase state fees because costs have increased? Or is there another reason? I am not talking about operations that are being carried out using an e-service right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U133	In accordance with the State Fees Act, the rate of state fees may also not be set according to the principle of cost. This time, the increase in fees has been attributed to the fact that the negative effects of road transport, including environmental damage, have increased from year to year. The related costs shall be borne directly by the State budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U134	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U135	Thank you. Dear waitress, You have read very well the benefits and costs of the bill. The reduction of the trailer fee to EUR 63 leaves slightly more than EUR 271000 in the budget. In the interest of the truth, it has to be said that the vehicle registration fee currently amounts to EUR 121 and is increasing to EUR 128. This increase is therefore EUR 7. However, given that there is also an increase in the fee for operations relating to the issuing of the registration mark, a total of EUR 281000 is expected to be collected. The difference is EUR 10000. What will be done with this EUR 10000?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U136	That is not a properly addressed question. I really don't know what to do with it. But MKM will find a place to put it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U137	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U138	Thank you. I'll continue with my last question. You said that state fees could also be imposed on the basis of some other principles, not just the cost-based principle, and that there was environmental pollution and other damage caused by road transport. Have specific calculations been made that will result in such an increase in fees and, if so, can we get acquainted with them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U139	We were not given a specific account of whether the fees would increase by 5, 6 or 10%. It was just found that we didn't have any car or luxury taxes, but the costs have to be covered. The 5% increase in fees, while e-services fees are reduced by nearly 20%, seemed to be a fair compromise.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U140	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U141	First of all, I think the Commission could have considered, perhaps it is possible to take part in the ninth amendment. But as far as state fees are concerned, they should be cost-oriented. The arguments put forward by the Committee on Economic Affairs regarding the increase in fees indicate rather that there should be a car tax. Perhaps we are currently dealing with a tax on registration of cars. If that's the case, you should say it straight. What's to be ashamed of?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U142	Everyone thinks it's a tax he can feel more of it. In this case, it is a state fee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U143	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. 57 proposals have been received to amend the draft, and we will review them. Amendment 1, Committee on Economic Affairs, proposal by the lead committee to take full account; No 2, Committee on Economic Affairs, to take full account; No 3, Group of the Social Democratic Party, to be disregarded; No 4, Group of the Social Democratic Party, to be disregarded. Proposals No 5 to 7 are made by the Social Democratic Party Group: No 5, to be disregarded; No 6, to be disregarded, No 7, to be disregarded; Proposal No 8 of the Economic Commission, the Steering Committee has taken full account; No 9, the Social Democratic Party Group, to be disregarded; No 10 of the Economic Commission, to be fully taken into account. Amendments 11 to 18 are made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the proposal of the commission not to take them into account: No 11, not to take them into account; No 12, not to take them into account; No 13, not to take them into account; No 14, not to take them into account; No 15, not to take them into account; No 16, not to take them into account; No 17, not to take them into account; No 18, not to be taken into account. Number 19 is a proposal by the Economic Commission, the lead committee, to take full account. Amendments 20 to 55 are made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party: No 20, disregard; No 21, disregard; No 22, disregard; No 23, disregard; No 24; No 25, disregard; No 26, disregard; No 27, disregard; No 28, disregard; No 29, disregard; No 30, disregard; No 31, disregard; No 32; No 33, disregard; No 34, disregard; No 35; No 36, disregard; No 37, disregard; No 38, disregard; No 39; No 40, disregard; No 41, disregard; No 42; No 43, disregard; No 44, disregard; No 45, disregard; No 46, disregard; No 47, disregard; No 48, disregard, disregard; No 49, disregard; No 50; No 51, disregard; No 52, disregard; No 54, disregard; No 54, disregard; No 55, disregard; No 55, disregard. Number 56 is a proposal by the Economic Commission, a proposal by the Leading Commission to take full account of it; No 57 is also a proposal by the Economic Commission, a proposal by the Leading Commission to take full account of it. All amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U144	The next item, No 7, is the second reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a speech from Mr Remo Holsmer, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U145	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 25 September, with the first reading on 23 October. One proposal was tabled by the deadline for tabling amendments by 6 November, by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. This second proposal is included in the list of amendments and aims to increase the rate of tax-free income of a natural person from 2015 onwards over a period of three years. The Commission's discussion raised the question of how much this proposal would cost the country. There was no explanation for the amendments. The Social Democratic Party Group proposed the same content to the Riigikogu in the spring, on which the Government of the Republic gave its opinion. According to the Government, an increase in the tax-free income rate proposed in the draft would reduce the revenue from the state budget by 28 million euros from 2014, 60 million euros from 2015 and 95 million euros from 2016. At the meeting of the Commission, the representative of the initiator of the draft act explained that he did not support the amendment, but stated that the possibility of increasing the tax-free rate would be reconsidered in spring 2014, when the country's budget strategy for 2015-2018 was drawn up. The Committee on Finance decided not to take the proposal into account. The other two amendments, which are in positions 1 and 3, are proposed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The first proposal deletes the provisions relating to the taxation of the use of passenger cars. The Committee on Monetary Affairs received numerous opinions on this draft as well as on the draft amending the VAT Act 493. Consequently, on 7 November the Committee on Monetary Affairs held a public consultation aimed at considering the need to clarify and otherwise amend drafts. The meeting was attended by the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Association of Liising Associations, the Estonian Association of Accountants, the Estonian Association of Taxpayers, the NGO Association of Car Companies, the Estonian Association of Car Sales and Service Enterprises, the Service Economy Chamber, EVEA, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Merchants Association and the Auditor Assembly. That concludes the list. The views of the initiator were presented by the officials of the Ministry of Finance. The representatives of the Tax and Customs Board replied to questions relating to the possible implementation of the draft. Following this debate, the Committee on Monetary Affairs dealt with the draft twice more: on 12 and 21 November. On 12 November, the meeting discussed the possible impact on the state budget, excluding the part of drafts 492 and 493 relating to car taxation, and discussed the suitability of different sources of coverage. At its meeting on 21 November, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided, on a proposal from the Reform Party Group and members of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica, that the provisions on the taxation of the use of passenger cars should be deleted from the draft. The Committee on Monetary Affairs considered that this regulation needed more in-depth analysis. Amendment 3 is made by the Ministry of Finance and repeals paragraphs 60 and 61 27 and 28 of the Income Tax Act. They are essentially implementing provisions that have survived their time. They concern differences in the tax treatment of dividends and tax periods, for which there is currently no obligation to retain documents as well as the possibility of tax control. According to the tax authority, these provisions will no longer be used anyway. At the same time, taxpayers who, however, wish to exercise the rights provided for in those provisions and who are also able to demonstrate the existence of those rights will remain in place for a whole year, the provisions will be repealed on 1 January 2015. So much for the amendments received. The Committee on Finance decided at its meeting on 21 November to submit a draft for second reading by 4 December 2013 with a proposal to conclude the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U146	Thank you. There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Eiki Nestori, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U147	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, As you can see, everything is going very fast. It was only when, as a pleasant surprise, the Minister of Finance promised the Estonian people an increase in the tax-free minimum. Right now, we're halfway there. I am not talking about this additional tax exemption, which is very reasonable and which is probably all for. As once explained in the explanatory memorandum to the draft in question, due to the additional income tax exemption, the Estonian average pension should be exempt from income tax. It is reasonable that we achieve this objective. But one thing is going badly now: the logical and understandable desire to plan public spending in advance for longer than one year will lie in the air again. If we hope to increase the tax-free minimum from 2015 with the knowledge that perhaps in the spring of 2014, someone will say something about it, then we will probably deceive ourselves. I think disappointment can be exactly the same as this year. At the level of a member of the government, all people were allowed to increase the tax-free minimum, but it was canceled. I call on you to support our amendment, which will not burn the state budget for next year with any euro, but will give a clear signal to the government that the groups of the Riigikogu, as I understand it, will unanimously support an increase in the tax-free minimum. If the government comes up with even more suitable and better solutions in preparing the 2015 budget strategy, as some of the government's allies have promised, then it is very nice. We will probably also support the proposal to increase the tax-free minimum even more, as promised. Today, however, we could boldly vote in favour of our amendment, which would be a clear signal to the government that it should work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U148	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We are going to examine the 492 amendments to the draft. Three proposals have been received. The first is from the lead committee, the second from the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U149	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U150	Here's what we're gonna do. We will vote on this, but I would also like to put it in writing. Let's start preparing the voting procedure. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 14 votes against 43 and 1 abstention, the proposal was not supported. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. According to the representative of the lead committee, the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. The second reading of the draft is closed and the seventh item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U151	Let's move on to item eight. The first reading of the draft Act 523 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan, begins. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U152	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of double taxation agreements is to encourage investment between contractual partners, to prevent discriminatory taxation and to prevent tax evasion. All these tax agreements are based on the Standard Agreement of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The agreement between Estonia and Uzbekistan differs from the OECD Standard Agreement as follows: Firstly, if the dividend-paying company's shareholding in the company receiving the dividend is less than 25%, or if the dividend-payer is a natural person, the Estonian-Uzbekistan Agreement allows the source country to retain 10% of the gross dividend. In the standard contract, this rate is 15%. Secondly, no more than 5% of gross interest may be withheld from interest paid to a resident of another country. In the standard contract, this rate is 10%. In the case of a licence fee, the source country may respect 10% of the gross licence fee. A standard contract only grants the right to tax to the State of residence of the recipient of the licence fee. An undertaking shall have a permanent establishment in another country if it has been providing services there for at least six months. This is the last distinction. The agreement will provide certainty for investors and may create more favourable conditions for them than national law, but will not provide additional tax opportunities for countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U153	Thank you, Minister. Good colleagues, any questions? There are no questions. Peeter Laurson, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Monetary Commission discussed draft Act 523 on the ratification of the Treaty on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Prevention of Tax Avoidance by Income and Capital Taxes between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan at its meeting on 21 November. Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, gave an overview of the objectives of the draft. As it is generally a standard contract, the Commission did not raise any questions. The Finance Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft be stopped and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 3 p.m. on 6 December. These decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U155	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. Thank you! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft amendments to the draft proposal 523. a on 6 December, at 15 a.m. The first reading is closed and the eighth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U156	We will move on to the ninth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act 537 on the ratification of the Treaty on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Prevention of Tax Avoidance between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U157	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Double taxation agreements aim at encouraging investment between partners, preventing discriminatory taxation and preventing tax evasion. All relevant Estonian tax agreements are based on the OECD Standard Agreement. The most important differences between Estonia and Bahrain in the standard agreement are as follows: First, the right to tax the dividend and the proceeds of the debt claim remains with the State of residence of the recipient. In a standard contract, the right to tax the dividend and interest is divided between the State of residence and the State of the source of income. Another specific rule is the case where an undertaking develops a permanent establishment in connection with the exploration or production of crude oil or other natural hydrocarbon from the soil of that country. There is no such specific provision in the OECD Standard Agreement. Thirdly, in order for Estonia to be able to exercise the right to tax property income to the same extent as in the Income Tax Act, the concept of property is broader in the agreement with Bahrain than in the OECD Standard Agreement. All types of pensions are taxed in the country of residence. Under the OECD Standard Agreement, a State that pays that pension has the right to tax a civil servant's pension unless the person is resident and a citizen of another country. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U158	Good Minister, thank you, too. There are no questions. Peeter Laurson, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U159	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft Act 537 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain at its meeting on 21 November. Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, gave an overview of the objectives of the draft. As this is generally a standard agreement, from which the differences were also pointed out in the Commission, we did not raise any questions regarding the draft. The Finance Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft be completed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 3 p.m. on 6 December. These decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U160	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 537 amendments. a on 6 December, at 15 a.m. The first reading is closed and the ninth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U161	We will move on to the tenth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act 538 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand. It is a great honour to ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi for a speech chair in the Riigikogu! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U162	Here you go! Mr President, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. This agreement also aims to encourage investment, avoid discrimination in taxation and prevent tax evasion. This is also based on the OECD Standard Agreement. The text of the Estonian-Thailand Agreement was initialled as early as 2007, signed on 25 September 2012. The main differences compared to the standard contract are as follows: The highest permitted rate for taxation in the dividend source country is 10%, while the standard contract has withholding tax rates of 5% and 15%, depending on the holding. The source country has no right to tax interest paid to the Estonian Government, Eesti Pank, the local government or to a legal person wholly owned by the Estonian Government. Thirdly, according to the Estonian-Thailand Treaty, income earned by a person in teaching or doing research in another state cannot be taxed in that country for the first two years. The agreement does not provide additional tax opportunities for countries, but limits the existing tax rights established by national law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U163	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. Thank you, Minister. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Peeter Laurson, member of the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed draft Act 538 at its meeting on 21 November on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion. Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, gave an overview of the objectives of the draft. The agreement follows broadly the OECD Standard Agreement and no questions were raised in the context of the review of the proposed changes. However, I would point out that, on 28 November, the initiator provided a translation of the revised draft, which amended the order of the provisions, the breakdown of the text and the signs of the points. In Article 23, the order of the paragraphs has been changed: paragraphs 1 and 2 have changed from the original in English. In Article 2 (3) (b), the structure for the presentation of the text has been modified compared to the original, and more specifically the breakdown has been abandoned. Thirdly, the translation uses a different provision from the original: the lower-case Roman numerals are used for the points in lowercase letters. Such technical improvements have been made in the meantime. The Finance Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft be completed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 3 p.m. on 6 December. These decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-04_U165	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you! All political groups now have the opportunity to open negotiations. Do you have a wish? No, it's not. No negotiations will be opened. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 538 amendments. a on 6 December, at 15 a.m. The first reading is closed and the tenth item is also closed. Good fellows! Today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 3.28 p.m.
