ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and other members of the government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 44 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 57. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Let's get to the questions. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for us to be able to ask all the questions, I promise to put two questions on the ground for each of the main issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U2	The first is Mr Simson's question to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U3	Prime Minister! In the ongoing electoral campaign in Germany, Minister of Finance Wolfgang Schäuble confirmed that Greece needs at least one more package of assistance in the current situation. Your response last week came to us through the Reuters interview, where you confirmed that Estonia will definitely participate in Greece's third aid package. I think it was a very bold statement, especially because it is not known to the public how big this package is going to be. But as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I have a good opportunity to look into your knowledge. We have also been asked about this aid, and I have not been able to comment on such a firm promise. It is estimated that this package should be EUR 10 to 11 billion, but please tell us more about how much Estonia thinks it is ready and able to participate in the third aid package.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U4	Wolfgang Schäuble, Minister of Finance of the Federal Republic of Germany, is certainly a greater expert on Greek matters than I am, but he is also talking about a possible third package of Greek aid in a relatively uncertain way. He has made an expert opinion and certainly does not have any serious knowledge whether or not this package will come. No one can have this knowledge now, because another survey awaits Greece at the end of September. The planning of the new package could begin to be discussed at all from November onwards, when certain information can be relied upon. It should be said that the final date for financing the second package will be the end of January 2014. All this talk about the third Greek package is highly hypothetical. It is not known if this package will come at all, and if so, in what form. One possible solution could be some kind of extension of loan periods. This would mean that there is no need to allocate more money. Of course, it is important to know that not Estonia will start providing additional loans. We are still talking about the ESM and, in the past, the EFSF and the resources that our public has given up when joining the ESM. I've never been so pessimistic. I am convinced that the money we have invested in EFSF or ESM will be well kept there, and in the future these amounts will increase rather than decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U6	Prime Minister! You have stood out in the past with the swift promises made towards Europe, which have sometimes exceeded your competence. Just two years ago, you said that Estonia would support the early implementation of the ESM, although this had not yet been the subject of consultations in Estonia and had not yet been agreed here. For each promise, the consequences must be taken into account and I therefore ask this question: how much has the Estonian guarantee actually been implemented in the EFSF aid package?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U7	I beg you not to give me positions I never had! If I, too, made an expert opinion that the earlier implementation of the ESM you referred to would be rational and reasonable, then it is not necessary to convert it into an Estonian promise or a guarantee granted by Estonia immediately. It's not. Just as Mr Schäuble's expert opinion does not mean that Germany agrees or opposes. Contributing to a package still means very clear procedural decisions in Estonia, but the need for procedural decisions cannot be taken by any person, whether involved in the decision-making process or not, to take away the right to personal opinion. I am convinced that all Estonian politicians may have their own position, even before the decision-making body has made its position. In the case of aid to Greece, however, it has been agreed, as we know, with regard to the first package in which Estonia did not participate, that the total amount would be EUR 110 billion. I have now completed my answer, and I will continue with the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U9	Prime Minister! Indeed, you have not been able to answer the question of the extent to which Estonia's guaranteed obligations have gone into operation. So I'm going to ask you the exact same thing. The Greek Minister for Finance has publicly stated that Greece is not going to make any more cuts. Therefore, it would not be right to call the new package of aid a rescue package, but to call it an economic aid package until 2016, without new cut-off conditions. Can you understand this, your expert opinion that you published to Reuters came from the fear that the guarantees given by Estonia are in danger and can turn against us without the third package?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U10	Estonia's guarantees are not in jeopardy. I am convinced that both the EFSF aid to Greece and the ESM aid to Greece, as well as the IMF aid to Greece, where Estonian taxpayers' money has been indirectly used, have all been very calculated aid measures. Our money has been used wisely and efficiently. I've been talking about the IMF on several occasions before. We have never complained about our taxpayers' money helping out relatively few countries that are known to us through the International Monetary Fund in South America, Asia and Africa. I think that, compared to the IMF, we are much more familiar with the conditions for aid to the countries of the European Union. And since we are much more informed about this than we are using money through the IMF, our conviction in doing so could be much stronger than in those cases where we do not have too much knowledge to be convinced. So the money has been used for my purposes. Reforms are still being carried out, and in Greece, the index of economic confidence has been at the highest level since the crisis erupted. Exports are increasing and, for example, the tourism sector is projected to grow by around 10% this year. There is no need to assess Greece's development as a pessimist.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U11	Now two issues registered on the spot. First of all, Mr Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U12	Since I have been mostly active here in Tallinn lately, I cannot leave one thing unanswered. The Centre Party has always had a great deal of concern that if Estonia is helping someone, it means loss to Estonia itself and to everyone else. At the same time, an election campaign is being conducted in Tallinn in such a way that taxpayers' money is completely stolen under the 'Tallinn helps' label. This is for the benefit of one party, but so Tallinn's school teachers, kindergarten teachers and others are deprived of salary increases. The money's gone, the money's gone, but it doesn't look like the Centre Party's complaining about it. However, I ask this question: how much have the international aid packages, where Estonia has participated, cost the Estonian taxpayer?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U13	Thank you. There's no way we can work this out, but I haven't done the contraction. As we know, the decision of the European countries to give Greece the income that the European Central Bank has earned thanks to the rapid appreciation of Greek government bonds has excited us here too. When Estonia's participation in the ESM was decided, very many thought that the two billion euros to which Estonia participates in the ESM were lost money for us. It's tied to a black ribbon, and it's froed, and our taxpayer will never see that money again. When it suddenly became apparent that the European Central Bank has made a considerable profit on the Greek account and that part of this profit should fall on Estonia, somehow the same ones who had already given up this money wanted to hold on to the income earned with lost money with ten nails and not give up the interest earned for the benefit of the Greeks. So far, our knowledge of whether we've won anything from all of this, or what the risks associated with the loan are, can't be very big. As we know, any economic activity involves risks, but once again, in the case of ESM, EFSF and the International Monetary Fund, I am absolutely convinced that all risks have been carefully considered. And as the example of the IMF assures us, we will not lose money if we help the weakest, but win money.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U14	I would now like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U15	Mr Prime Minister! In fact, several countries and governments in the euro area have said that they are tired and do not want to support these aid packages anymore. This is also because public opinion is extremely negative. I don't think I'm gonna put words in your mouth, I'm gonna quote straight from what you said to Reuters. You said that fatigue packages are not a hot topic in our country. How do you know it's not a hot topic? People don't want to hear or see these packages.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U16	Yeah, that's what I said. That statement belongs to me, and I will stick to that statement. Fatigue from relief packages was a hot topic when we discussed Estonia's accession to the ESM. Then, in my opinion, a distorted view emerged that the money that Estonia gives to the ESM has been lost, that money we no longer see. Since in the end it was decided that Estonia would participate in the ESM, just as Estonia would participate in the International Monetary Fund, the momentum of the money was slowing down. Any rational person understands that when it comes to using the same ESM in Greece, it is not possible to lose the money that has already been lost once and has not been recovered in the meantime. We already gave two billion ESMs. I don't think it's lost money, it's making interest, but you think, and according to your public rhetoric, it's lost money. But how can we say we're losing the money we've already lost once again? Therefore, the question of aid packages is really no longer a hot topic in Estonia. I think that we could deal with the problems of other countries in a much more argumentary way, which would also allow us to organise our home affairs on the basis of much more extensive knowledge and better.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U18	The next question is from my colleague, Mr Anvelt, to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U19	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Like Mr Randpere, I am concerned about the forthcoming elections, and I am asking you about them. In many of your speeches, you have expressed the view that the fight against corruption is one of your priorities. From the beginning of April this year, there is a new anti-corruption law, one of which establishes responsibility for the corrupt use of the public instrument. It is about creating unequal advantages for an official, which may also be a politician, from the point of view of the public interest. Have the authorities operating in your area of government and dealing with misdemeanours covered by this provision started any proceedings in connection with the misleading advertisements of voters in the city photo and not only in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U20	Thank you very much for your question. I think it's a very constructive addition to the law and it's nice that it's valid from April 1st. For the purposes of this provision, the prelitigation officer is the police and, as far as I know, the police have begun to investigate one thing. I am absolutely sure that, especially just before the elections, there will be a thorough monitoring of whether there are any such offences. It is clear that the decision-maker can only be the police who are independent in the Republic of Estonia. They make their decisions according to the circumstances of the operation. It is not important for anyone to make an application or a complaint; the police can also initiate such a procedure themselves. It is also certainly appropriate for the Riigikogu Corruption Committee to collect explanations and expert reviews in certain cases that have been brought to the attention of the media. In particular, there has been a lot of talk about some of the hobbies taking place in Tallinn, which some voters understand on the one hand as election advertising, which is done for taxpayers' money, on the other hand as a possible offence within the meaning of the Anti-Corruption Act. For example, this case, which your committee will also consider here, is that an elder in a part of the city, imagine, invites people to join in with a big poster for taxpayers' money. Let's just get going! It's like we haven't been dating before, and now we're all just gonna be dating together. And this, imagine, amazingly 40 days before the elections or two months before the elections. I think that the assessments that will be made by the committee are certainly relevant, but there is also a point of reflection for the police. It is extremely welcome that there is a clear provision in the law from 1 April that clearly condemns such action.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U21	Please, Mr Anvelt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U22	Good minister! I was still a little confused about the specific position of your governing authorities on the possible violations that our committee is also investigating. I ask you, as the representative of the executive and politically responsible for the activities of the executive, whether you have taken an interest in the matter. Do you have any information on how a pre-trial judge treats these matters rather than a particular fact, but generally?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U23	Thank you for your question. It is clear that if one law has only been in force for six months, i.e. very little time, then the pre-trial judge who investigates a specific offence is still developing the practice. It would be a provision which has been in force for years and which has developed both the case law and the practice of the pre-trial procedure, it would be different. Right now, the police are just shaping their position. It is clear that no minister or Member can prescribe to the police, in which case the procedure should be initiated and in which case not. Our options are limited to the laws adopted by the Riigikogu. The Minister, however, can ensure that the police have sufficient resources to implement the law. I've done it, too. Over the past two years, the Office for Corruption Crimes has been set up by the police, the salaries of both good investigators and other specialists have been secured, as well as the necessary technical resources. So all the assumptions are made. Now the police have the big job. If, in implementing this particular provision, an out-of-court practitioner or court takes the view that the law needs to be clarified, we must do so. But yes, so far, one procedure has been initiated. It's in the middle of something. I have so much information about police activity today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U24	Please, Mr Anvelt, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U25	Thanks, but I'm still confused. You, good minister, claim that this provision could touch on certain situations, I stress once again, not only in Tallinn, but also more generally in Estonia. At the same time, your party partner mayor candidate claims that the use of a public instrument for political advertising in Estonia has not been criminalised. This is not considered an offence. What is your position as a politician, as a minister: is this anti-corruption law provision about political advertising for a public instrument or not? I'm asking for your personal position.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U26	Thank you for your question. I think I've already expressed my personal position. It is true that this is not a criminal offence, it is a misdemeanor. It provides for a fine of up to 300 fine units. There are also certain conditions under which an identifiable offence is committed. I think this is an extremely appropriate provision. We can certainly consider whether this act, i.e. buying an advantage for taxpayers' money, by taking advantage of the position of authority, should be regarded as a criminal offence. This is, of course, the subject of debate and Parliament's decision-making place. In my opinion, very serious questions have come first and foremost in the city of Tallinn. Its position of power is corruptly exploited to create unjustified advantages for itself for taxpayers' money. To this end, it is not the party's money, which all the major parties receive from the state budget, but it is also used for taxpayers' money. I think it's a serious problem, I'd even use the word'sickness'. This kind of shit is definitely judged by the voters. It would make sense for voters to signal to the public the corrupt phenomena we see here and there in Tallinn. A signal should be given when city authorities have acted corruptly when taxpayers' money has been misused, be it 'Tallinn helps' or under other slogans.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U27	We will continue with the issues registered on the ground. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U28	Minister of the Interior! My question concerns the use of public money in the campaign, namely by IRL and Reform Party politicians. We know that all the country elders' seats are manned either by the IRL or by the Reform Party politicians. One of them has left his seat in Lääne-Virumaa in connection with the scandal on the purchase of votes, and most of the county elders are running for election, especially on the IRL lists. County governments have become manned party offices. The bad thing about applying for land parents is that if they're elected to a city or municipality council, they're gonna lose their place if they continue to be a county governor. The conflict of interest is due to the fact that they have helped the city or rural municipality council of one of the parties using public money. If a representative of this party starts to fill an important place in the city government, the mayor, who should supervise, will not do so. And if another party should win, not the IRL or Reform Party, then the mayor can use his position politically. Should this problem be addressed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U29	Thank you for your question. The issue of rural elders has been very varied for decades. There are rural elders who have reached Parliament by running for election, also in the current composition, some of which have become mayor. For example, Toomas Kivimägi, who is currently the mayor of Pärnu, was the head of Pärnu County for years. There are examples of this from previous Parliamentary formations. I think that a person's desire to stand as a candidate in elections should not be questionable; it should be a right guaranteed for everyone. As far as the country's oversight function is concerned, I don't consider your speculation justified. After all, we can design very diverse schemes concerning the impartiality or partiality of one person or another, but the right of people to belong to a political party should rather be encouraged in a democratic country, not vice versa. Otherwise, the question will inevitably arise that if a person is politically active, but no political party or any other association belongs to whom he then represents. What kind of power does he represent? Does he represent only himself or some person whose position is roughly the same as his, but whose view of the weather is not clear? I think it is important for the electoral body to know what ideology one or another person represents, what its understanding of society is, and how it feels about supervisory functions, how it works. This is more about transparency, not about the opposite.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U30	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U31	Minister, you did not answer the question. When county elders apply, do they use public money in the pre-election period?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U32	Thank you for your question. The same question arises when other people are running for office today. Are they using public funds? It is easier to find an answer when the question is motivated by clear examples of the use of the position of power and taxpayers' money and thus the creation of an advantage compared to other candidates. I think these are pretty clear cases. At the same time, it must be admitted that there are certainly cases where we need to analyse all these three elements separately in order to understand whether this is a corrupt behaviour within the meaning of the Anti-Corruption Act. Finally, however, the behaviour of one person or another is decided by the taxpayer and the voter, who is in many respects the same person. The voter shows what kind of conduct he considers right and what kind he disapproves of. In many ways, this democratic society may be guided. In my opinion, the provision of the Anti-Corruption Act, which has been in force since 1 April, is absolutely appropriate. Indeed, it may seem that action by some force has been, over the years, completely without evaluation. Now Parliament has very clearly deplored and considered the behaviour that we have been dealing with here today to be an offence. In my opinion, this is the basis for giving the electorate an additional orientation to shape its position.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U33	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U34	Next is the question by my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U35	Mr Prime Minister! The latest economic forecast was revised significantly lower. Not 3.3%, but 1.5%, was offered for economic growth. Bank analysts have found that this is a pretty clear decline. This decline has been going on for two blocks in a row. Last time we had a quarterly fall in 2009. However, the 2014 growth forecast of the Ministry of Finance has not changed. We see every day that our closest neighbours, Finland and Sweden, are not doing very well either. What is the basis for such optimism in the Ministry of Finance and the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U36	It is true that this year's forecasts have been revised downwards by the Ministry of Finance. Indeed, 1.5% is offered for growth. But next year's forecast has not changed the Ministry of Finance, it is still 3.6%. The Ministry of Finance will base its forecasts on the same arguments as the commercial banks that you have referred to, which will see the prospects for next year within the same limits as the Ministry of Finance. When comparing commercial bank forecasts with those of the Ministry of Finance, it has to be said that the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance are among the most conservative in recent times. However, the economic climate in Europe as a whole has improved quite quickly, and much better than in the first half of this year is expected from the second half of the year. The Estonian economy has continued to grow year by year. This growth has not been as great as we hoped in the second quarter of only 1%, but it is the fourth largest in the second quarter of the European Union, after Latvia, Lithuania and the United Kingdom. In the other 24 EU countries, economic growth has been much more modest or with a negative sign. The revenue of the state budget, however, is not only dependent on economic growth. They are also projected on the basis of other parameters, such as relatively rapid employment growth. In Estonia, unemployment has fallen most rapidly in the European Union over the last two and a half years. Our employment has increased and it has also significantly increased our tax revenues.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U37	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U38	If next year really goes so well that we have an economic growth of 3.6%, the question arises as to why there is still no desire to reduce unemployment insurance contributions, even though the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund made such a proposal yesterday. The Minister for Social Affairs, who should stand on the side of the people, opposed this and stressed that we must take into account the risk scenario. You have now confirmed that employment is constantly increasing and that the unemployed are becoming less and less. Why do we have to put so much money in the unemployment fund? It is known that even if we had unemployment growing as high as it was in peak times, it would not be worth the money. Why are we still not reducing this tax? Do you collect hidden income tax in such a way as to reduce the overall deficit?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U39	Oh, Mrs. Tuus-Laul, I wish I had your concern that somehow I couldn't spend the money! I'd love to have the same problems as you! I'm very familiar with what you're saying. The same was said here in the Riigikogu, and the media spoke about the Confederation of Employers and the Confederation of Trade Unions. Everyone assured me that the unemployment fund is running over money, that there is nowhere else to put it, that it will never be spent. The pressure was great, and what did the bad government decide? The bad government decided that, as you say, we will cut the total rate of unemployment insurance from 1.5% to 0.9%. Although reserves had been collected, Lehman Brothers went bankrupt and unemployment started to rise rapidly. And then what did we do? We increased the unemployment insurance rate from 0.9% to 4.2%. Was that a reasonable decision? In this particular situation, yes, it was a very sensible decision. More broadly, however, in good times, the decision was unreasonable not to collect enough unemployment benefit into the unemployment fund and to lower the rate of payment. In this broader context, it was very unreasonable to increase the tax burden in times of crisis and thus to further cool the economy. I am pretty sure that people who are now calling for a rapid reduction in the unemployment contribution rate are the first to blame the government for making a very bad decision when the crisis comes again, I hope that it will not come.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U40	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U41	I think that in that case, you do not have the point of pretending as if the decision of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund would mean anything to you. In fact, you do not mean doing what the government wants, not what the Council thinks is right. If we have a good economic growth next year, and you always say that we have very good finances and that everything is good, I ask where this growth is going. Does inflation eat it? Why is this growth not reflected in people's livelihoods? Why is this not reflected in the improvement in quality of life? Why is this not reflected in the higher standard of living? We know that the purchasing power of our people is the worst in the Baltics. Where does this growth go?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U42	He's not going anywhere. I am quite convinced that you, Mrs Tuus-Song, too, will be part of this economic growth next year. Your income will certainly increase, and this is an unmistakable process. It's increasing! Next year, pensions should rise by 5.8% according to our budgetary plan, and this is quite a significant increase in income for pensioners. Under the current agreements, the tax-free income rate for pensioners should also increase. The additional tax-free rate is expected to increase from EUR 192 to EUR 210, with a total tax-free minimum of EUR 144 to EUR 354. The average pension should also be EUR 354 and this means that the average pension for the new year will remain exempt from income tax. We also intend to increase the salaries of people working in the public sector next year. This means that teachers in particular next year, as well as cultural workers, can count on a slightly higher wage increase. Wage increases will be 5.1% next year according to our current plans. As we know, wages in the private sector increased considerably in the second quarter and the average wage increase in Estonia in the second quarter was 8.5%. And with an increase of 8.5%, no one can say very seriously that economic growth does not reach every person. It's coming!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U43	Now, the matter registered on the spot. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U44	Good Prime Minister! I understand what you're saying, we're doing well. So how do you comment on what's happening at our prices? The increase in food prices was 4.5% in the last quarter, or significantly higher than in Latvia and Lithuania and on average in Europe. Is the price increase in Estonia also an indicator of our economic success?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U45	Yes, that 4.5% is a rise in food prices, and that does not satisfy us. But we know that there is no way for the government to influence the rise in food prices in any way. We do not want the head of the government to start opening butter warehouses somewhere again and to have regulated prices. We remember well how regulated and controlled low prices led to the merchandise from stores. We certainly don't need that time back. August inflation was 2.9% from my memory. And 2.9% are already entirely within the limits that inflation and price stability levels should remain in the future. As we know, zero inflation is very bad. In many European countries, inflation is below 2% and is a disincentive to economic development. The aim of the European Central Bank is to maintain price stability at 2% levels: prices are expected to rise by 2% per year, to boost the economy sufficiently and at the same time not to eat the savings of the population. If inflation is below this level, it is not good for the economy. In fast-converging countries, in those countries where wages are rising relatively faster than the average level in the European Union, it is also inevitable that prices will rise faster. Therefore, this 3% inflation in our country is not something that should be strongly cursed and afraid of. Inevitably, as long as wages in Estonia are not at the best in Europe, there is no Finnish level, we will have both wages and prices to rise faster than they are in Finland, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U46	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U47	The next question is also for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U48	Prime Minister! Last summer, the reform of children's benefits, which was shouted out by the Reform Party, promised very many families that they would overcome poverty. The need-based family allowance had to reach more than 30361 families. At present, there are around 3000 families receiving needs-based family support, with a number of 2455 in July and an increase of just over 500 in August. What is the reason for this poor outcome? Who should take the political responsibility that this reform has not actually been implemented, that the money has not reached the families?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U49	First of all, I will correct the figures you have submitted for both July and August. According to my data, there were need-based family support recipients in July 2921 and in August 3537. This is additional support for families that are hardest to cope with economically. Certainly, in the initial phase of this reform, not all the people who have the basis to apply for this support are yet aware that they can ask for such help. However, I am pretty sure that the social workers in local governments will quickly promote this possibility of additional support, and that there will probably soon be considerably more applicants than there are now. We have come to the conclusion on several occasions that, for example, income support is still very uneven across Estonia, and this is not so much due to differences in people's incomes as to the activity of social workers. In places where social workers do their job better, there are considerably more beneficiaries of income support than in municipalities where the level of social work is not so good. It is known that per capita income support is provided by local governments compared to about a thousand times the difference. We do not think that average coping in Estonian municipalities could vary either a hundred or a thousand times. Even ten times is completely out of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U50	Please, Mr Pikhof, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U51	Prime Minister! You mentioned the number of applicants, not the beneficiaries, when speaking of July. Speaking of August, you both joined together and said that there was so much added in August. But didn't you think that this extra EUR 9.59 wouldn't outweigh the effort to travel to the parish government once every three months and prove that children have certain needs, that they still need this "need-based family support," this little money? What would you buy for this EUR 9.59 per month? And where did the number come from, that is exactly what children need when a family is in distress?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U52	This is additional support. I would not take the view that EUR 9 or EUR 10 per month or, in the future, a double sum is something that could be rejected. If we look at the other countries of the European Union and their child support rates, we will see that this is not the lowest rate of 19.19 euros in Europe. It is EUR 18 in Bulgaria, EUR 19 in the Czech Republic, EUR 8,22 in Greece, EUR 11,4 in Latvia. Slovakia is not too far ahead of us: EUR 21.99. In Lithuania, no child benefit is paid if the income per family member exceeds 152 euros. In Poland, the child benefit is EUR 17. These levels also exist in several countries, which are far more wealthy than Estonia. Additional support for families most in need is the most sensible way of using taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U53	Please, Mr Pikhof, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U54	Prime Minister! The need-based family allowance also includes a grandmother's pension and grandmother's salary when the family lives together. In that case, Grandma is also needs-based. Grandma is a person who has to make up for poverty in a family with children. Is that reasonable? And you didn't answer the question that you would buy six children for nine euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U55	I'd keep that to myself. I am absolutely not interested in what you spend your salary as a relatively large member of the Riigikogu, and I therefore assume that you should not be interested in where I put my salary. Once again, however, you made a second mistake in naming the number of need-based family benefits. You tried to correct me, but you attributed me some arguments that have no basis for anything. There were 2921 beneficiaries of needs-based family support in July 2013 and 337 in August 2013. I assume these figures are true, they are from the national institutions, not from your sources. I will certainly stick to my words on this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U56	Let us now go to the issues registered on the ground. Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U57	Prime Minister! First of all, I want to comment on one of your statements. Good or bad work for social workers does not determine how many beneficiaries of income support are. I have always thought that Estonia's economic growth will still reduce the beneficiaries. Indeed, social workers do not work a thousand times worse in certain regions. I would also like to say that it is very gratifying that needs-based family support is granted directly to families with three or four children and even bigger families without applying. The question is short: How do you feel about humiliating a proud Estonian or raising such a hand long ahead of you asking for support from the local government? After all, many people have to apply for this support from the municipal administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U58	You have dealt with the social field before and therefore the distribution of income support per capita between local governments of Estonia should not be a foreign subject to you. I do not deal with this every day, but in one year, I cannot remember this year, for example, the per capita income support in the municipality of Piirissaare was 1 kroon. In that same year, the per capita income support was 4 kroons and 62 cents in Aegviidu rural municipality, while in Urvaste rural municipality it was more than 1000 euros. How many cents was there, I don't remember. Therefore, it is really a reality that there are huge differences between local governments in Estonia in terms of receiving income support. None of you can convince me that there is a 250-fold difference in the standard of living between Urvaste and Aegviidu. Rather, it indicates that in one area the social worker has been very active, making maximum use of all the legal possibilities, while in another, people have not applied for this support. There is no atmosphere, there is no public opinion that would encourage all those who can receive support to ask for it. Of course, public poverty is directly dependent on the country's economic success. I am pleased to say that the income gap between the richest and poorest people in Estonia has decreased the fastest in the European Union over the last 13 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U59	Now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U60	Mr. Prime Minister! It was encouraging to hear your fresh point, I am trying to quote, after which you can look at the verbatim, that the payment of subsidies is the most sensible way of using taxpayers' money. That's how I wrote it down. Can it be concluded that the increasing number of beneficiaries, rising inflation and rising prices are indicators of our economic success? Is this the economically successful country you want to live in?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U61	You sure know how to twist other people's statements! But first I'm going to correct my previous answer. I thought I spoke in crowns, but my penguin says that sometimes I used euros. In fact, I meant all these rural municipalities' income subsidies in crowns. I'm sorry if I was wrong! I am saying that all countries have been socially equal in providing public services. For example, the education system has always been equal to society, even in dictatorship countries. Education systems have been determined throughout history to give talented children from poor families the opportunity to receive a good education. One of the roles of the state is to reduce social inequalities. Under no circumstances have I argued that the more subsidies, the better the country. However, I have argued that it is the duty of the state to help people who really need the help of the state. When we talk about need-based family support and child support, paying them is an effective use of taxpayers' money. Money is collected from all taxpayers and given to those who really need it. In response to this, we have a long practice of handing out grants in the same way to everyone. This is not a very smart way to act from the point of view of the state, if money is collected equally from everyone and then distributed equally to everyone again. There is not much intelligence in this and there can be no hopes of success on it either.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U62	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U63	The last question is from my colleague, Inara Luigas, is once again to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U64	Prime Minister! I actually have three really serious questions, but I probably won't be able to ask you all these questions today. It is clear that the revenue from the state budget has been expected this year, but a lot of tax money has not been collected. According to the tax office, EUR 222 million was not collected in the previous year alone. The Estonian Oil Association has approached the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, the Director General of the Minister of Finance and the Tax Administration, stressing that the tax receipts related to motor fuel have also drastically decreased. According to the Tax and Customs Board, an additional EUR 75 million could be lost from excise payments this year. My question is that these schemes, all these frauds, are not a new thing. Why has the government given so little attention to these frauds and what will be done in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U65	Tax receipts have been above the expected level. We have collected 67.2% of the annual budget in eight months. My reference base goes back to 2005 and I assure you that there has been no year in this period where, in eight months, the planned annual amount of resources would have been more than this year. But, unfortunately, you have the right to have certain taxes paid worse than expected. Income tax, in particular corporate income tax, has been better than expected, of which we already have the planned receipts for the whole year in eight months. Social tax has also received relatively well, because employment has been higher than we expected. Unfortunately, the revenue from excise duties on fuel has decreased. This decrease has not been drastic, but for me, 2.2% behind the graph is quite alarming. Combating tax fraud is the focus of the current government and this is an issue that the government must constantly address. We must, of course, report to ourselves that we will never achieve a final victory, but we must not give up fighting for a moment. Combating tax fraud will also be a priority for our government next year. The measures proposed have already been discussed in the press. We are talking about the operational transmission of transaction-related information to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, the granting of additional control rights to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U66	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Our Question Time is over. I thank you all for asking questions, Prime Minister and other members of the government, but thank you for answering the questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U67	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the second working week session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Colleagues, you can now hand over drafts and inquiries. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U68	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I will submit to the Riigikogu proceedings a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. With this draft, we are proposing certain rules on how much fuel can be imported into Estonia from a country outside the European Union without any discretion. I would like to remind you that there is already one draft on this subject in the proceedings of the Riigikogu (No 449). We hope that these drafts will be processed in parallel. Perhaps we can find a solution that not only satisfies one side of this hall, but also the people who live near the border and work at the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U69	Thank you. I have adopted a bill on behalf of the board. If it complies with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on this procedure within three working days. Now I'll give you the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Government of the Republic. a draft Act on the Foundations of the Property Reform of the Republic of Estonia and related amendments to other laws, initiated on 16 September, Committee on Economic Affairs; second, in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services and related amendments to other laws, initiated on 16 September, the Committee on Social Affairs; thirdly, in the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the Rail Act, the Emergency Act and the State Fees Act, initiated on 16 September, the commission of the Economic Commission; fourthly, the members of the Riigikogu, Tõnis Kõivu, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, Peep Aru and Siim Kabritsa. a draft law amending the Water Act and the Waste Act, initiated on 17 September, commission of the Environment Committee. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has confirmed the departure of the member of the Riigikogu from the seat of the Committee on European Union Affairs and the taking-up of the member of the Riigikogu, Erki Arrow, as a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs. I have forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimitus. Now, ladies and gentlemen, please do the presence check! 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U70	Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday we were in the middle of a debate on the first reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act, which was initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. We were in the middle of asking questions to the initiator's representative, Yana Toom. Please come to the speaker's desk, Yana Toom! Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U71	Dear waitress, When you spoke about this bill yesterday, I heard that there was also a meeting with representatives of the Police and Border Guard Board during the drafting and discussion in the committee. If I understood correctly, it was from that side that the current regulation was restrictive, but it is not worth paying too much attention to, because the Police and Border Guard Board itself ignores it. Let me get this straight, and shouldn't it really be the case that if regulation is really ignored in life, then it is in the way of time and needs to be changed, which is what the draft we are debating today is doing?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U72	Thank you! You are probably talking about a provision in the Aliens Act concerning the fact that the family must prove that it is impossible for them to move to the country of nationality of both spouses or to the country of nationality of the spouse applying for the residence permit. I was indeed told about this in private conversation and in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where we discussed it, that no one really takes this provision into account. I know exactly the opposite. Through social media, I asked people if anyone had come into contact with it, and I received dozens of answers that there are families who, even if one spouse has lived in Estonia for three or five years for example, have come to prove again by extending their residence permit that they cannot live in another country. This is not the case, of course, that the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the country concerned sends a letter to Estonia that we do not want to see these people here, but that they write long statements, which are then carefully collected. I do not have any information that anyone has been denied a residence permit application, but the officials themselves have confirmed that they do not comply very much with this provision. And if this provision is not applied in life, it is not wise to keep it in law either.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U73	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U74	Good colleague Yana! Yesterday you said that about 11000 residents live in Estonia with a temporary residence permit. Who are these people and why do they not have a permanent residence permit?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U75	According to the Office for the definition of status, there are three main reasons why people do not have a permanent residence permit. The first is that people are not long-term in Estonia in terms of law. The law provides that if you have a permanent residence permit to reside in Estonia, you must stay in Estonia for at least 183 days a year. For example, if you are a sailor or work abroad and are away from Estonia for at least 200 days a year, you will not receive a permanent residence permit. You register your absence, come back and thus extend this temporary residence permit until death or until your pension, something like this. That's one reason. Second reason: In order to be eligible for a permanent residence permit, a person must have valid health insurance, sufficient income and residence. However, we know very well the general social situation and that there are quite a lot of people who do not have one, another or third or all three at a time. And the third group is people who don't have the two problems I already mentioned, but they can't take a language exam with the required B1 level, as I said yesterday. The B1 level is what our children reach after comprehensive school when they have studied Estonian for 1080 hours. In the third group, there are mostly older people, and their situation is such that they do not, in essence, enjoy a legally guaranteed opportunity to join the family.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U76	Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U77	Honourable waitress! My question, too, is about the possibility of family reunification. The explanatory memorandum to our proposal for a legislative amendment contains a reference to European Directive 2003/86/EC, according to which third-country families can exercise the right to family reunification. Please tell us how the Estonian Aliens Act complies with this directive!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U78	In my opinion, it is consistent, but very formal. This directive, in particular, gives the country the opportunity to determine for itself what is at the heart of the family. We have this asymmetrical situation where a granddaughter can invite a grandmother and it is considered a family merger, but grandmother cannot invite a granddaughter to live with her. In this situation, granddaughter is not like a close relative or family member, which is very strange. One more thing: in fact, this directive does not require countries to take a language examination. It is our free will whether we apply this requirement or not. So we have taken it too rigidly and, in fact, as harsh the conditions that have been imposed in Estonia, the directive does not require anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U79	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U80	Good waitress! It is generally known that people who wish to move to another country with their spouse often apply for a residence permit. According to the draft, it would no longer be necessary to establish an economic link between the spouses in order to apply for a residence permit. What about economic ties in other EU countries? Is it important there to issue a residence permit or is it a purely Estonian invention to demand an economic connection?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U81	I can refer here to this very directive, which I have already talked about in my response to my colleague, Mrs Front. In fact, the directive does not give rise to such a requirement. It is enough that marriage is not fictitious and is a strong emotional bond, or in Estonian love. I understand that it is harder for an official to identify this link than an economic link, but we do have an absurd situation: family members live in different countries and cannot move together, so it is not possible to create this economic link. The European Union directive does not require such a thing, and so is the fact that we have imposed stricter requirements than those of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U82	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U83	Dear waitress, What opportunities does the Aliens Act give to people who are born in Estonia, for certain reasons, who have left this country for another country, for example, married or gone to work, but want to return to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U84	If they are Estonian citizens, of course there is no problem. If they are ethnic Estonians and can prove it, they are known to receive a residence permit to live in Estonia, but they do not receive benefits in applying for Estonian citizenship. For example, all those Estonians from Abkhazia who have come here with Russian passports are still Russian citizens, most of them have not been able to take an Estonian language test. But an Estonian and an Estonian citizen at all times have the opportunity to return. If we are talking about an alien who had a temporary residence permit or who left Estonia before the restoration of independence, he does not have this opportunity. This bill wants to give us the opportunity to return to Estonia, i.e. to our country of birth, to people who left for family reasons. We all know that in the Soviet Union there was such a great thing as directing. When you graduated from the university, you were assigned to work at a factory in Komsomolski, Amur. You worked there and got married, but now you'd like to come back to Estonia, but there's no way. The only way is to apply for a residence permit from the Estonian diplomatic mission, but the prerequisite for granting it is that a person has a legal income, a place of residence and everything else. It doesn't help if you have parents here who are willing to help and support you in the eyes of the law that doesn't matter. So there is no way these people can come back to Estonia, even though they may have been born here and lived here for the lion's share of their lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U85	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U86	Dear waitress, I understand that there cannot be an exact answer to my question, but you have dealt with this subject and perhaps you can tell the magnitude of how many people a year could be granted a residence permit because of this legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U87	Thank you, Mr Allik. I myself sought an answer to this question with a matchfire, but unfortunately, for the simple reason that the Police and Border Guard Board did not have statistics on how many people asked for a residence permit for family membership. Because, for family reasons, the residence permit has been requested by them and these people do not have such statistics. And another clever thing: there are no statistics on how many people have not been granted a residence permit, even though these statistics have been asked for. Moreover, of course, we will never know how many people have never filed this application because they have read the law and understood that there is no hope of coming to Estonia. So, unfortunately, I owe this statistical answer. But, yes, I've been dealing with this bill for quite a few months, and so I have 43 cases to know about these people that I know they'd like to live in Estonia. How many cases do we have to add here, maybe multiply it times 43 times some number? I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U88	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question! Who's playing with the buttons? Ladies and gentlemen, we are not in kindergarten. No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Toom. Now I would like to ask my colleague, Mart Nut, from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to present the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U89	Madam Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This draft law was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at the regular session of 9 September this year. In addition to the members of the committee, Ms Toom, who was the representative of the initiators of the draft 452, as well as the advisers of the Migration and Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, Ms Laura Sofia Annus and Harry Kattai, and the legal adviser of the same department, Eero Svarval, attended the meeting. During the debate on this point, a number of issues related to the law of foreigners were addressed. At times, the debate came out of the framework of this draft, but I am now restricting myself to the arguments that dealt with the 452 draft. I am not going to repeat the rapporteur's speech on the subject of a very thorough presentation. I would like to highlight the issues raised by the members of the Commission and the guests who attended the meeting. The representative of the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Kattai, explained the position of the Government that the decision of the Government of the Republic is not to support the 452 bill. On the basis of the above, the Commission concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning First, § 1 (1) of the draft law on the granting of residence permits to persons who have ever left Estonia and whose residence permit is invalid repeats in part the regulation already in place in the Aliens Act. According to § 252 of the Aliens Act, a foreigner's stay away from Estonia must be registered if a foreigner who holds a residence permit wishes to stay away from Estonia for more than 183 days per year. The Aliens Act also provides for the possibility, in the event of a valid reason to read, of being absent, to be justified afterwards, if the person has not registered it in due time. Mr Kattai replied to the question of how long it would be possible to register ex-post absence, that this could still be done during the period of validity of the residence permit. Commenting on the changes proposed in the draft, Mr Kattai said that the purpose of a temporary residence permit should still be taken into account. The provision of this is expected to have some connection with Estonia. If there is no such link, it is not considered appropriate to grant a residence permit to a person. Paragraph 1 (2) of the draft law, according to which the requirement of close economic ties between spouses would be waived, did not find the support of the Government of the Republic either, since the purpose of the relevant provision of the Aliens Act, or § 138 (1), was to take account of the economic embedding of spouses. In part, newlyweds are not expected to have a close economic connection, but it is considered necessary to assess the authenticity, functioning, mutual assistance, and other similar circumstances as a whole. There are no cases where anyone would have been refused a residence permit because people have just got married and there is no economic link between them. However, marriage and cohabitation as a whole are still assessed as a whole. Paragraph 1 (3) of the draft law concerns the content of § 142 of the Aliens Act, which deals with the granting of a temporary residence permit so that a person can move to an Estonian citizen's spouse or to an alien spouse residing in Estonia. Paragraph 142 (2) of the Aliens Act is interpreted as meaning that if such people wish to settle in Estonia, their wish is considered justified. If these persons do not live or stay in Estonia, this may, for some reason, constitute a basis for refusing to grant a residence permit. However, the aim has been to assess whether the people's desire to settle in Estonia is justified. The residence permit system must be valued and must not be allowed to be misused. Mr Borodich, Member of the Commission, asked that when a person applies for a residence permit abroad rather than in Estonia, this is the basis for refusing to grant a residence permit. Mr Kattai replied that it really does not matter where the application for a residence permit is submitted, it is important that a person really wants to come and live in Estonia. Mrs. Annus added that when applying for a residence permit to move with an alien spouse, the foreigner who wants to come to the spouse must be in Estonia for 183 days. If the spouse who wants to live with is not present in Estonia, this may constitute a basis for refusing to grant a residence permit. Mr Kattai also touched on Article 1 (4) of the Bill, which deals with the establishment of a child or grandchild in Estonia in order to help a parent or grandparent who lives permanently in Estonia. The current regulation is based on the principle that the person in need is moving to the donor, not the other way around. If the donor were to move to another country for help, it might happen that the donor, being in a strange environment and away from his daily work, would at some point become himself in need. It is therefore assumed that the person who needs help will move to the country where the donor lives. Let me not mention the details that were being discussed in the Commission. There's just one more thing I'm gonna stress. The question was asked that, should this draft become a law, whether it would make it easier to move into a country by means of a fictitious marriage and if it did, what the consequences would be. The representative of the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Kattai, replied that according to the Ministry of the Interior's forecast, the risk of misuse of fictitious marriages and residence permits would increase considerably if the bill became law. However, this has not been explicitly stated in the opinion of the Government of the Republic and no figures have been proposed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I will now announce the procedural decisions. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to put draft law 452 on the agenda of the plenary session for a first reading debate. a on September 17th. The decision was consensual. The second decision was to appoint Mart Nutt, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as well as by consensus. However, the third decision was not consensual; it was a proposal to reject the draft at first reading. 5 members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs voted in favour, 4 against and 1 abstention. The Commission's proposal is therefore to reject draft law 452 at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U90	Thank you very much, Mr Mart Nutt. Please, a question from colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U91	Good colleague! I'm interested in the statistical side, there's been a lot of talk about content. If we've talked about this today, it's enough to say, Black, count it after the verbatim. But it is not clear to me how many cases a residence permit has been granted for family reasons and how many cases it has been refused.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U92	No statistical data were provided to us during the debate on this draft. But I'm sure that data is there. They exist at the Home Office. If you're interested in the statistics, I'm sure you can ask the Home Office. Of course, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs can do the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U93	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U94	I'm taking this opportunity to clarify that the Ministry of the Interior doesn't have any statistical data on this. But my question is this: I ask it for the sake of the verbatim. You have said one strange thing here in my opinion, perhaps I missed it in the committee: the possibility of obtaining a residence permit for a spouse requires some connection with Estonia. If this is not the case, there are no grounds for asking for a residence permit. You argued this about people who live in Estonia on the basis of a temporary residence permit. Am I right to understand that the temporary residence permit is not linked to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U95	I think there's some sort of bypass here. A temporary or rather fixed-term residence permit is, of course, a link with Estonia, but this permit is usually granted by accounting that a person will either apply for a long-term residence permit after a certain period of time or until he/she does not do so, he/she still plans to leave Estonia. In a broader sense, there is actually a connection with Estonia, even if the visa is used to stay in the country. The question is whether this link is sufficient to establish family ties in one country or another. In general, Estonia does not do anything different when it is done in other countries. It is based on the fact that an Estonian citizen living in Estonia is bound to marry an alien and wish to live together in Estonia. That is a perfectly sufficient argument, and in this case there are only a few grounds for refusal, such as some kind of security reason. If it is a person living in Estonia on the basis of a long-term residence permit, it is also the case, but in the case of a temporary residence permit, the question really arises whether the connection is sufficient to create a family in Estonia. We imagine that one person is staying in the country for a period of time, and through him another person is coming into the country, as well as only for a period of time. This practice is not common in any country in Europe, as I know it can cause quite a lot of complications.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U96	Please, Mr Allik, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U97	Dear waitress, My attention was drawn to a position that you have put forward. The fact that our national policy is such that the person in need must leave Estonia. The donor cannot come to Estonia because he may himself become a needy person in Estonia. Although it doesn't make much sense, as a person usually starts working here and becomes a taxpayer. Do you think that such a national position makes sense in our demographic situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U98	I introduced the arguments put forward by the Ministry of the Interior, representing the Government of the Republic, which are not my arguments. What kind of population policy is sensible was not the subject of discussion during this draft law procedure. And, as you well know, as a Commission rapporteur, my competence is limited to passing on the Commission's debate. The presentation of personal views within these contexts is not enough. That is why I cannot answer your question more precisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U99	Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U100	Mr Nutt, you spoke in the Commission and you said now that you believe that a person who does not have a fixed-term residence permit and who does not apply for a permanent residence permit wants to leave Estonia. How does this go with the police and border guard information I introduced here on the remote that we have people who just can't take a language exam, and we have people who don't have sufficient income, living or health insurance? Do you think those older people who do not own the official language, or those who do not have a job or live, want to leave Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U101	I think that this needs to be assessed in concrete terms in each case. There are certainly people who have objective reasons why they cannot apply for a long-term residence permit, and there are certainly people who do not want to leave Estonia. This is really a matter of what is in the air right now, and I think it needs to be resolved in principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U102	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U103	Good colleague! Amendments relating to the law of foreigners often arrive in this Chamber, and we hear no answers every time. What would the Estonian state lose if the proposals we are discussing today were supported here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U104	I think that taking into account the proposals made in the draft proposal would have different consequences. I would like to take this opportunity to repeat once again what was going on in the Commission, which sees the greatest problem or problem in a circle. In fact, fictitious marriages could lead to abuse of the opportunities created by law. Surely this would not mean increasing legal compliance. I don't know, and I don't think you can predict how many people it might affect. But all countries have tried in their law to avoid the possibility that the country will arrive through fictitious marriages. Would it be as much a problem in Estonia as it is in countries richer than us, I cannot say. It is not a good solution either, to be honest, if Estonia is used as a springboard through our simpler rules and moved to another country through us. In general, I believe that we should not encourage entry through fictitious marriages. However, this could not be assessed until the State has abandoned some of the measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U105	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U106	Honourable waitress! I would like to clarify with my question your answer on the assessment of the situation. Did the Commission's meeting assess the problem that this draft is addressing? Does the Commission or do you think that the problem concerns the whole of society, or is it details that can be resolved, by saying, bureaucracy and legislative acts? Isn't that a problem for the country at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U107	I dare conclude, however, from the Commission's debate, that this was not explicitly stated, that this is not a problem at national level. There are always problems at individual level, but laws cannot be drawn up on a case-by-case basis. There must be reasonable exceptions to individual cases. I personally feel the same way, and that is what I emphasised in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U108	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U109	Dear waitress, I think you said a very good sentence, so just in case and for the x situation, we can't write the legal terms. All the more so has been said recently in the legal circles that perhaps our administrative authorities must be given more discretion. There is no need to a prioritize that there is this risk or that risk, but that the PPA official decides, on the basis of specific circumstances, whether or not there is a risk that someone wants a residence permit for criminal purposes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U110	Mr Borodich also asked the same question to the representative of the Ministry of the Interior at the meeting of the Commission, and the long answer given to him can be summarised briefly so that the representative of the Ministry of the Interior confirmed that this discretion exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U111	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U112	Dear waitress, The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the purpose of the draft law is to bring the Aliens Act into line with the Council of the European Union Directive and the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. How did the Commission comment on this? Do you see a contradiction with the directive or the constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U113	The possible conflict within the Commission with the Directive and the Constitution was not raised. I dare conclude from this that the Members of the Commission do not see this contradiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U114	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Dear colleagues, do the groups want to open negotiations? I would like to ask for a speech chair from the representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group, Yana Toomi.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U115	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not gonna talk here for a long time. I've said enough about this bill. However, I do follow Mr Nut's words, and I would like to say that our group cannot agree in any way with the view that this is not a national problem, that it is just a personal problem. His position very well illustrates the alienation that we have seen here. There are a very large number of people in Estonia for whom this is a major problem. People have to run around and go through a whole gauntlet, proving that they don't want to live in Uruguay, Ukraine or Georgia. They are also old people on the verge of death, alone and without help. We all know how our social system works, but we do not let these people's children or grandchildren take care of them, and they only want a residence permit until the death of a loved one, not longer. It's not human, it's not normal! I believe that I may be the only one living in Estonia on the basis of a residence permit for many years: from 1994 until 2006. I don't know why, but I was always given a temporary residence permit, four in a row. I'm scared right now when I think my husband worked eight months in Africa. I am sorry that I became very personal, but I would like to say that if he did not have Estonian citizenship, this would mean that he would never receive a permanent residence permit. It's not normal. And that's a problem for thousands of people. I am deeply sorry that such a large number of people do not understand this in the Riigikogu Hall. I ask you to think a little more about us not to change Estonian citizenship policy, Estonian language status and anything by approving the draft! We would just take a step towards the people for whom this problem exists. This would not lead to any fictitious marriages in Estonia, this is not true. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U116	Thank you. I would like to ask Kajar Lemberi, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U117	Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on this draft, both in the Commission and in this Chamber, can be summarised again by the sentence that there is an answer to each question, but these answers are largely questionable. The aim of amending the law on foreigners is to resolve the shortcomings identified in practice. It is clear that, as a legislator, we cannot foresee all things and, at the same time, we should be flexible, especially with regard to regulations that are very clearly affecting people's lives, families. Substantial changes can be considered to be the proposal to abolish the requirement of a close economic bond, which is a prerequisite for family life, which is a little lost in time, and to give adult children and grandchildren the opportunity to move in with their parents or grandparents. As a third nuance, I note the provision in this draft that applying for a residence permit to settle with an Estonian citizen's spouse may be considered unjustified if the spouse living in Estonia is able to move to the country whose spouse is or where his spouse lives, as well as if the spouses are able to move to another country. The current law allows an application for a residence permit to be considered unfounded even if the foreigner applying for a residence permit and the spouse to whom the residence permit is applied for do not prove that they are unable to settle in the country of which they are both nationals. Such a provision in the current law leaves a very clear possibility that a negative answer can always be justified by the fact that people can move to another country. After all, it is mainly about people who live legally in Estonia. It is a little strange that we are so rigidly interpreting this provision. The Social Democrats acknowledge that the current wording of the draft is questionable. There is certainly still a need for impact analysis and statistics to clarify the potential risks identified by the Ministry of the Interior, while not being able to substantiate their arguments with facts. This bill certainly can be improved, but the idea, above all, of allowing families to join and people to take care of their parents and grandparents, is important. We do not consider it justified by the government, or rather by the Ministry of the Interior, or even more correctly, to say that a couple of keen officials have a highly rigid view that this issue is irrelevant. In fact, these problems in real life can be solved. We are therefore in favour of completing the first reading of the draft so that it becomes a good law to help people live their private lives more flexibly and less bureaucraticly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U118	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the lead committee is to reject draft 452 at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee 452 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 33 against and no abstentions. The draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group 452 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U119	We will move on to the second item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Inara Luigas, Kalle Laaneti, Lembit Kaljuvee and Rainer Vakra. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu Lembit Kaljuvee, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U120	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I think most of us in the Riigikogu do not consider ourselves a waste management specialist, even though we are exposed to waste almost every day. I will give you an example of the draft. I cleaned up the basements and garages of my household this summer and picked up a large load of waste on the cart, from old TV, washing machine and vacuum cleaner to discarded chewing gum. I drove this load to Maardu, passed by the weight, and lifted things off. I went back to the booth, passed by the weight again, and I was told that there were 360 kilos of waste. I started paying, I realized 50. I pulled out 50 euros, so I'll pay you. Turns out 50 cents. 360 kilos of waste and 50 cents! Now let's see how much we pay for the waste when they're taken away from us. I started to calculate that I weighed the garbage I've been producing here in Tallinn for several years and paid 50 cents for it. If we look at the turnover of our waste managers and the money that goes through them, it is hundreds of millions of euros a year. It's an extremely big business. But if it's a big deal, you have to control it. Who needs to be in charge? The Riigikogu must certainly do so in the state. As a result of the need to improve this, in spring the four of us introduced a draft amending the Waste Act on three points. We focused on two things. The first thing I want to emphasise, and what we want to change, is that the current waste law allows the municipality to earn from waste. Not to earn directly, but to create non-profit institutions that are engaged in waste management. Why do I think it's incorrect? Because we all pay income tax to the municipality. Municipalities have either a utility department, a public utility government or a utility company capable of organising the shipment of garbage from our homes. But now some of the municipalities have come so far that there is something to be taken from this hundreds of millions of garbage business. Let the local government do it, but who does he make it for? He's actually making money for all of us. Yeah, the NGO doesn't make a profit, but the NGO has expenses. I'll tell you again that I took 360 kilos of garbage from Lilleküla to Maardu and paid 50 cents for it. On this link, I'd like to get a lot of all kinds of characters, a lot of carriers. And now the local government wants to make some money out of it, too, to be on top of the trash that has to be paid. There is one point in our proposal. The second point concerns the possibility of agreeing on the frequency of waste disposal. What is now in the law is not satisfactory. In certain areas, there is not so much garbage. This system should be more flexible, we should not be saying here how often waste bins must be emptied near houses. These are the two things that this legislative amendment is aimed at. That's all I have to say to introduce the bill. Please, if there are any questions, be good!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U121	Good waitress, there's a question for you. Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is good that you have largely analysed this important issue. But have you also analysed the local authorities that have created the joint management companies you mentioned, these NGOs? How much has the price of this service actually changed for the holder of the waste? I specifically have data from Harjumaa, where the price of this service has decreased as a result of the joint work of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U123	Thanks for asking. No, I don't have that specific analysis. I believe that this example of yours is also completely real and correct. I mean, it's a so-called momentary question. In principle, however, I would answer this particular question by saying that the more recipients there are in this chain that leads from home to landfill or processing, the more expensive the price is. Garbage management in Estonia has not yet settled down, and the fact that the municipalities have joined and called the garbage collectors to order that they had the strength to do it together is a stage. I mean, that might still be the case right now, but basically we should make the journey from home to a dump or processing as short as possible so that there are fewer mouths there because every mouth wants to eat.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U124	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U125	Thank you. Good colleague! It is very nice that, with one euro, a whole garage full of garbage can be disposed of in landfill, I believe that people will support it. But I understand that your proposals have a strong impact, say, on the reorganisation of Tallinn's waste system. If your proposals are supported, what will Tallinn City Government have to do as a first step to restructure the garbage removal systems?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U126	I think it would be very easy for the government. They have a utilities office, and let this office deal with garbage collectors, so you don't have to have a separate NGO. I mean, these NGOs are real. I have three properties in different municipalities, and I can say that there are no problems anywhere else than Tallinn, even though it is the most expensive waste disposal here. My wife's been working on this thing for over two months, even though it's some of the smallest containers. There's some bullshit going on all the time. I remember this thing has been going on for one or two years, the only thing that comes at exactly the same time, and specifically, is monthly numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U127	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U128	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! You have just said that this problem is only in Tallinn. When we had a debate in the Commission where you were present, there were representatives of the local government union, who were categorically opposed to your proposal. What do you think were the arguments why they were against your so good proposal? And on the other hand, speaking of 50 cents: what do you think if we add to it the cost of gasoline, if we add the cost of depreciation to your car and put the price on your time in some way, not on the Riigikogu's salary, but on something else, how much will come out then?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U129	As far as the end of this question is concerned, I have not made such a calculation. The price of this quantity will probably be ten or a hundred times higher, but it will certainly be cheaper than today in Tallinn. What do I say about the local governments rejecting it? Of course, they opposed, these municipalities opposed, who had received a taste of garbage producer or man - made service. They're already making money on it, they're already making money on it, they're employing the people who are working on it. But that doesn't mean it gets better. I say once again that the municipalities that took part in the debate had their own interests at the moment. But who was the source of this personal gain? It came at the expense of all of us who pay for the garbage.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U130	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The current Waste Act also provides for a fee to be paid to local authorities for the management of waste management in the form of a pollution charge. It is clear that the structure has changed, less waste reaches landfilling and therefore less money will be paid to the local government for the organisation. This is one reason why local authorities are actually looking for cooperation here. I know that a very large number of local authorities have addressed the Ministry with amendments and amendments that would solve the situation in a complex way. Are you familiar with them and agree that we can resolve this issue more complexly than the three written proposals you have come up with today?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U132	Thank you. Yeah, I'm aware the Ministry is preparing a bill like this. The Minister for the Environment spoke about this at the meeting of the Commission. At the same time, the Minister for the Environment also said that in principle the government supports the approach proposed by the four parliamentarians. The government supports this in principle; it does not oppose this approach. Yes, the government did not take a specific decision to support this draft, but they support these principles. The government also said that the Ministry is preparing a complex solution. But I would argue that we have heard so much about the complex solution in this Chamber. We have also said ourselves that yes, we better solve this complexly, that there will be a big complex solution. For example, Eiki Nestor has heard such a complex solution here hundreds and hundreds of times and, as a minister and as a member of the Riigikogu, has basically been on the same side, but against the other. Those things that go to a large complex solution are, unfortunately, very often unsolved. I think that is why the Commission, in its sitting, supported our draft so that we could just do something and clean up the two things that I was trying to bring out here alive and alive. Perhaps we can find something even better in this complex solution, but let's do it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U133	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I would now like the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Erki Noole.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In the Committee on the Environment, 455 draft laws amending the Waste Act were discussed. a on September 9th. In addition to the members of the committee, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, and Kaili Kuusk, Adviser to the Waste Department of the Ministry of the Environment, were invited to the meeting. Anne Läns, Legal Adviser to the Estonian Union of Cities, and consultant Irja Alakivi, Head of the Waste Management Department of the Tallinn Environmental Board, Kertu Tiitso, and member of the Riigikogu, Lembit Kaljuvee, who is one of the initiators of this draft. I'm going to be a little more specific about what the initiator didn't point out very strongly in his draft report. There are three amendments to the Waste Act. The most important amendment is the repeal of § 66 (11), which is due to the need to eliminate the situation where a local government unit becomes a user of the holder of the waste, i.e. a citizen or a lawyer of the final consumer. This is a fundamental change that the initiators are asking for. Paragraph 67 (1) of the Waste Act specifies that where local authorities cooperate in the conduct of the public procurement for the shipment of waste, the administrative territories of the cooperating local authorities constitute a single transport area. The position of the Government of the Republic was presented by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, who said that at the meeting of the Government of the Republic, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance had a supportive position. However, the Government of the Republic does not support the draft in this form, as the Government is planning to bring the regulation of the Waste Act as a whole to the Riigikogu this autumn. The Minister also pointed out that there was nothing fundamentally wrong with the draft law, but some of the principles of this draft could be combined with the proposed amendment to the waste law. The Minister considered that only two nuances to be dealt with in a separate draft are not sufficient, but the transport density and the new system implemented in Tallinn are subject to review. The important thing is that the consumer knows what he is ultimately paying for. Irja Alakivi, consultant of the Association of Estonian Cities, announced that the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments do not support this draft. There are aspects that have not been taken into account in the draft, and there are also arguments that are not true. Local authorities have a duty to ensure a sustainable, accessible and high-quality service, and this is certainly not guaranteed by the transition to the free market. They also expressed the view that breaking the system would be a huge mistake and premature action. The debate was relatively intense, lively, as has always been the case in the Committee on the Environment. That's how it's been, and it's probably gonna be. Finally, I will also say the decisions of the committee: to propose to the Riigikogu plenary to stop the first reading of the draft 455 (by 8, no one opposed, no abstentions 2) and to propose to the Riigikogu bureau that the deadline for submitting the draft 455 amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 1 October. a (this was a consensual decision). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I am about to open negotiations and call for a speech chair by Eldar Efendiev, who represents the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U136	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, In the last five years, the level of waste management in Estonia has steadily improved. We were with the Commission last week in the Pihkva region, where we really understood how far we have come from where we once were. The number of landfills that do not comply with environmental requirements has decreased as planned, and landfilling has also decreased. Waste recovery is growing strongly in a positive direction, which, for example, in the case of packaging waste, is already reaching a level of 50%. There is also an increase in the amount of waste collected separately from municipal waste. More and more oil shale waste and ash, for example, can be recovered in road construction. The draft we are discussing today concerns the marginal part of the Waste Act, in fact only three paragraphs. The draft proposes to repeal Paragraph 66 (11) of the Waste Act, according to which the shipment of waste may be organised in such a way that the sole customer of the waste transport company and the paying of the fee is a local government entity or a non-profit organisation authorised by it. In such a case, the obligation to keep records of and settle waste holders shall lie with the local government unit or its authorised non-profit association. According to § 6 (1) of the Local Government Organisation Act, the municipality is responsible for organising waste management in the municipality or city, unless this task has been assigned by law to anyone else. In a situation where a local authority takes over the provision of services and contracts to waste holders, it has undertaken to comply with the obligation under the Local Government Ordinance Act to organise waste management. At present, § 66 (11) of the Waste Act has been implemented by the City of Tallinn, for example, according to which the local government provides direct service to the customer. In addition to Tallinn, a considerable number of local governments wish to move to this solution. The provision of waste transport services as a vital service by local authorities is a common practice throughout Europe. In the Nordic countries, local governments predominantly provide the service by purchasing the waste transport service by the local authority and having a treatment facility. In the rest of Europe, the local government provides waste transport services through its own company. The local authority shall ensure that all waste holders have access to the same service, the same quality of service and the problems remaining so far, in particular temporary exemptions... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U137	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U138	... if the property is not supported or has no commercial activity. The local government is best placed to assess this situation in its region. At the same time, the waste shipper can carry out the main tasks, i.e. emptying waste tanks and transporting recovered waste to a treatment facility. This draft aims to end the current European approach to the waste management in Estonia. It's hard to judge whose interests it is, but certainly not in the interests of the people. The second point of the draft proposal proposes that § 67 (1) of the Waste Act be amended. The amendment would lead to a situation in which small municipalities and cities that are engaged in joint procurement should also form a common transport area. Such activities are not in line with the objectives of the local government. Local authorities shall be independent and shall have the power to decide whether the procurement is carried out in one region or in all regions of local authorities under the same conditions. As a general rule, each local government has its own specific needs for waste shipments and has several options to address them. Public procurement is organised by dividing the procurement into lots and there is no need to form a single large area. These are the problems dealt with in this draft, but unfortunately the draft does not provide a solution to these problems. As has already been said, the draft is not supported in this form either by the Ministry of the Environment or by the Association of Estonian Cities, but we believe that it is possible to improve the draft during the procedure. The Centre Party Group will certainly table amendments, and if they are taken into account, we are also prepared to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U139	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 455. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. a 2 October at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the second item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U140	Let us move on to the next item, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending § 7 of the Social Tax Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! It seems understandable that most of you now have thoughts about the near future, the 20th of October. Nevertheless, I think that Parliament should not forget any longer deadlines if we look further ahead. The 446 bill has tried to do this in order to improve today's situation. We are talking about our three-pillar pension insurance, the third or voluntary pillar, some improvement. These changes, which entered into force from 2012, have not produced or become operational. The situation with this voluntary pillar is that during its glorious times, more than 100,000 people voluntarily began to raise money for their retirement, more precisely, with the highest number of 135,000. Today, this figure has decreased considerably. Moreover, a lot of owners have emptied their accounts because of the pressure to make a difficult choice. People took advantage of their savings during the recession. In fact, we can also say that the first and second pillars together, which, in decades' time, will give the same level as today, i.e. 40% of the average pension wage, will remain exactly the same for most people. Another knowledge of voluntary pension insurance could be that it is possible for people with higher incomes to raise money there. As early as 2011, a few years ago, the average monthly income of those signing a voluntary pension insurance contract was EUR 1175. And here's the question: why isn't this third pillar moving, why is there no more members, why doesn't people think more about their future? The answer is simple, clear and unambiguous: people have no money for it. They cannot save their future from current incomes. In 2012, an amendment was introduced, and our pension law, as well as the Income Tax Act, started to talk about another type of pension, a special third pillar pension, a work pension. It should be said that in Europe, work pensions are largely not so much the father of the third pillar, but the father of the second pillar. The difference is that contributions are made not by the person himself, but by his employer. Pension funds such as those we have in the second pillar have emerged in Europe's so-called social security space in the form of occupational pensions, where employers transfer money to employees' pension accounts on the basis of agreements between employers and trade unions. The funds have invested money, and when people retire, they will receive this kind of employment pension together with the state pension. As far as we know, we do not have such funds. In the mid-nineties, one thought was to create them in this form, but they were probably not created simply because we had few such agreements and it was impossible to rely on them. Our legislation included a pension for work, as suggested by the government, for the simple reason that there is free movement of labour within the European Union. And in a large number of companies whose head office has a pension as a system in place in the country of residence, the free movement of labour means that a person must have this possibility even if the office is located in Estonia and he or she is working in Estonia. That is why I am quite convinced that we have introduced a work pension as one type of pension at the request of the European Union. We made this possible by giving the employer the right to transfer money to his employee's voluntary pension account, with the Income Tax Act setting a limit of up to EUR 6000 per year and up to 15% of the person's salary being exempt from special tax in the sense that there is no need to pay income tax. If the amount is higher, the income tax is payable. However, there is no exception to social tax, i.e. the total amount that goes into a person's pension account is taxed entirely on social tax, both 20% and 13%. How many such people there are in Estonia is not known; no one has counted them. In our discussions with the people of the Ministry of Finance, we have come to the conclusion that we should still have this knowledge, and for this year, the Tax and Customs Board will receive this information next year. But it can certainly be said that they are by no means more than 1% of the Estonian wage earners, this is an exception rather than a rule, these events are very rare. According to all assumptions, these are linked to the creation of such conditions in the parent company and should now be created in Estonia as well. Why it has not started to work is also simple and clear. Perhaps little has been said about this in the same way, but on the other hand, taxes will certainly prevent this. The content of the draft is simple: we are trying to make it easier for people and employers to use it. We do not dispute the 'tax policy' conceptual approach. However, this transfer of a person to a voluntary pension account, which we also have in law is called a work pension, must be viewed as a salary. That is why we think it is right that it will be taxed on social tax in the future. However, we do believe that the number of employers willing to offer their employees such an opportunity, wishing to get a better workforce from the labour market, could increase if we taxed this money only on the share of social tax insurance. The part of health insurance is also justified in substance, since it is a salary. In the case of a pension, however, the situation arises that if the employer is willing to transfer an additional amount of money to the person's voluntary pension account, he or she is also obliged to do so in the first and second pillars. Our draft would essentially mean that in the future, when such a decision has been taken and an agreement has been concluded, and the employer is prepared to make such a contribution to the pension account of his employees, it would remain taxed in the same way in terms of health insurance, but the part of the pension insurance, i.e. 20%, would no longer be taxed. Paragraph 7 (3) of the Social Tax Act lists the cases in which the social tax rate is not 33% but 13%. And the cases listed there are basically all cases where the state, the public sector, the state most, guarantees health insurance for certain groups of people by paying social security contributions for them. Our proposal is to supplement this list with the payments made by the employer to the occupational pension accounts of its employees. In this case too, social tax would not be 33%, but 13%, and we believe that this restriction, which is in the case of income tax, would also apply to social tax: 15% of the employee's salary and no more than EUR 6000 per year. Just as in the case of income tax, it would have been taxed at 13% for social tax. If it goes over, you're gonna have to pay for it. We can see that the adoption of this draft could really stimulate the use of this option. I do not believe that the situation in voluntary pension insurance will change significantly in the coming years, even if people's incomes are growing. There is no statistical indicator on which the opposite can be said. The only recovery in joining the third pillar was when more was said about pensions and the second pillar pension was introduced, then more people started joining the pillars. Now, as I said, the number of them has decreased. In other words, we do not think that there will be an increase in the number of people who are better able to secure their retirement in addition to the first and second pillars. However, we believe, even in the experience of other countries, that competition in the labour market for a better labour force can stimulate the situation, which is why we could give this opportunity to employers. I also consider it necessary to add that the adoption of this law requires a significant change in the Pension Insurance Act. By the way, this restriction has not been made at the moment, although the employment pension has probably already been granted to a hundred or two hundred people. However, if this law is passed and employers actually pay money for their employees to their pension account, then the Pension Insurance Act should definitely be amended so that the amount that the employer has entered into that account would not be the amount that the employee can already withdraw during the contract as it is now. This is one important difference between pension systems in the second and third pillars. You cannot withdraw your money from the second pillar, but in the case of the third pillar, everything depends on the agreement between you and the bank. If it says you can take the money out of it, you can take it, and as life has shown, a lot of people did it during a difficult time when they needed the money. There is no such freedom with regard to the amount transferred by the employer. This is for the simple reason that if people could withdraw their money, they would be paid as if they had a certain social tax concession. That wouldn't be fair. So let us think, ladies and gentlemen, after 20 October 2013, of dates such as 20 October 2033, 2043 and 2053. Also in Estonia, people live, work and receive a pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U142	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your report you stopped at this and you have also said in one of your articles that in order to avoid pay under the pension insurance label, the employer's pension insurance contributions should be subject to a different regime. So as not to give the impression that you're just halfway there, that there's one important component missing, I'm asking you if you have it and if you can get to know it. Perhaps you can describe it here on the ground to give you an idea of what you want to do in order to avoid a situation where the insurance label basically pays your salary?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U144	It will. If the plenary of the Riigikogu, unlike the Finance Committee, decides to conclude the first reading of the draft today, I myself will write an amendment with my right hand, in which this bill will include a section which will supplement the Pension Insurance Act and say that the amount transferred by the employer cannot be withdrawn before retirement. It also needs a debate in the Commission in the sense that we should then agree on an age limit. The age limit is not always the retirement age, but there are exceptional cases, for example when a person is unable to work. We could discuss this in committee, but I am certainly prepared to propose an amendment. This is not the case now because there is no limit to the amount that we are described as a statutory pension from 2012.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U145	Aivar Sõerd, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U146	Since I'm right about the second question, that's what I'm asking. The first pillar would suffer as a result of the implementation of your draft. How are you going to solve this problem? After all, all this tax relief actually comes at the expense of the first pillar.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U147	I apologise to my honourable colleague. The first question was extremely constructive, and the second question misled the delegates. If no one currently makes contributions to the occupational pension account, no additional social tax will be paid. If we keep only the part of health insurance, health insurance wins the money if money is put on working pension accounts and public pension insurance doesn't lose anything. This is the actual situation. The point is, this thing's gonna get better. Health insurance wins, and the first and second pillars of public pension insurance do not lose anything. At the moment, we demand that employers contribute to the three pillars at once. The idea of this draft is that if the three pillars are too expensive to live over a year and a half, it has shown that no one has started to make large contributions, then employers would be attracted and revived in such a way that money can only be placed in the third pillar and that putting money in the first and second pillars does not make it an obligation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U148	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I now ask for a presentation of Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft amendment to § 7 of the Social Tax Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group at its meeting on 10 September. At the meeting, the views of the initiators were presented by the previous speaker. I'm not going to renegotiate the contents of the bill, Eiki Nestor introduced it exhaustively. I would add that the Government of the Republic also shaped its position on the draft in its summer session on 4 July. Kairi Ani, Head Specialist of the Tax and Customs Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the positions of the Government of the Republic to the Commission. The Government of the Republic did not support the draft for two main reasons. Firstly, the purpose of establishing occupational pension was to introduce the same tax regime for employee and employer contributions. Secondly, the regulation proposed in the draft would result in unequal treatment depending on whether the contributions are made by the employer or by the employee on his salary. The draft was discussed in quite a number of respects. First of all, the same unequal treatment mentioned above, which was also set out in the Government's position. In this regard, the author explained that the comparable groups in this case are employers: firstly, those who contribute to the pension fund of the employee's own choice, and others who make payments to the so-called employer's pension fund. The amendment to the Social Tax Act would provide that the 20% social tax concession only concerns contributions to the employer's pension fund. That was the explanation of the initiator. In the Commission, the question was whether, in addition to the current three-pillar system, the creation of the fourth pension pillar should be considered. The answer was that it would sometimes be worth considering if it was not possible to withdraw the money before the retirement age. That's what the previous speaker said. In essence, however, the introduction of such a system would involve the organisation of additional insurance. The question then was that, since it is possible to withdraw money from voluntary pension funds at any time, the employee could also withdraw money after the employer's contribution to the pension fund, which would essentially mean taxation of that part of the remuneration at a social tax rate of 13%, only the part of health insurance. The initiator of the draft act explained that, in order to avoid such a situation, provision should be made for occupational pensions not to be withdrawn before reaching a certain age, or, if so, only in relation to the deterioration of health. However, we had to admit that the draft does not currently provide for such a regulation. The impact of the draft on the state budget was also discussed, which could be the impact of social tax specifically transferred to public pension insurance funds. The representative of the Government of the Republic explained that they are currently unable to assess how employers' behaviour would be affected if the draft came into force and how popular this system could become. The idea that it is not currently possible to predict a specific financial impact was also, in principle, the initiator of the draft, who referred to the implementation costs set out in the explanatory memorandum and that the total number of volunteers has decreased over the last few years, and that the total number of people of working age has decreased by 1 to 2%. Finally, the Commission made a procedural decision: to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the draft be rejected at first reading (there were 6 members in favour of the decision, 5 against, no abstentions). This was the debate in the Commission and this was the decision taken by the Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U150	Thank you. Good waitress, you have questions. Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U151	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Austet waitress! In its unsupported statement, the government has made one statement extending the logic. The government claims that our draft would create an unequal situation, because the tax credit benefits only those working people whose employer decides to make the contributions mentioned in the draft. Is it not also the case that only the working people whose employer has decided to pay the occupational pension benefit from the occupational pension? What is this inequality here? As a representative of the coalition, can you explain the government's position or logic to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U152	Thank you for your question. Clearly, there is a contradiction in the way that when an employee makes contributions to the third pillar, he does so from his income, from his salary, but the salary is subject to a social tax of 33% (both the pension insurance part and the health insurance part). If the employer starts making contributions according to your bill, the contributions he makes will be taxed only at 13%, i.e. with the share of sickness insurance. This unequal treatment arises depending on whether the employee pays himself or the employer does so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U153	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U154	Thank you, President of the sitting. A good rapporteur from the Committee on Monetary Affairs! We are processing this bill at first reading today. As far as I understand it, there will be a second reading before it can be adopted, in the meantime there will be an opportunity to table amendments and this can be improved. Of the arguments why the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not support the draft, it was as if one of the most demanding ones was that people still could not cash this pension until they reached retirement age. In his presentation, Eiki Nestor made it clear that the initiators are willing to make the proposed amendment, and the Commission can also make such an amendment. Why, however, was this bill not left in the process? What was the more serious argument that we are voting on this draft today on a proposal from the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U155	There are, of course, still problems here, but that was the main thing that remained unclear to the Members of the Commission. The specific draft concerns the amendment of the Social Tax Act, while the amendment of the pension insurance regulation leads to the amendment of other laws. However, at least some of the members of the Commission remained very serious in view of the fact that this benefit could be used to reduce social tax by pension insurance. This was certainly one of the problems that worried the Members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U156	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U157	According to the laws currently in force, which a respected co-rapporteur certainly knows better than I do, an individual can deduct from his or her income interest on a mortgage, training costs, as well as contributions to a voluntary pension fund. However, all three costs must not exceed EUR 1920 per year. The employer can now transfer an amount not exceeding EUR 6000 to the person's working pension account without additional income tax. Where is equal treatment here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U158	Well, of course, one can also point out this aspect, but it certainly does not take away the problem of the unequal treatment I have referred to. But I understand that the question is aimed at why the Commission still did not support this draft. The problem is, in fact, that the third pillar is not popular. In this sense, I agree with you that one could think about how to make it more popular for so-called investors or people who inevitably have a need to secure their own future. Tax relief is not the only and all-encompassing measure; there are many other solutions that could be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U159	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U160	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Sometimes in this hall, the questioner asks one thing and the answer answers the other. I am now quoting literally the government's negative position. At the beginning of the last paragraph, the Government states: "In addition, only those working persons whose employer decides to make the contributions mentioned in the draft would benefit from the tax credit. " If translated, the problem for the government is that only working people whose employer decides to pay their occupational pension benefit from occupational pension. Can you explain where this unequal treatment is? Where's the problem for the government? Or is there a problem with us that we don't understand?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U161	Yes, of course, a letter from the government may begin to reflect on one aspect or another. Actually, I've already told you what surface this problem is going to be on. If the employee pays contributions himself, he will pay from the salary taxed on both the part of the social security contribution and the part of the pension insurance, but you will propose that the employer be able to do so without the share of the social tax pension insurance, i.e. by 13%. There will be inequality, and it has been referred to in my best understanding in the government's opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U162	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U163	Thank you, President of the sitting. A good rapporteur from the Committee on Monetary Affairs! As I understand it, this draft is really planned to be voted out of the procedure today as a result of the vote by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But at the same time you admit, and probably this was also mentioned in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, that there are small questions about this issue, there are problems. As we know, the third pillar has not proved as popular as we would like. If the solution we have proposed does not fit, does the government have a position or a plan to improve?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U164	Thank you. I am on the border here because the answer to this question goes a little outside the framework of the Commission's debate, although it relates to the subject. I will answer you this way: instead of focusing on some tax mistakes, you could think about how to make investing in the third pillar more attractive to people. Yes, I agree with the previous speaker that people's incomes are really low, but incomes are still growing, and lately quite fast. So that's definitely not the only reason. Perhaps the reason is that when people look at the state of their pension accounts, they see that they are in a red state. Perhaps we should think about this and discuss it in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, how to achieve a situation such that the balances on the accounts are not red, but green, so that they generate more revenue. One possibility here is certainly to review the regulations on pension fund investments. Aren't these regulations too strict, whether it might be necessary to update them according to the evolving situation in the economy and financial markets? Does it have to be that pension funds can't really invest in real estate? The current regulation allows only 10% to be invested in companies that own real estate, 10% to be acquired, but the pension fund is a small shareholder in a company that owns real estate. Perhaps one should think that they may still be able to make an investment capable of acquiring more than 50% of the holding, thereby expanding the investment horizon and also increasing the fund's productivity.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U165	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U166	I'm still coming back to that occupational pension. You said there were actually a number of other options in our bill. Why don't you tell me specifically about this type of pension, what these options would be?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U167	Thank you. Now, if I understood the question correctly, I can continue to talk, in answer to the previous question, I was actually starting to talk about it. Another point of thought might be that, if, at present, pension funds can only invest in listed shares or bonds, they might start to invest to some extent in non-quoted shares. In this respect, the risks may be higher, but profitability is higher and at the same time it would stimulate the entire financial market. There are quite a lot of opportunities to think about and what the Committee on Monetary Affairs should deal with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U168	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U169	I agree that there are quite a number of issues that the Committee on Monetary Affairs could deal with. However, I am going back to this draft, which concerns this so-called occupational pension. I understand from the point of view of the Government of the Republic that unequal treatment is that for some future pensioners, today's employees, the employer may start to pay pension and not for others. Does this logic mean that unequal treatment is also the fact that some people are paid by the employer and not paid by others because they do not work?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U170	Thank you. I have to admit, unfortunately, that I did not understand the question. The government's position is there in writing, try to read it meaningfully. I don't think you need to accept me as a translator to understand that view.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U171	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U172	Thank you. I sympathise with the co-rapporteur that he must explain a position that cannot be explained. The whole story was more about the future of the second pillar, or it was about those who have already joined. After all, the point of this bill is that people who save for retirement would be more and that their pension would be higher. Since we have been very popular for a long time to give examples of foreign countries in the fight for domestic policy, particularly Greece, is the kind of country where examples are given, I ask you that neither the Reform Party and the IRL have any intention of doing Poland or Hungary with our funded pension for God's sake.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U173	Thank you for your question. Greece is a very nice country, especially if we look at it as a tourist destination. In those days, the Greek Prime Minister made a statement saying that in six years' time, Greece will be back on the road to living standards before the crisis that there is hope. I may not be so optimistic, but it seems that things are going to get better there sooner or later. The example of Poland is, of course, very warning for Europe. My understanding is that at least the Estonian political parties represented in the Riigikogu do not even think about the kind of step Poland wants to take if they implement this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U174	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U175	Thank you. I have another question about the same bill. A lot was said here that pension funds are not able to invest in various bonds. I'm gonna ask you this way. After all, these funds would be stronger than the amount of money there will be. Will the Government of the Republic, if they reject our bill, have any alternative proposals to encourage the coming of money into this form of pension insurance? All kinds of tax distinctions are ruled out, but are there any other options? Let us not now talk about investment opportunities for funds, but about how to bring people to funds at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U176	Thank you. That is actually a very good question. I know that the Ministry is working on this and I hope that the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu will also address the issue of how to generate greater interest in investing in these funds. The initiator of your bill was only talking about people having no money and that's why they don't collect funds for the future. I will, however, also pay attention to the fact that people do not have sufficient interest or trust in this system and their funds. This is, on the one hand, a communication problem, but, on the other hand, people's interest would certainly be greater if they could see that the money deposited does not decrease, that inflation does not eat it, but that these investments are growing. However, it is necessary to achieve a situation where the performance of the third pillar pension funds would be higher, and one option is to change regulation, to change the environment in which they can make their investment decisions. At the moment, this regulation is very strict, in essence it does not make sense to invest in real estate. Why not think about investing in precious metals, for example? I already named unlisted shares. We have an alternative stock exchange, but it is non-existent, currently only one of the Estonian companies is listed there. It's more of a joke. They can't be there if there aren't people who buy shares. But pension funds, if they were to be granted such a right, at present they do not have that right, maybe they would be interested in this, a slightly different, slightly riskier instrument. Perhaps they are interested in diversifying their current portfolios and taking a little higher risks.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U177	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U178	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I really don't understand why the government's against this bill. When people are always saying that it is necessary to save, that people should be called on to save and that businesses should also contribute, this would be a very simple step in this direction. But since the government departments are clearly against this bill, I will ask more generally. Could this opposition come from the fact that the coalition ambassadors somehow feel that this draft Socialist bill is part of some broader scheme?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U179	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I asked the originator about this broader scheme. I asked what this social security thing was going to look like, which is actually the problem that the initiators do not currently have such a specific broader scheme. This was also asked in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Once again, the main problem I want to point out here in answering your question is that it is not the tax guy that solves the problems. The problem is much wider and the question is how to promote investment in the third pillar, encourage it, make it more interesting for people. There are far more measures for this than one of the tax revenues you have proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U180	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U181	Thank you. From the point of view of the Government of the Republic, it also seems to me that there is some kind of broader scheme here. I'm trying to understand that. I'm sorry if my last question was a little abstract, I'm trying to make it more specific. I quote the view of the Government of the Republic: 'In addition, only those working people whose employer decides to make the contributions mentioned in the draft would benefit from the tax credit. ' This is highlighted as a serious problem with the draft. Can this logic also suggest that if the state wants to reduce income tax from 21% to 20%, only those who benefit from the so-called tax credit will benefit from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U182	No, you get it wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U183	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Dear colleagues, do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Aivar Sõerdi, representative of the Estonian Reform Party, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U184	I would like to address this problem very briefly, because the issue of investment in the third pillar is, in itself, something that needs to be dealt with and which could also be the subject of the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in the future. The initiator of the draft act said from this board that the main problem of why there is no investment in the third pillar is that people's income is so low that it is therefore impossible to do so. However, this is only one aspect; it is not the only and main problem. Rather, the problem is that people are either not aware of the possibility of securing their pension through the third pillar in the future or they do not trust these funds. Moreover, I would say that people are not satisfied with the returns that the funds have provided so far. Indeed, inflation is doing its job and, in some funds, investment is in a red state. Therefore, there is no reason to come up with any tax mistakes here, but the state should think about how to promote the growth in the profitability of pension funds, to increase the efficiency of these investments. That is why it is time to review the regulations imposed on pension funds. As a first step, pension funds could be allowed to invest more than 10% in companies that own real estate, as an alternative, for example more than 50%, so that the fund could essentially own real estate. The current regulation does not allow pension funds to invest in unquoted shares. Here, too, you might think of allowing it on some scale. This would also be a step in the direction of promoting an alternative exchange. It's the same with bonds. The current regulation only allows investment in quoted bonds, but one might think that, to some extent, funds can invest in non-quoted bonds. As a summary, the whole of the current regulation could be reviewed and considered in order to liberalise pension fund risk and liquidity portfolios and to change investment restrictions. This is certainly an issue that the Committee on Monetary Affairs could deal with in the near future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U185	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U186	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the following comments. In general, I think that it would be okay if the Commission's co-rapporteur had fulfilled the mandatory part of his report, which is explaining the opinion of the Government of the Republic to the MPs, that is right and that is the way to do it, in case he himself does not share this opinion, he says that it is bullshit. That a summer intern has written it together and the Commission does not actually support the draft for any other or third reason. It's no shame. At the moment, it was a bit of a pity for my colleague, Sõerdi. I guess we deliberately bullied you, and you got our opinion of the Government of the Republic's opinion on your skin right now. But it's part of the broader plan, I'll tell you that. On the other hand, it's serious. After all, the issue of savings pensions is wide-ranging, and it was the last week. It's no secret this system has its drawbacks. I can tell you that sometimes I get a huge urge to participate in this fight, too, and I think I might be able to criticize this system myself even better than all the critics put together. I've failed to do this for the simple reason that no one has come up with anything better. In other words, no better solution has been found to this problem of the transition from generation solidarity to the payment of pensions under the shrinking population of the Bismarck system. I think one of Estonia's paths could be that, in addition to the first pillar that needs to be repaired, and the second pillar, where connectivity is very serious and countable, we are reviving the third pillar. I do not know what this pension is, whether it is the fourth pillar in its full form or whether it does not know how many more in this pillar system it would be appropriate to say that it is now two and a half, it is somewhere between second and third, but it also needs to be given opportunities. Of course, there is an important question of trust. In today's circumstances, to think that trust in funded pension funds is high after the recession would be naive. But on the other hand, we must also make sure that this opportunity is easy and good to use. When the Riigikogu discussed working pension, I asked the Minister about these things. To be honest, this working pension, in its present form, is a form of pretending that it exists. It's more like giving in to pressure. But there should be such an opportunity, people should be given the opportunity to invest in their future in accordance with certain rules. And I think that the hope that competition in the labour market will increase this entry into employment pension is greater than the hope that people themselves will join more. So I call on you to support this draft at first reading, despite the vote by the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U187	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject draft 446 at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 45 members of the Riigikogu, 21 against, no abstentions. Draft 446 Act amending § 7 Social Tax Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U188	Dear colleagues, let us move to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Act on Supplementing Environmental Supervision, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Environment Committee, Valeri Korbi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U189	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft amendments to the Environmental Supervision Act were initiated by the Government of the Republic. On 3 June 2008 and the first reading took place in this Chamber on 18 June. No amendments were tabled by 10 July. The Committee on the Environment discussed the preparation of the draft second reading at its meeting on 9 September and finalised one technical amendment according to which the draft specifies § 82 (3) of the Environmental Inspection Act and formulates it as follows: 'The procedure for keeping the inventory of the Objekt and the database of offences, including the more accurate composition of the data to be entered in the inventory, the procedure for issuing the data and the period of storage shall be laid down in the basic regulation of the relevant database. ' We all voted in favour of it in consensus. With the technical amendment to the second draft § 82 (1) (6) the word "Notifications' has been replaced by "Preliminary Notices' which in no case alters the content of the draft. The vote showed a consensual outcome. On 9 September, the Committee on the Environment decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft law supplementing the Environmental Supervision Act 443 be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 18 September and to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of the draft law 443; if the second reading is terminated, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the third reading be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 25 September, to put the draft to the final vote and to adopt it as a law. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-18_U190	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments to draft 443 have been tabled. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the fourth item has been dealt with. Good colleagues, that concludes today's trial. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 4 p.m.
