ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of several members of the Riigikogu, I present an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. We want to know what the Minister has done and what he intends to do in order not to repeat the situation where 180 people were fined on the basis of unchecked speedometer readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Now let's go to the messages. On Wednesday 13 February, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Culture Rein Lang and Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder. Secondly, the President of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas, the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now making a presence check. 78 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 23. Let's go to today's agenda. First of all, within the framework of the third item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic, the presentation will be made by Kalev Kotka, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. First, the first reading of draft 253 of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. I'll introduce you to the procedure. The report of the representative of the bill shall be up to 20 minutes, followed by questions. The presentation by the representative of the commission responsible for the draft will then be up to 20 minutes, followed again by questions. A member of the Riigikogu may ask both rapporteurs an oral question. This will be followed by negotiations. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U5	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 14 June last year, before the summer break, the Central Party Group issued a draft decision proposing to the Government of the Republic to develop legal bases for the reorganisation of the county government and the winding-up of the county governor's institution, and to balance sectoral and territorial governance, which would strengthen the cooperation structures of local government units and their competences. Last June, February of this year has become 14 June. In the Commission, it only took ten minutes to discuss this draft. This does not seem to be a very important issue that could be discussed in our country at the moment. According to subsections 66 (3) and 88 (1) of the Government Act, rural government is a government institution operating in the area of government of the Ministry of the Interior, which serves the county governor and is under the direction of the County Elder. According to § 83 (1) and § 84 (1) of the Government Act, a county elder is an official appointed by the Government of the Republic on a proposal from the Minister of Regional Affairs, who represents the interests of the state in the county and takes care of the comprehensive and balanced development of the county. The definition of county government in § 88 (1) and the basic functions defined in § 88 (1) (5) of the Act have remained unchanged, so since 1996 the county governments and county authorities have acted under the same law. Since 1996, the definition of the main functions of the county governor has remained unchanged: to represent the interests of the state in the county and to take care of the comprehensive and balanced development of the county. By now, you can say, the main functions of the mayor and the county government are fading. As a final example, family medicine was handed over to the Health Board, and rural governments and county authorities no longer have to deal with this issue. There are still many tasks that have been transferred and are no longer dealt with in the county. Although the main function of the county governor and the county government serving him is to care for the comprehensive and balanced development of the county, the county elders and rural governments still have less weight than other government agencies, ministries, agencies, etc. They also do not have the opportunity to contribute to the actual performance of the key functions assigned to them by law. With changes in the competence and activities of vertical sectoral administrative structures, ministries, agencies and local authorities with powers of executive power, the mayor has lost the competence of the county government as head of government and as a horizontal functioning government institution for the real performance of his principal function as a government agency under the Government Act. The current list of functions of the County Elder and the County Government includes a wide range of activities and activities in the fields of environment, culture, sport, education, etc., as well as regional development planning in rural economy, transport, etc., but they lack resources and competences, thus also the ability to coordinate and develop the activities of ministries, agencies and their local structures in a coordinated manner. All real levers, including financial resources and decision-making, have been concentrated in the hands of ministries and, at best, the county government is engaged in organising the financial intermediation decided by the ministries without having the competence to manage processes involving the whole county. Thus, as a horizontal or county-wide player, the mayor and the county government are reduced only to the function of interlocutor and operator of the sector's power vertical resource. For example, the total amount of the planned receipts for 2012 by rural governments from other public authorities amounted to EUR 43.5 million. Today, as head of the county administration and government, the rural government no longer has a real instrument or resource at its disposal to ensure the comprehensive and balanced development of the county. There is also a lack of competence for planning sectoral policies of territorial scope and a resource for the realisation of regional development programmes. The tasks of the state and local governments should be separated. For example, sport, culture and many other areas should be provided for curating county self-government associations. The functions of the parent's activities and functional organization are fading, the real decision-making power is lacking. To date, the position of a rural elder has become a warm place for a person belonging to a particular party who has no responsibility and who is able to deal calmly with the affairs of his party. The Estonian taxpayer cannot and does not have to support such an official. Undercover funding for political parties is provided through county elders' offices. Let me give you an example. Seven rural elders currently belong to the IRL and seven rural elders to the Reform Party. I ask: how is it possible for these county elders to lead balanced development in the county and to pursue balanced policies? I will give you just a few examples where the mayor has intervened directly in the activities of local governments. This is not a balanced development of the county, but, on the contrary, an obstacle to the development of the county. I will mention, for example, the case of Põlva, where the Municipalities Association agreed that the construction of one school was placed in the seventh ranking. The governor and the secretary of the country, who happened to be the chairman of the school board, moved the object to another place. The school has now been built for three years, the cost of construction is about 4 million euros, and 19 children were born last year. Or Pärnu's story that we could read about in the Postman. The IRL mayor persuaded the local government leaders to join the IRL and it turns out to be effective. But whether it was right to do it for taxpayers' money, I highly doubt that. Or a case from Harjumaa: Mrs. Rajasalu, the head of Harju County, began to defend her personal or family interests as a county elder, by organising supervision in a kindergarten where her grandson happened to be. I wonder why there is an education office in Tallinn. Such examples could be found in any county. At the same time, rural elders who have actually realised that maintaining such a system does not make sense, and they themselves have expressed the view that something needs to be changed. One example is the way in which county elders deal with the issues of state secondary schools. I ask: what is the law that states should have state secondary schools? And yet the county elders are active in it. This is the policy of one party: do the county authorities have to implement the policy of one party? Our proposal is to reorganize the system. The first step could be that administrative tasks should be assigned to the head of the office, the person who runs the county government, which is, in fact, one small office left. Whoever's in charge of it is a decision-making place. The functional functions, i.e. the supervision of the state, are carried out by the Ministry. Whether it's a ministry department or how it's organised, it's up to the regional minister. In the second phase, the functions that could be transferred to the local government associations should be mapped out. However, the Ministry of the Interior needs to find an optimal solution to the state's supervision of the county government and of all the activities in the county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U6	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U7	Good waitress! When we really discussed this issue briefly in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a representative of the Minister for Regional Affairs was also present. He confirmed that they are now preparing an overview of the number of assignments that rural elders have. They are only halfway through this review, but there have already been 600 assignments that the rural elders need to carry out. You've been a pretty long-time local government manager and working with the county elders. Can you tell me what the 600 assignments the county elders have to carry out?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U8	I don't know what the county elders have to do. These functions, which are performed in the county, are not the functions of a rural governor; they are the duties of officials who are still employed in the rural government. It is clear that this resource does not exist. That number of 600 is, of course, strange. I don't know, you can pick out all the relevant points from all the laws, and you can add them together, maybe you can get a large number. But if this area is not covered by resources, then there is no point in bringing out all kinds of figures. Nothing has happened if politicians have not been able to agree in six months which party will have a country leader's seat. The county government has been without a rural governor, but no trouble was born of it. So there's not much to the mayor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U9	Good waitress! You spoke and gave examples that the mayor didn't have any money, no power, so it's like a pointless man on the ground. In fact, the President and I also have the fact that he does not command the financial resources, except to support the office that works under him. Did you also mention in the debate on this issue that maybe you should lose the presidency?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U10	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U11	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U12	Thank you, Lembit! We did not discuss this in the framework of this draft. I have had the luck of 18 years running the municipality, and I have seen how the status of rural governments and rural elders has developed. In the early years, the county elders were well - respected people; they were even invited to the meetings of the Government of the Republic every Tuesday. I think that almost every Estonian resident knew which county the mayor is in office in. If you ask me now, I think even Mr. Prime Minister would be in trouble if he was asked to count all the IRL county elders. This shows once again how marginalised this occupation is, and it is not the fault of the country elders. I don't want to blame the mayors for that. They're just left without money and power. But posts need to be filled, and now it is a very good opportunity to fill them on a party basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U13	Dear waitress, You are saying that self-governing functions should be handed over to the local government associations. What is the capacity of these alliances to undertake some kind of task now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U14	I think that this ability has increased a little, because this year's state budget even allocated additional sums to the county self-government associations. I don't know what the reason for this is, but I'm happy about it. And that ability can be enhanced. If the state transfers some of its functions to the contract and the money comes with it, I do not see the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U15	Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U16	Dear waitress, When you look at how the country elders are assigned, you realize that some neighborhoods are under the control of one party all the time, but there's some kind of exchange going on in the other. There was once a Reform Party in Ida-Virumaa, now there is an IRL. I don't think you discussed it in the committee when you talked about this topic for ten minutes at all, but is there a pact, something like the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, in which Estonia is divided in half and, according to this, a member of a certain political party is appointed to the position of mayor?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U17	We didn't discuss it in the Commission, we didn't have time. But I do think there is another treaty besides the Coalition Treaty, which determines how these positions are to be allocated, how many rural elders belong to the IRL, how many belong to the Reform Party. Obviously, this agreement also extends to the boards of companies. But we did not discuss it in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U18	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U19	Good waitress! Of course, unfortunately, your party does not have any country elders. Maybe this is the subject that you find interesting that you have no one to ask what the mayor is actually doing in the county and how he does it. On the other hand, I agree with you that every year the functions of the mayor of the country have decreased, but a lot depends on the person sitting on that chair. Perhaps in order to solve this problem, it would be better if the county elders were directly elected in the region rather than designated by the state? But then, of course, they would no longer be representatives of the state there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U20	Thank you for a good question. I agree with you. Once upon a time, the county elders were chosen directly in the county. Then their relationship with the people was much closer to the life of the entire region. For example, what relationship is there with the deputy mayor of Võru, who was appointed governor of the West? I don't know. But I agree with you that the mayor could be from this county, he could be involved in the area and know the problems of local life. I very much hope that this political partyisation will disappear in the case of state agencies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U21	Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U22	Good waitress! The focus of your report is mainly on the rural elders currently in office. But if you use Google to look for middle party country elders, for example, they're still coming out of the past. For example, the notorious Harju County Elder Värner Lootsmann, during whom there were great scandals. Do you think that these central party country elders should have stepped out of the party or stopped their partyhood while they were in the country governor's office?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U23	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U24	I wouldn't think it would be good if the Centre Party, for example, had power and manned the positions of country leaders with members of its party. I don't think that's normal. This does not guarantee balanced development and I do not approve of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U25	My question comes from the question of Aivar Koka. In view of the current popularity ratings, what do you think if the county elders were directly elected, which party do you think would be the most elected country elders? Who do you think would be preferred the most? Secondly, should the county elders be involved mainly in promoting themselves and their party on the ground or, worse still, as Harju County Elder Ülle Rajasalu has shown, using this position to solve personal problems and pay back?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U26	I find it very sad when a country has to make decisions based on its popularity rating. I think that this is what has led the Estonian state to the position in which it monitors how something would be useful to the party, and this is what will be done. It is not rational and does not lead to good results. But yes, the function of the mayor of the country has faded. When I read the county leaves, I see a county elder giving flowers to someone in the pictures, and I don't know who they're handing over these flowers for, either in the name of the state, in the name of the ministry, or in the name of myself. In the Võrumaa newspaper, however, I saw a picture of the mayor and the mayor admiring a cover that they had been able to organize after the well.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U27	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U28	Dear waitress, I, too, have been holding this profession for nearly ten years and I can assure you that compared to 1993, the current country elders do not have tasks in substance. The 600 tasks that Priit Toobal asked about are good on paper, but the reality is different. But what do you think about the need for a county budget? This question is clearly linked to the rural elder's institution. Can the county budget reflect the functions of the local government, I mean waste management, public transport, perhaps upper secondary school education, etc.? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U29	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Tarmo Tamm! I would like a presentation by Peep Aru, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U30	I know, Jaan, you're a very good and long-term farmer. I'm sure your experience is the greatest in this hall. I'm sorry if I insult anyone else, but it seems to me that way. But I think, in the same way, if we lose the function of a rural elder, we should strengthen a unit that would exercise real power in the county and use the money allocated to it. One of the biggest problems is that the whole distribution of money takes place in Tallinn through ministries and politicians in the capital. At the county level, there is no money to implement policies, to invest, to develop the county. There was that money once. Then the governor and I sat around the table and made decisions, and these decisions were observed. In my opinion, the regional level should be strengthened, and to a significant extent. How to strengthen it is the place of thinking. And that's what we're proposing to the Government of the Republic to think about.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U31	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft at its meeting on 28 January. Kaia Sarnet, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Interior and Regional Region also took part in this discussion. As the previous speaker said, the draft did not really excite at the committee meeting and did not lift up passion, it was taken calmly and briefly. I will not repeat what has been said here on behalf of the honourable authors of the draft. That is basically what he said in the Commission. I'll give you the main message from the Undersecretary of the Ministry of the Interior. He said the Government of the Republic wouldn't support the bill. If local authorities were to be stronger and more cooperative, they could be told about the tasks of rural governments. At present, however, most municipalities cannot be given them. County governments are only part of administrative arrangements and since the management system as a whole is being reviewed, there is no reason to withdraw one structure from the whole general system. The Ministry of the Interior is currently mapping the functions of the county governments, as was already evident in the course of answering questions here. They have counted that about 600 missions have to be carried out by rural governments. Of these, 200 are, according to the analysis by the Ministry of the Interior, those which are of a national nature and which cannot be handed over to municipalities or local governments. Transferring them to other state structures would be an option. There are about the same number of tasks that could be transferred to municipalities in the case of the capacity of municipalities or local governments. The issue of financing is certainly not negligible in the transfer of these tasks. The Vice-Chancellor said that it should also be made clear whether local governments are willing to do this work with the money they are currently spending on these tasks. This needs to be clarified in the debates. In summary, the Vice-Chancellor said that, as the whole administrative system is under review by the Regional Minister, a solution must certainly be found to this aspect of territorial and regional governance as well. The main point of the debate was that. There were some specific questions, but not very important. In conclusion, we decided that today the draft could be discussed in this Chamber and that the Commission would propose that the draft be rejected. There were 6 votes to 2 and 1 abstentions in favour of this decision, while 2 members were absent at the time of the decision. I was appointed to convey this Commission's opinion. Consensus, by the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U32	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U33	Dear waitress, When 600 assignments are mentioned for some people or positions, I am convinced that this means that there is really no work to be done there. No one is capable of carrying out 600 tasks. If you're the chairman of the council for a long time, you're gonna run into the county government any way you want. There would be time, I could mention the five most important tasks they really should do: transport, monitoring, etc. Where's the 600 coming from? Instead of talking about 600 tasks, why don't you critically review the 600? I don't think there can actually be more of them than local government tasks in KOKS.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U34	There were several opinions. I don't know how to handle them all from the remote. I'm trying to tell you something from memory. Firstly, starting at the end: there is certainly no overlap between national tasks and self-governing tasks. In part, maybe, but the functions in Estonia are still divided. Second, the mayor alone does not carry out these 600 tasks. He still has an office, as we've noticed, and quite a few specialists. They're gonna do the job. As regards these 600 tasks in particular, when the Regional Minister completes his analysis, it will certainly also be submitted to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It's not a secret from anyone. I received an initial list yesterday, and it was accompanied by an analysis, to whom theoretically it would be possible to allocate these tasks if there were to be a change in the level of governance of the county. But, of course, political agreements and debates are needed for this to happen; this cannot happen over and over again.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U35	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U36	Good waitress! Last June, your party partner, Kristen Michal, then Minister of Justice, came forward with a state reform agenda. One of the proposals was the abolition of the county elders' institution. And this has not only been Minister Michal's plan, but also the plan of Rein Lang, the former Minister of Justice. Michal simply took over this part of Rein Lang's plan for state reform. For what reasons did the Reform Party vote against this bill? Is it true that when the minister leaves, the idea of losing the position of rural elders disappears? You said the Ministry was working on a more comprehensive plan to reform it. In that case, it would have been wise to leave it in the process of our draft and perhaps later to merge these drafts, or at least to discuss the ideas that we have come up with together.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U37	You're the one who told me that everything was so raw. You're taking ideas, but where's the whole picture?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U38	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U39	Good colleague Peep! I think you'll understand it's a dead end. We've been carrying out this administrative and state reform together since 1995 when you were Regional Minister, but we haven't got anywhere. You actually have to admit that everything is behind you as a party in power. When are you going to propose a solution so it can go on?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U40	I'm not proposing a solution on my own. The solutions will eventually come from this hall, but somewhere, of course, the input will come from this hall. As has been said, the Ministry of Justice also deals with the problems of state reform during the new minister's time, and the honourable Minister for Regional Affairs also deals with issues at different levels of administration, including the tasks of rural elders, as to what the actual situation is. At some point in time, a consensus must be reached in the Estonian state about the changes that need to be made at different levels under the leadership of our country, and that is where we are going. But it doesn't work like a fingertip, and everything's fine and done. As for what has happened in 20 years, Tarmo, I am relatively shortsighted at reading the scriptures, but I can see far away. Look at what has happened in Estonia in 20 years. I see no reason to cry.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U41	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U42	It was said earlier that the functions of a rural governor cannot be handed over to the municipalities because the rural governments are very weak. Did the Commission mention how these municipalities could then be strengthened?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U43	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U44	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U45	Will there be or will there not be an administrative reform during the composition of this Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U46	I don't know what you mean by administrative reform. After all, every politician and every individual has his or her opinion on what he or she means by administrative reform. Efforts are being made to reach consensus on various administrative issues and areas requiring changes, but it is difficult to say whether this will be achieved. I am also a long-term politician and have seen the life of Estonia. I would say that it is often much easier to respect what exists than to make changes. I'm in favour of the changes. But right now, I'm not giving you a yes or no answer. Rather, I doubt that two years have remained within the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U47	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U48	Good waitress! You are not only a long-term politician, but I think you are also a very good administration specialist, all the more so because you have also been a regional minister. Your party has tried to treat administrative reform slightly differently during different governments, but I understand that you are not happy with the current minister. At the same time, you were pleased with my successor Reimaa, who allegedly submitted a plan that was suitable for you. You have just said that when the Land Elder Institution was discussed in the Commission, it was found that their tasks cannot be transferred to the local governments. What was the justification? Is it because of the will or the political agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U49	I do not know which minister the honourable questioner means. Who am I not happy with? I think that the Reform Party Group and other politicians of our party are satisfied with all the ministers of the Republic of Estonia. Everyone's doing a good job. But as I said in response to Kajar Lember, we did not discuss how to increase the capacity of municipalities and local governments to take on additional tasks.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U50	Thank you. Please, Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U51	Good colleague! Was the Commission also discussing an alternative, i.e. a reduction in the number of rural governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U52	No, it wasn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U53	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U54	Good waitress! If we look at the last few years, the country has done everything it can to somehow transfer jobs from rural areas to the city. It still seems that way. The average county government employs 30 to 40 employees. Do you think this bill will mean that 500 more jobs will be lost in rural areas, and these people will come here to Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U55	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U56	The state has not done everything to get the jobs transferred to Tallinn. There are quite a few jobs in the counties. That would be a sarcastic answer. But, Aivar, make a calculation: take the beginning of the 1990s and round up the figures! At that time, how many people worked in rural governments, ATKs, and all kinds of other state units? And put together the current figures! I have not done so myself, but I know that many other institutions have emerged in the counties. Overall, the number of people in this sector has probably not decreased significantly. But this inventory could be done for interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U57	Dear waitress, During the discussion of this bill, were local authorities also questioned or asked local government associations about their willingness to accept additional tasks? Have they expressed their opinion and are there any set of tasks that the local government associations would already be willing to take on?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U58	As I said, in addition to the draft waitress, there was one person we listened to: it was the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Interior. In the Ministry of the Interior, under the direction of the Regional Minister, the job is in progress. However, good practice of inclusion means that when discussing all these issues, how regional governance can be organised, municipalities will certainly also say their word. I am absolutely certain that this cooperation exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U59	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U60	I am asking directly about the Commission's working area. As I understood from your speech as well as from the rapporteur on the draft, the debate in the committee was a lukewarm one. Why do you think that was? Was it from the views of the Members of the Commission, or from not taking them, to see that this issue was not of interest? What caused this not to be a lively debate in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U61	I don't know. I guess the subject doesn't ignite.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U62	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U63	Dear waitress, In this case, the fate of the county government as an institution is the decision. Did the Commission also have an opinion on the table from those people whose fate is at stake?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U64	No, it wasn't. I think the respected country elders are so busy with their day-to-day work that they don't think about it. They are conscientious people and do their job well.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U65	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U66	The rapporteur from the Commission. I assume that the Commission will also seek the opinion of the Ministry concerned when discussing one of the draft laws. What was the position of the Justice Department? It was previously stated on one point that the previous Minister of Justice himself came up with a similar proposal. What does the Justice Department think of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U67	We have the Ministry's opinion. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Interior and, since the subject is directly concerned by the Ministry of the Interior, we were limited to this opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U68	Thank you. Kadri Simson, every waitress can ask one question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U69	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U70	No more questions for the waitress. Thanks a lot, Peep Aru! I'm opening negotiations. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U71	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft and today's debate were not very clear on what it was all about. The bill speaks directly of the termination of the county governor's institution. In our discussion, we focused on whether the mayor could be elected or self-governed. We also focused on whether the mayor should be a non-political official. We did not focus very much on the debate on how national territorial administration should be organised in such a way that we have a territorial administrative unit that disappears as such. It's kind of a bit deeper. This is primarily a question of national place management: do we even have institutions in the country that operate across sectors? When we think about the composition of the Government of the Republic, how many ministers do we have who operate across the board? Minister for Regional Affairs, Minister for Justice, Prime Minister, Minister for Finance. If there were no mayor on the ground, there would probably be no institution in the administration of the four ministers with a cross-cutting function. In this sense too, as a civil servant, the mayor of the land certainly has an important role to play. There are, however, quite a number of problems with national site management. There's politicisation, there's centralization of power. The problems are getting worse. Only if we start unraveling this piece of land from the beginning of the liquidation of the country's position, I wonder whether the estate manager's position will be dissolved or whether the county will be wound up as such. I don't want to go down the road to dismantle the counties, but the plan in the draft and the explanatory memorandum didn't work out very well. From the rapporteur, we realized that it was not the county and not the county government that was wanted to be eradicated, but that the title of the county governor was to be replaced by the office manager. Or did I misunderstand? In fact, there are still many direct national functions that the mayor performs on the ground. I don't know if there's 200 or 600, it doesn't matter. I would like to mention, for example, land operations in large numbers, which are purely public land operations in which the rural government exercises State ownership. Or, for example, defending the rights of the state in a court of law. What would be our goal? For example, the Western County Government defended the state's rights in court in about 20 cases per year. But we're a small county government, a Western county government. There are 10 times as many cases in Harju County government. If we take these 500, 600, 700 representation of the state, would it be better for us to concentrate them in one of the legal representative bodies of the state, for example, in Tallinn, or buy this service from law firms? Is there really going to be a continuation of centralisation, total centralisation? The actions currently carried out by ministries through rural governments are proposed to be distributed. There are now about 30 state site management units in each county and about 50 state site management units in the regional centre. We have an awfully fragmented national site management. It is now proposed that we abolish the county government as a public authority and further fragment these functions. I tend to think it doesn't make sense. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U72	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U73	So many national functions. The fact is that rural governments are divided by their nature and the county elders' institution as well. On the one hand, we are talking about the functions of the state, on the other hand, about self-governing tasks. It is clear that these two positions in one organ together are not a very simple association. Are we actually talking about strengthening self-governance at the county level? That's more like it. But if we are talking about strengthening self-governance and suggesting that we hand over the municipal functions of the rural governments to the local governments, should we not start with the liquidation of the position of rural governor, but with the strengthening of the local governments? I have already given an example of Saaremaa in this remote control once, where four municipalities, including the county town of Kuressaare, are not members of the local government union. 60% of the population does not live in the territory of the Self-governing Association. What is the institution to which the municipal functions of the county government are intended to be assigned? Yeah, that would be the right direction, but we should first prepare the place where we want to hand over these tasks. Looks like a little bit of the wrong end has been approached by the whole question. The county, as a territorial unit of administration, will certainly not lose its importance in the future. I think it will also be reversed from regionalisation. The formation of oblasts has already taken place in Estonia, although this period was relatively short. It is likely that this trend will also be reversed if it is seen that neither the state nor the municipality can go too far from the person. The debate on this issue is certainly very important and it is a pity that the Commission has so narrowly addressed it. However, I am also afraid that, in the light of this draft, it may not have been possible to discuss it any further, the draft is very laconical and talks about the termination of the county governor's institution. But it is important to discuss how to ensure a strong county, how to ensure strong regional, self-governance. It is also very likely that we should move towards a two-tier municipality instead. In essence, it is the same proposal made by Mr Chef. We are very much in favour of the county government being directly elected on the ground. Absolutely! This would give the mayor a very strong mandate to deliver on the ground. In essence, it would be a two-tier municipality. I am glad that we think alike in this regard. However, as regards the draft that we have on the table at the moment, and the question that if we want to strengthen the county, whether we are going to start with the liquidation of the country's position, it must be said that this is not the best idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U74	Thank you. Call chair, Tarmo Tamme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U75	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleague Neeme the Great, in your case, it seems that you have recently worked as a country leader. But today's draft Riigikogu decision does not concern what you are talking about. I will read to you again the draft decision of the Riigikogu: 'On the basis of § 154 (1) of the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act, the Riigikogu decides to propose to the Government of the Republic to develop legal bases for the reorganisation of the county government and the abolition of the county administration to balance sectoral and territorial management, which would result in strengthening the cooperation structures of local government units and their competence. ' I haven't said a word about losing land government today from this remote control, and I haven't said it in our bill either. I can also add that it is clear that the legal status of the county development plan and plans is weak. The development plan of the county as a territorial unit does not have the legal status of a comparable weight based on the definition of the strategic development plans. Our proposal is that little or no consideration of the territorial dimension is needed in the design and realisation of vertical sectoral policies. On the basis of the above, it is appropriate to develop the legal bases for ending the county governor's and county government institution and for balancing sectoral and territorial governance by strengthening the cooperation structures of local government units and their competences. These are the proposals we have addressed to the Government of the Republic. It will probably be voted down in this Chamber today, but I hope it gave the government at least some idea that it could be dealt with further because the system is not working.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U76	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. There were no amendments and we will proceed to the final vote on the draft decision. Before that, a presence check must be carried out and we are preparing for it. Ladies and gentlemen, since the draft requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, please do a check-in! 77 members are present, 24 members of the Riigikogu are missing. Let's get to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft 253 of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 17 MPs voted in favour of the draft, 57 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Draft decision 253 has been rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U77	Ladies and gentlemen, let us go to the next item. This is the first reading of draft 358 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Appointing a member of the Supervisory Board for granting contributions from gambling tax' submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I ask for a presentation of Inara Luigas, member of the Chair of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to § 7 (4) of the Gambling Tax Act, the Council of the Riigikogu is formed from the Gambling Tax. The council includes six members of the Riigikogu, one representative of the Ministry of Education and Research, one representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs and one representative of the Ministry of Culture. The Minister of Culture did s. a on 10 January, a proposal to replace a representative of the Ministry of Culture in the Council. Therefore, on 21 January, the Committee on Monetary Affairs submitted a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board for granting grants from the Gambling Tax. The decision removes Siim Sukles (his mandate as Chancellor of the Ministry of Culture ended on 31 December 2012) from the Council and appoints the current Chancellor Paavo Nõgene as the new representative of the Ministry of Culture in the Council for the award of grants from the Gambling Tax. No proposals were submitted within the deadline for amendments. At its meeting on 28 January, the Committee on Finance decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the Plenary Session by 12 February and put to the final vote. These decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U79	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Inara Luigas. Any requests? No calls, no negotiations. As no amendments to the draft have been received, we will proceed to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote to the final vote on the Riigikogu's decision'Appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board for granting grants from the Gambling Tax' of the Riigikogu 358. Please take a stand and vote. 66 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, there was no one against, one person was impartial. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U80	Today's third item is the second reading of Bill 348 of the Act amending the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation by Kalev Eagle, a member of the Rural Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U81	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the draft law amending the Law on the implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic at its regular meeting on 29 January. The initiator was represented by Mai Talvik, Head of the Agricultural Market Management Department of the Ministry of Agriculture. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees. In cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and taking into account the opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, the Rural Affairs Committee has prepared two amendments. Both are technical. The first amendment clarifies the use of the word 'transition allowance' for the sake of harmonisation and better comprehension of the complete text which will enter into force as a result of the amendment of the law. The second amendment provides for 28 February 2013 at the time of the entry into force of the Act. This is necessary to ensure that, as from 1 March, the ARIA starts receiving applications for animal support and that the draft provides a legal basis for this. In normal enforcement, there is a risk of being a few days late. The Committee on Rural Affairs took the following decisions: to send a draft to the agenda of the 348 plenary sessions by today, 12 February 2013, to propose the termination of the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to send the draft to third reading by 14 February and then to adopt it as a law. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-12_U82	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Kalev Eagle! Would you like to negotiate? There's no call. Let us examine the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Rural Affairs, and the lead committee has taken full account of it. The second amendment is also from the Committee on Rural Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is over. Today's agenda is exhausted. Thank you, everyone, and have a good day. Closure of the sitting at 11.03 a.m.
