ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start today's briefing and do the presence check first. 27 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 74 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have five registered questions, so on the spot, two quick-fingered questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U2	The first question is Mr Tarmo Tammelt to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U3	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! In front of me is the part of the overview of the National Audit Office that concerns local governments and the part of local government taxes. As we know, there is little tax left on the local government to increase its income. Local authorities face a serious problem of how to deal with this revenue base. But the National Audit Office has an interesting proposal: could local governments not receive a share of the income of companies located on their territory in order to increase the interest of local authorities in doing business? How do you look at it, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U4	Thank you. Unfortunately, today I am as much informed of the National Audit Office's report as I was yesterday. I still haven't been able to process this material. The proposal made by the National Audit Office, as I hear through you, is not new in itself. This has repeatedly been the subject of our electoral debates. My party has also proposed the idea of dividing personal income tax into two, one on the basis of where the person lives, and the other on the basis of where the person works. There have also been proposals to distribute corporate income tax between the local government and the state. These proposals have been thoroughly analysed and generally found to be significantly higher than the incentives or the demographic effect of the increase in the administrative burden involved in their implementation. Thus, the analyses carried out so far have confirmed that there is no point in dividing personal income tax between the place of work and place of residence or between the local government and the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U5	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U6	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! The National Audit Office also complains that local governments do not have any free land to offer businesses to start a business. The state gives land to the municipalities quite relentlessly. How can it be speeded up and made effective? After all, every business is welcome for us; we should all be out for a common goal so that entrepreneurs can start operating.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U7	Thank you. Where local authorities have applied for free land in order to achieve the objectives laid down by law to the property of the local government, the government has generally also received the application for municipalisation of the land. I am saying that it is not now a very rule in Europe that local authorities always have free land for new entrepreneurs and that this is the only way to promote entrepreneurship in the European Union, especially in the old Member States. It can be assumed that land ownership is already well established in other parts of the world, elsewhere in Europe, western Europe in particular, for decades and hundreds of years, and that an entrepreneur can buy it from a local authority, if the local authority has free land, but in general the company still acquires the inputs needed to produce at market prices. The municipality must create the conditions, legal and utilities to enable the undertaking to operate well.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U8	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U9	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! One of the fastest ways in which the municipal income base could be improved and the municipal roads could be slightly driven would be to allocate 15% of the fuel excise duty to the municipalities instead of 10%. What is the obstacle to the fact that this percentage cannot be changed between the state and local authorities? You can see for yourself that there really isn't a city where all the streets are okay, and you don't know where the streets are okay. Why is there such a contrast between the state and local authorities? There's not enough local government revenue base to keep you in order.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U10	Thank you. Fuel excise funds are distributed between the State and local roads, based on very thorough considerations. The distribution cannot necessarily be based solely on the number of road kilometres, the availability of roads must also be based on the traffic frequency of one, the other or the third. A very thorough analysis has led to the finding that most excise duties on fuel go to maintenance, maintenance, construction and 10% to maintain local roads. This is basically a place of decision-making how effectively we want to use taxpayers' funds. According to the current distribution, the maximum number of users will be part of this fuel excise money. If this proportion is changed, there will certainly be fewer beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U11	We will now proceed with the issues registered on the ground. Two questions, like I said. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U12	Thank you. Prime Minister! The same issues that were currently being dealt with here could perhaps be resolved with some or some of the other content if an administrative reform had been carried out in Estonia. You haven't spoken about this in a long time. Perhaps with a few sentences, you will say at what stage of the administrative reform we now have, I mean, on the issue of the merger of municipalities. I haven't heard your party and the Prime Minister's position in a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U13	You are currently talking about an administrative-territorial reform, which, according to a simplified understanding in Estonia, means a forced merger of local governments. I am pretty sure that even those who are currently planning an administrative-territorial reform based on the model of centres of attraction are not the first priority, not the compulsory merger of municipalities. My views, my views on the administrative division of Estonia, are probably very well known to you. You know that I consider it the most important task of the local government to balance the central power, i.e. the task of defending democracy. Local government, based on a strong local identity, must balance the central authority. As such, the role of local authorities in the democratic regime in Europe has been defined for the last 150 years. For some reason, we sometimes dominate this aspect of the provision of services and forget why the principle of autonomy of local government has been written into our constitution. In principle, banks and companies could also provide services. Our services are so standardised, so precisely regulated that in my view it is not very important who provides specific services. As we know, very many local authorities buy in services from the private sector and the actual service provider is the private sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U14	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U15	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Today, oil shale municipalities are known to be part of the oil shale resource tax. The new Act of the National Audit Office blames the government or proposes that oil shale be taxed from the other end, an oil tax should be imposed. Of course, I don't think it's right. It's like you can't eat a sausage from two ends at once. This resource tax has been raised and will continue to be raised. Two-way taxation will certainly make it more difficult to deal with the situation. What is your position: will you support the tax on oil shale oil?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U16	Thank you. My opinion is not only my opinion, but we have dealt with it in the study. In time, we have decided to increase the environmental charges for oil shale use and to give up additional taxation on oil shale oil, as additional taxation on oil shale oil would essentially demotivate the production of products that are of maximum benefit from oil shale. The government's tax policy cannot be aimed at stimulating the most primitive use of natural resources. We have been discussing the subject and we have shaped our position, which does not, of course, mean that we are not prepared to revisit it if there are in-depth arguments for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U18	The next question is from my colleague, Karel Rüütel, to the Minister for the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimud. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I held a debate this summer on the situation of fur farms. At this joint meeting of a large number of interest groups, it was found that what is happening on our fur farms is, in any case, damaging to our natural environment and worrying. In replying to our inquiry recently, you said that the situation is embarrassing, especially because three farms operate without a licence. Today I have the paper in my hand where I can see that the Environmental Board wants to issue a permit for Karjaküla farm without prior assessment of the environmental impact. Are you sure everything's okay on Karjaküla's farm and they can be licensed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U20	Thank you. It is, of course, a pleasure to see that there has been some expert knowledge of the Riigikogu, and even at such a level that the draft permits are intended to be issued on this very large level. Of course, before any authorisation is granted, we must make sure that all the conditions and requirements laid down in laws and regulations, both in government regulations and in ministerial regulations, are met. If there are reasons to believe, as well as on-the-spot checks, that some of the conditions laid down are not met, the authorisation cannot be issued. If everything meets the requirements and all the conditions are met, then the situation is different.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U21	Please, Mr Karel Rüütel, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U22	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have a study in my hands that dates back to 2010. It is here that the main shortage of manure treatment at Karjaküla farm is too rare to collect manure under cages, the lack of suitable coating under cages, and the non-compliant storage of manure, i.e. there is no manure storage on this farm, there is no collection of manure, which poses quite serious environmental risks. In view of the low level of protection of groundwater in the area, the large number of livestock units and the number of animals, the small distance from the bear farm, the location of the farm on the shore of the Keila River, which is one of the most polluted rivers in Estonia, and the slope of the surface relief in the direction of the river, there is a need to pay close attention to manure management. That was the 2010 information. As far as I know, the situation has not changed. Do you think such a company can be granted permission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U23	Thank you. To be honest, I do not think that such nuances are the most appropriate or reasonable approach to Parliament's Question Time. Since you are making statements on the paper from three years ago, which is only in front of you, it is beautifully difficult to reply immediately on the individual details. Once again, no permit can be issued or issued until there is a conviction that the company meets all the requirements, no matter what sector it is active in. As long as there are reasons to believe that the requirements are not met and the activities still do not comply, the authorisation cannot be issued.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U24	Please, Mr Karel Rüütel, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U25	Thank you. In fact, already in the summer there was information that there were very serious problems. I also have a letter from Keila rural municipality, which draws them to the attention of the Environmental Board. The specific letter states that there is no manure storage that meets the requirements of the Water Act. The Keila municipality government has repeatedly pointed out that these problems need to be resolved. Until now, no proper manure storage has started, but the farm is still expected to be authorised, provided that at one point they start to establish a manure storage facility for the following year. There are about 73000 fur animals in this breeding. How do you comment that the issue of authorisation has been resolved, but the problem has not been resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U26	Thank you. I repeat, for the third time, that the requirements must be met. It is not possible at all to take a "flexibility" or "strengthening" approach to compliance. If the requirements are laid down in the regulations, they must be complied with. As long as the company does not meet the requirements, the permit cannot be issued. I can't even see that we're somehow opposite or different views. Of course, there are requirements in order to comply with them and, if the requirements are not met, no one can expect to be granted a permit to operate without complying with the requirements. Requirements are set to protect both the environment and the quality of life and the living situation of the surrounding people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U27	Mr Kalvi Tough, please, a matter registered on the spot!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We know the problems of our food producers, our farmers, and we also know that large farms, if they have more than 400 livestock units in a barn, must have complex permits. Researchers at Tartu University of Life Sciences have pointed out that one mink equals 0.03 livestock units. If we look at an AS Baltic Bearskin farm with almost 38,000 animals, it would be like a farm with almost 1000 cattle. Should they have a complex permit?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U29	Thank you. The requirements for farmed mints and raccoon dogs are laid down in the 2008 Regulation. I think it is reasonable that we do not deal with matters here retroactively, or even with the current situation, but really think about what we discussed here a few weeks ago in connection with a single inquiry together. This is primarily about the future. The biggest problem with some farms is not only that they do not meet the requirements, that they do not meet the conditions for authorisation, but that there is no way to ensure that there is actually a 100% guarantee that no one can get out of the farm or harm the European mink population and the nesting birds. This is one of the most serious problems, which is why there is also a legislative amendment in preparation. Its aim is to stop farming in Estonia at one point after a sufficiently long notice or adaptation period. I think this is a change that is sensible and necessary, especially for conservation reasons. But just as we said here together a few weeks ago, the period of notice, the period of adjustment given to companies, must be reasonable and long enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U30	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Küttt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U31	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I certainly do not consider myself an expert in any kind of education or management, but I have a question from today's debate and from answering questions. There is probably no such situation anywhere, certainly not in the social sphere, as has been the case here. You have said three times that no authorisation will be granted if the requirements are not met. How is it possible that such establishments, such farms, work without permission at all? I do not think there is any other form of enterprise in which you can work without permission or, if working, for a very short period of time, because you will be stopped if you do not have a permit.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U32	Thank you. Once again, I can agree with you and say that for me too, this situation is completely unacceptable and beautiful incomprehensible. But as a member of the legislative assembly, you are certainly aware that the boundaries and frameworks in which environmental protection inspectors can operate have been provided by law. The law currently in force states the conditions under which an environmental protection inspector can suspend operations that do not comply with the requirements. It's a limited list. The law states that it is right to do so if action threatens the life, health, or property of a person. This list is a beautiful soft one. In these specific situations, where mints have indeed been farmed for years, it is simply not possible to implement this provision of law. However, as I said a few weeks ago, it is my job to make such a relatively absurd situation impossible in the future so that we do not have to put up with such a situation in the future. To this end, with your help, we have already changed the law so that, from 1 May of this year, it will be possible to implement an administrative sentence and a penalty of up to EUR 32000. This has been an important change. It can also be said that, since the introduction of this amendment into the law, the parties involved have so far acted illegally and completely uncontrollable, very forcefully and very quickly, and have changed their behaviour in farms where practically no conditions have been met so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U33	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U34	The next question is for my colleague, Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, the Minister of Agriculture, to Mrs Tuksole. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, Rail Baltic is definitely a welcome and economically useful object for Estonia. Sadly, as specialists say, this linear object passes through several territories with valuable agricultural masses. Farmers have expressed their concern about this project and the media have also reflected it. I would like to know how you feel about this situation as Minister for Agriculture and whether you are already handing out your hand to farmers in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U36	Thank you for your question. Yes, I, too, have had several meetings with farmers, with representatives of agricultural organisations who have visited me separately to complain about their problems and concerns and to make proposals. I have also met specific farmers, landowners and farmers, whose land remains or may remain on potential Rail Baltic routes, because there are several possible options for considering and planning. Of course, they are not opposed to the Rail Baltic route and the construction of this new railway, but they would also like to be considered and, on the basis of the methodology, their potential losses and effects on land improvement systems, land use and farms would also be taken into consideration fairly. I have been discussing this with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, who has jurisdiction over this issue. We have said that if an impact assessment is carried out, if ex-ante assessments are carried out, the impact on land improvement systems, land use and farms would be taken into account and done on the basis of a fair methodology. I believe that if there is no such methodology in Estonia, it will be found outside Estonia. This experience, where high-speed railways are built across agricultural land and across agricultural land, exists in other European countries. So I am an optimist, and I think that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has taken these signals seriously, and that's what counts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U37	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, I agree with your answer that such costs must be taken into account. But in the Riigikogu there is a law amending the Rail Act, the Emergency Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, which reduces the width of the rail protection zone from 50 metres to 30 metres everywhere. The explanatory memorandum to the draft act has honestly acknowledged that a narrower railway protection zone will be established in connection with the development of the Rail Baltic project. Why does the state try to trim Estonian farmers at all costs, whose land lies in the way of the coming railway line?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U39	Thank you. I hope this change doesn't cut the farmer now. This law certainly does not have that purpose in itself. It is probably a proposal from experts, experts and a decision that there is no need for such a broad corridor. But if the Riigikogu is convinced that it should be 50 metres instead of 30 meters, then it is also in the hands of the Riigikogu. The law is in the process and this zone can certainly be extended. But I believe that the decisions why exactly this has been done have still been considered and designed. This certainly has not been done in any way to trim a farmer, because if agricultural land is between 30 and 50 metres and can be managed, then agricultural activity is certainly possible there. I'm not quite the right person, an expert to say how wide this line zone has to be, 40, 50 or 60 meters, but I trust specialists here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U40	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, The main thing is that an active farmer would then be rewarded for his land and compensated for the loss of income. Since you hinted that you had spoken about this at government level or at least with your colleagues, with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, and perhaps with the Minister for the Environment, who is sitting next to you today, in what order do you think this compensation could be? Is the country ready to compensate farmers for these costs, so to speak, as much as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U42	Thank you. I do not want to speculate here on what this compensation could be like. This is certainly very different for different producers, it is individual. One thing is that we take into account the specific cost and costs of a specific plot of land or of a land improvement system that needs conversion. What is quite different is that we begin to consider the loss of income or, for example, the additional costs that may arise when the route is carried out from the agricultural array, where, for example, the feed has to be transported further away or the animals have to be herded differently, etc. These costs are individual to every farmer, and I cannot say anything about their size here. Is there compensation within the maximum range? In my opinion, compensation should be made on a fair scale, taking into account real value and real costs. This must be based on a reliable methodology and it is important that this methodology-based calculation be fair so that all parties can trust it, understand it. If compensation has been calculated on the basis of such a methodology, I think it is also fair. But I would also like to add that the whole route certainly takes account of the fact that these costs are minimal for society as a whole. It is certainly the kind of route where possible expenditure on construction, land purchase and expropriation, or whatever, would be minimal. So this is also taken into account, not just how to compensate for loss of income or additional costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U43	We will now proceed with the issues registered on the ground. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U44	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! I will return to the previous item on our agenda with my question. I ask you this question: would it not be wiser to use land under fur farms as a farmland? In Estonia, fur animals have been grown on farms for 70 years and relatively unsuccessfully. These farms haven't really worked out much, and economically, they're all fried to the bottom. Can't you put Keit Pentus backs together and put an end to this pointless activity so that this country can start farming?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U45	Thank you. Estonia is a democratic state; we still have to follow the law here. So if we decide to ban the rearing of fur animals in Estonia at all, such proposals have also been made, and there are some countries in the European Union where the rearing of fur animals is prohibited, however, in most countries it is allowed and is an industry, then it must certainly be based on law. I think we have these discussions ahead of us. These discussions have started, as I said, there have also been discussions in the Ministry of Agriculture, and we have also been invited to ban this activity. We have not come this far today, we have not come before Parliament with this proposal, but it is not excluded that in some part, for some time, this activity will be restricted until it is completely banned. When we get to that, it's gonna be really hard for me to say today. As I said, this is also the subject of debate in other countries of the European Union, this has been a very delicate issue, but in most Member States of the European Union, bear farming is still allowed. So maybe at some point, my colleague and I will put our backs together and get to what you just asked for.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U46	Please, Mr Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Certainly, the price of land determined on a regular basis contributes to the use of agricultural land in agricultural production to some extent. My question is this: have you and your coalition partners, the Minister for the Environment sitting next to you and the Prime Minister, at government level, also discussed the fact that the last regular land valuation was in 2001? When will the next land assessment take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U48	Thank you. We've been over this. Once, when land laws were developed in Estonia following the land reform, it was decided that land would be assessed regularly. It has not been done for a long time now. As far as I know, the Land Board and the Ministry of the Environment are currently developing new bases for assessing the value of the land so that it is known to all of us on an ongoing and clear basis. If these new bases are developed, then there will certainly be a new evaluation of the countries. So the County Department is working on it. I can't tell you the deadline for the new regime to reach the government, maybe the Minister of the Environment can give you a more precise answer here, but this is the procedure being developed and we have discussed it in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U49	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U50	Let's go to the next question. Mr Tuus-Laul has a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U51	Very honourable Prime Minister! My question concerns the annual review of the National Audit Office and a subject such as the performance of the Estonian people. Now we have already had a second Auditor General coming to the same conclusion on the basis of facts and figures: the people of Estonia live worse than the state and the economic success, the proper finances and the prosperity of the state have not really reached the people. Auditor General Karis describes how our prices are rising faster than those of other countries, but the purchasing power of people is much worse than in other European countries, while the pension is increasing in percentage, the increase in money is not noticed because the price increase is so rapid, and the income support must take twice as many people as before the crisis. You're the one who's gonna show it all to success. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U52	Yes, you have an advantage over me, you have read this report. I have answered one question on European Union issues, and I have seen that in the press this theme development based on online media headlines has been dealt with much more deeply. The compilation has resulted in a discussion between me and the Auditor General, which was certainly not my brief comment. Of course, it is not true that Estonia's success, which has reached the country, has not reached the person. To some extent, it can be accepted that the crisis has reached the country, but the crisis has not reached the people of the country, because if the country is well prepared for the crisis, it has collected reserves as a buffer and can use them to the extent that the crisis does not reach the citizen so painfully immediately. Perhaps the opposite argument that the country is successful may be true in some kind of approximation, but the citizen has not succeeded, even though I would refrain from opposing the state and its citizens. So where the country put the money, I could ask you exactly as you ask me. Did he steal who stole it when he's gotten to the country, but he hasn't gotten to the citizen? Well, let's find the country's success that hasn't gotten to the citizens. For me, this is a completely unacceptable contrast between the country and the citizens. The people have created this country. I'd rather put an equal sign between them than opposite them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U53	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U54	Thank you. The Auditor General has relied on very precise figures and measurements and indicators of the European Statistical Office. So he's got reason to say that. And when you ask people, it's not good to get by. If we're still doing quite well, why, during your reign, very, very many people have left here, between 80,000 and 100,000, we don't know exactly. Rural areas are running out of people, bus traffic is gone, etc. I'm not going to talk about post offices again. More than half of the unemployed are long-term unemployed. The European Commission has also drawn attention to this. With regard to the tax burden, we know that we are at the forefront of consumption taxes. Why do you think our people are not doing well, and why has the National Audit Office highlighted this issue in a way that you do not like?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U55	Thank you. Surely people would be much worse off if the country had not achieved its success, one can be sure of that. It's a good thing the country's doing well. I hope that people will soon sense that the good course of the country will literally mean the well-being of the citizens. We bring comparisons from Europe. Eurostat does not confirm people's self-esteem, Eurostat objectively compares national performances in terms of financial parameters. In those countries where public debt is very high, where economic growth is currently very low, citizens do well. This is confirmed by unemployment figures. In crisis countries, programme countries, unemployment is very high, in two countries even higher than 25%. In some Member States of the European Union, people pay very large sums of money to pay interest on loans taken earlier by the government. In the case of a resident, these interest rates may even be EUR 1500. The average Estonian person pays 21 euros per year to service government debts. That is what I think is about Estonia's success, which is felt for every person. If an Estonian person were to pay 1,000 euros or 860 euros for mere interest, like an average citizen of the European Union, then the state would also be in a bad state for every citizen.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U56	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U57	Thank you. I really strongly recommend working through this material, with good data and advice. I listened yesterday in this Chamber to the way you responded, you might say, quite arrogant people who tried to talk about it. You said that the National Audit Office has assigned us somewhere in the mud and that we are going down somewhere in a row. No, he's just pointing out what he should do. We have fewer working hands, fewer working-age people. In the other direction, as we know, the number of older people is increasing; in 40 years, the number of working age will fall by about 20%. The National Audit Office also proposes possible solutions for bringing more work hands and dealing with fewer exodus and more taxes. I'm asking you, have you thought in the long run how we should cope better?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U58	Thank you. Well, let's come back to yesterday. I argued on-line at the level of the headlines, and I also assured you that I have not read the report myself. What did those headlines say? The titles claimed that Estonia's purchasing power, living standards, GDP per capita has not reached pre-crisis levels. As we are talking about 2012 it is possible to control it very quickly. Eurostat confirms that Estonia's gross domestic product per capita exceeded the maximum level before the crisis in 2012. I have not read it in the National Audit Office's report, but if the newspapers or their online publications are telling the truth, then old data was simply used. On 30 October, Eurostat has adjusted the Member States' gross domestic product data and according to them, Estonia has exceeded its pre-crisis level in 2012. The argument that Lithuania missed us last year does not hold true. Lithuania is still behind us. That's what I was arguing about yesterday. In the same way, I do not understand the desire to equalise our potential pension funds with the resources that come from the social security contribution. This approach is wrong! This has never been the case in the Republic of Estonia and it will probably never be. We pay out pensions according to the index, and I find any intimidation of pensioners inappropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U59	Now the questions registered on the spot. Colleagues Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U60	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Today there is another conference of social work and social workers in Tallinn, which has already taken place in several years. More than 300 specialists and people working in the social field speak about today's situation and people's livelihood. Having communicated with these people and done this work myself, I can assure you that Eurostat shows one thing, but the people who turn to the local authorities are talking about you. As far as the National Audit Office is concerned, neither the MPs have had it any longer than you have. It would probably be appropriate to read the report, not to answer that you have not read it. But my question is, why do you always, when the question is asked, underestimate the questioner and make him look like a fool? I am very pessimistic about such answers, even though I am by nature an optimistic person. Why can't you ask or make suggestions as to why you humiliate the questioner and ridicule him?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U61	I'm sure you can ask and make suggestions. However, if you say, in essence, that Eurostat is lying, you know the truth, in your question or in your speech, I cannot agree in any way with that statement. I trust Eurostat. The Germans have the saying "Einma ist keinmal" that you can talk to one person, another person, and also a third person, but if you want to find out what public opinion is or if you want to set out some parameters, you will still do a much more thorough job. Therefore, the statistics provided by Eurostat are certainly far more reliable than the very occasional personal experience. It is worth believing in other people's work and hard- produced information. It is worth trusting Eurostat.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U62	Now the last issue registered on the spot. Mr Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U63	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister! It is, of course, very difficult to convert the poor performance of the Estonian people into a percentage so that they can speak the same language to you. But I still found a few percentages. Eesti Pank has constantly published data on Estonia's foreign debt and the IMF has also published these figures. I did not find any recent data at the moment, but in 2009 the IMF claimed that Estonia's external debt burden was 132% of GDP. When we talked about these figures here with Minister Ligi, he said that it is not a debt of the Estonian state, it is a debt of the private sector. I very much liked your logic that the Estonian state and the Estonian people go hand in hand, that they are one and that there must be an equal sign between them. Which way does this foreign debt of 132% now show, state or nation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U64	The state is not just a government sector. The debt burden of the Estonian government is the smallest in the European Union, 9.9% of our gross domestic product. Certainly, the very low debt burden of the government sector is a very good advert for the whole country. The private sector has taken on much more debts than the local governments and central government of Estonia. However, this very low debt burden on central and local governments, or government, also has a positive impact on people who, for example, have acquired their housing with credit. Thanks to the very low public debt ratio, the interest rate is much lower for the private sector than in those countries where the public debt ratio is very high. The low debt burden of the government sector is certainly positive for all Estonian residents. I can also confirm that, in comparison with the European Union, a correlation can be found that economic growth is faster in those countries where the public debt burden is lower, rather than, as it is customary to think, if debt is taken, it will accelerate economic growth. The correlation, which can be seen in comparison with the Member States of the European Union, confirms precisely the opposite. Secondly, I can confirm that, if we look for a correlation between unemployment and public debt, this correlation confirms that unemployment is higher in those Member States where public debt is high. In countries with lower government debt, unemployment is also lower.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U65	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue. If there's time, you can ask more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U66	Last registered question. Mr Vakral is a question for the Minister for the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimud. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Yesterday, we visited Muuga harbour with the transit and logistics connection of the Riigikogu and we witnessed again the import of garbage from Finland, Great Britain and Ireland by the Iru waste power plant of Eesti Energia. In order to keep the plant running, it is necessary to bring at least 20,000 tons of garbage per year by ships and to drive here into the oven. For each tonne in the oven, 250 kilograms of ash and 25 kilograms of hazardous waste are generated. Thus, one in four tons is actually simply disposed of as ash into the landfill of Riverlähtme. Here's a question for you. Minister for the Environment, can you explain how it is possible that none of the waste management plans has foreseen the incineration of waste in this amount, but at the same time, 105 million euros will be invested and a waste incineration plant so powerful will be set up that the local waste will not continue and this waste will actually have to be brought to Estonia from abroad?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U68	Thank you. How it is possible that plans made years ago could not foresee such an emerging capacity, it is quite difficult to comment afterwards. With these very long-term plans, it happens from time to time that not all developments can be predicted very accurately. As far as the incineration of waste is concerned, of course, it must be said that the next year, the more Estonian people have started to recycle waste and are looking for ways to give them a new life instead of throwing away waste or surplus. This is certainly a very positive trend in itself. As far as mass incineration is concerned, mass incineration should not replace the treatment of waste that is already being sorted, it is collected by type, but used for waste that would otherwise be simply transported to a landfill that would otherwise be simply deposited. So in this option, it can be said that it is very clear to mass incineration in Estonia too, say, the perspective, our niche, but we are still moving very well towards the goal of at least half of the waste generated in Estonia to be recovered by 2020. In this respect, I do not see that the incineration of waste could, or should in any way, prevent the achievement of this objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U69	Please, Mr Vakra, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U70	As we know, the burning of this foreign waste is also financially supported by the Estonian state. On the other hand, I agree with you that this is not a green solution, although, for example, Minister for Economic Affairs Juhan Parts has repeatedly tried to make it clear to me in this Chamber that burning garbage is a green solution. I have this question: do you not think that Iru's hunger for garbage and, at the same time, the low-cost price, through subsidies, will have no economic interest in thinking and acting environmentally-friendly, i.e. sorting and recycling these waste in the future? On the contrary, the Estonian person gets lazy, sloppy and throws everything into the oven, Irus drives everything into the oven and, in fact, we cannot talk about environmentally conscious thinking and the green idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U71	Thank you. First of all, I am forced to adjust you to the fact that the Estonian taxpayer will not pay renewable energy support in the key to renewable energy when it comes to burning waste. What is supported is co-production regardless of the type of fuel, and not purely and literally the incineration of waste. Discuss and argue whether and how green the mass incineration of waste is in itself. One nuance is that the energy generated by the mass incineration of waste replaces the energy otherwise generated by fossil fuels in large quantities, and this nuance is certainly important. But again, I agree with your approach that mass incineration must not become the type of waste management that would really neglect the recovery and sorting of waste by type. I think the awareness of the Estonian people is growing from year to year, not the other way around. Mass incineration is one of the alternatives and an alternative, in particular in the niche concerning the management of waste that is left over from sorting to separate collection. He can't, he can't claim, and frankly, he doesn't claim to replace collection and sorting by species.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U72	Please, Mr Vakra, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U73	Indeed, waste incineration is, as we know, only one step above landfilling in the waste hierarchy, and, in terms of economic and energy saving, recovery is on average 3 to 5 times more beneficial than an empty furnace of waste. At the same time, we know that any by-product of combustion is greenhouse gases released into the air through the chimney. In the case of this waste incineration plant, the inhabitants of the surrounding area have also referred to this and repeatedly expressed their concern. As a whole and in view of the future, should the Estonian state not pay more attention to environmental conservation from this point of view and review its policy of kilning waste?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U74	Thank you. Waste incineration has very stringent environmental protection requirements and conditions that must be met, and not only must be met, but also monitored on an ongoing basis. If you have been subjected to any complaints or complaints and there are reasonable grounds to believe that these claims are being violated, then this must definitely be reported separately. It shall be continuously monitored and monitored to ensure that all requirements for air cleanliness and cleaning equipment are met, otherwise it may not be. But I say once again that, as long as there is a waste hierarchy in Estonia, where waste recycling is preferred, waste recovery is first and foremost, waste prevention is at all, there is no reason to believe that incineration would replace waste sorting and collection by type. On the contrary, all data confirm that people are becoming increasingly aware and sorting and collection by species are becoming increasingly popular. The only part of the garbage that's gonna get to the burn is the one that would have gone to the dump. If we compare these two to each other, which is more reasonable, whether to simply pile up the waste or to burn up the waste and produce energy, then it is certainly more reasonable to burn if all environmental protection requirements are respected.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U75	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. I will conclude on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, Our Question Time is over. Thank you for asking questions, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Prime Minister and Members of the Government, for your answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U76	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, there is the opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. I see you don't want to do that. I'll give you some messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending and repealing the laws initiated on 4 November, commission of the Legal Affairs Committee; second, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act, initiated on 4 November, commission of the Constitutional Commission; thirdly, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, initiated on 4 November, Committee on Social Affairs; fourthly, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Unions, initiated on 4 November, and related amendments to other laws, Lead Committee on Culture; Fifth, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion, initiated on 4 November by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan, Committee on Monetary Affairs; Sixth, in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Public Information Act, the Electronic Communications Act and the Emergency Act, initiated on 4 November, the Economic Commission; seventhly, the Government of the Republic. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu on "Accepting Estonia based on Knowledge" of the Estonian strategy for research and development and innovation 2014 was submitted on 4 November, the leading committee of the Committee on Culture; 8th, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on a peace-building mission in Afghanistan" submitted on 4 November, lead committee in the National Defence Committee; ninth, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria" submitted on 4 November, lead committee a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali" submitted on 4 November, Lead Commission of the National Defence Commission; 11th in the Government of the Republic. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on a peace-building mission in Kosovo" submitted on 4 November, lead committee in the National Defence Committee; by the 12th, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the composition of NATO's response forces," presented on 4 November, the leading committee of the National Defence Committee; 13th, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the work of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or the European Union's international military headquarters," presented on 4 November, the leading committee of the National Defence Committee. I have forwarded the questioning of the members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? I will now clarify the agenda. Today we will continue with yesterday's agenda, which we have not discussed. The first discussion of item 2 of yesterday's agenda is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund submitted by the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu. Agenda items 3 to 6 of yesterday's sitting have been transferred to the agenda of today's sitting as items 2 to 5. On today's agenda item No 8, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on the grant of international protection to an alien initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws, the Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiator in place of the Minister of Internal Affairs, Ken-Marti Vaher. On today's agenda item No 16, which is the first reading of the draft State Budget Act 513 initiated by the Government of the Republic, Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, will make a presentation on behalf of the commission. On today's agenda item No 17, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the 2013 State Budget Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, 514 will be presented by Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, on behalf of the commission. So much for today, ladies and gentlemen, has changed today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U77	We will begin today's debate on the first item on the agenda, we will continue to read the first 510 of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund submitted by the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu. Yesterday we reached the conclusion of the negotiations. As no amendments to draft 510 were tabled, we are now going to have a final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote to the final vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund, submitted by the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, 510. Please vote! 46 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 36 against and no abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U78	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act initiated by the member of the Riigikogu, Tõnis Palts. A colleague of a member of the Riigikogu, Tõnis Paltsu, will be a waitress for the speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U79	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, To make it interesting, in this speech, I'm gonna say everything I think about coalition mates. I expect people to stay in the hall. But to the point! Today, at first reading, there is a law aimed at banning the installation of large wind generators that have an impact on the development of our islands, especially tourism. This ban would not have any negative effect on the green lifestyle or extend to small self-installed wind turbines. Let it also be mentioned immediately that meeting the target percentage of renewable energy through wind energy is the most harmful way of doing so. For Estonia as a whole, it would be much more useful in macroeconomic terms if the targets for the share of renewable energy were achieved by cutting wood power plants. This means that every step that has been taken back from the fans of wind energy will be beneficial for the Estonian economy as a whole. The only sustainable industry of our islands is tourism. I stress that the only sustainable industry, not the biggest one, is. In the broadest sense, this is because keeping summer homes and resting with relatives in the islands is actually a branch of the recreative economy. All other sectors of the economy have advantages over the islands by operating on the continent, thanks to better access. It is therefore vital to maintain tourism and contribute to its development. It creates jobs on the ground and gives citizens the opportunity to make money. Large electrical winds are artificial objects that may be suitable for industrial landscapes, but certainly not for Estonian recreational areas with beautiful nature. This view is generally not contested. At the same time, the influence of business interest groups is seen even for members of the Riigikogu, which came out during the proceedings of the draft law in the Committee on the Environment. The members of the Riigikogu cannot be so demagogic without having an outside influence or standing up for someone's interests. Let me give you some examples. It is said that this restriction does not need to be laid down by law; it can be regulated by decisions taken by local authorities. As a result of such local government regulation, after the "smart" decision of the Kaarma Municipality Government, wind generators have emerged from one of the best resting areas of Saaremaa near Mändjala, which overshadow beautiful natural views of Mändjala beach. This shows that, unfortunately, such matters cannot be regulated by decisions taken by local authorities. When certain circumstances coincide, the parish leaders are also willing to sell their mother to the devil. It is said that such a provision would not be compatible with the Nature Conservation Act. Excuse me, according to some of the theoretical and formal features you've been looking for, which are used here as arguments, it would be even less appropriate for other laws. Such an argument is merely a lobby of investors in order to prevent the imposition of a restriction. After all, we are fighting against natural pollution with this proposal, and we are also trying to achieve regional policy objectives. Nature is not a matter of itself that is protected, nature is still protected with human interests in mind and in order to prevent the foolishness of human activity. I'll ask you where this ban is going if we want to protect nature. One argument is that by analogy large wind generators should be banned everywhere in Estonia, not just on islands. Why, then, can Ida-Viru County be further littered? Well, that doesn't make any sense. Production of wind energy is the most pointless production of energy in Estonia. We do not create jobs with it, and we pay for it so that someone can increase their property at the cost of rendering Estonian nature. If wind generators are to be built somewhere, then really where tourism is not a sustainable industry. We cannot view Virumaa's nature as being littered with ash mountains, and now we are also ruining Saaremaa and Hiiumaa. This is a comprehensive Estonian nature. Ida-Viru County miners can still at least go to the islands to enjoy the beauty of the real nature. Do we really want them to go to Lapland or Norway instead of Estonia, because we have begun to destroy the nature of the islands? The most intrusive, however, are the studies found on the Internet, to which wind energy guardians refer and according to which wind generators increase the attractiveness of the area in the eyes of tourists. Oh, for heaven's sake! Some disaster-seekers may be enjoying a flood somewhere, and bloodthirsty scavengers photograph ship's death near Aegna, but that does not mean that a sustainable, positive and profitable tourism economy can be built on unpleasant phenomena. Go ask my colleague Imre Sooääre how the urge to his magnificent mansion and restaurant would increase if a 120-metre-high windmill was placed within a radius of a few kilometres from Pädaste Manor, whose blades are waving at a height of up to 180 metres. I hope common sense wins, and my proposal for a correction will have the power of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U80	Thank you very much, Mr Palts. You have many questions. Let's start with my colleague, Rannar Vassilyev. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U81	Thank you. I generally hope the mind wins. However, I did not understand the thought of windmills as vast creatures of nature. As far as I can tell, they are generally erected in Estonia in order to reduce the production of oil shale electricity, which is the most polluting form of electricity that we have. Which could be more negative in terms of nature's rhyming, either the windmills that are set up or the production of oil shale electricity?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U82	If you look globally, your comment is justified, but windmills in Estonia today do not reduce the electricity produced from oil shale.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U83	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U84	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have a certain connection to Saaremaa, just like you. Do you think that the tourism sector and human welfare of Saaremaa will be greatly harmed by windmills somewhere along the sea border or, for example, by the fact that the deep port of Saaremaa, which was built as a passenger port, is now being made a cargo port with an industrial area and everything else? The problems you have to solve in Saaremaa may be more than a few isolated wind farms somewhere far away.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U85	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U86	I agree that there are more problems to solve.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U87	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The government's views on these uncomfortable drafts are becoming like a genre between themselves is a little embarrassing to read, sometimes even pathetic. The government has broadened the boundaries of this genre by giving an opinion on your bill. I quote: 'The Ministry of the Environment does not support the bill, the Minister of Regional Affairs supports it, but is not satisfied with the explanatory memorandum, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications does not support it because it is contrary to the planning law. " Have you understood what this government's view is? Do they support this bill or do they not support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U88	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U89	I don't think that matters. Laws are passed by the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U90	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, For eight years I have been to Saaremaa every summer and precisely Kaarma parish. Instead, I disagree with you about what can and cannot be done by the local government. They took such a decision, and the wind farm proves to the tourist that alternative energy is preferred there and nature is clean. So it's, on the contrary, just a good commercial for this place. I'm sorry to ask you this, but the costumes discussed whether you or your relatives or friends had a holiday home or a holiday home near the wind farm?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U91	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U92	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U93	Thank you. Good Tõnis! Your feelings for windmills are common knowledge, you've used the words "ugly," "unpleasant," "breathy," and so on. My assessment of them is quite different, I actually like them, also aesthetically. I don't understand how in a situation where one aesthetically likes it and the other aesthetically doesn't like it, the problem can be solved. Immanuel Kant has written a treatise entitled "Criticism of decision" that discusses what is beautiful and what is not beautiful. Maybe we need an aesthetic judgment law, so we can solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U94	I'll quote myself, if you'll excuse me. It is a well-known fact that windmills have a negative impact on tourism, especially on nature tourism, where beautiful nature is important. I'm not just talking about my own judgment here. Indeed, Savisaar enjoyed Kangro's work as long as he was a member of the Central Party, after which he did not like it so much. Such an assessment is indeed politically undertone. I'm talking about a general fact.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U95	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U96	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good waitress, Tõnis! I like your views on wind power production from an economic point of view. I also do not understand how the Riigikogu, such a wise body, does not understand that in the current economic space, every kilowatt of wind energy is extremely damaging to the Estonian people, because we pay 5.4 eurocents to every kilowatt. Perhaps in some places the windmill seems beautiful, in some places ugly, but it really should be stopped from an economic point of view, because wind power production is subsidised to precisely this extent. So I support your bill. But do you think those good thoughts will work?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U97	Good thoughts always work. I see you're surrounded by benevolent faces.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U98	Please, Mr Vasiliev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U99	Thank you. I'm not gonna get into this aesthetic argument, either it's beautiful or it's ugly. However, as regards Mr Kaljuvee's opinion that wind energy production should be stopped because it is economically harmful, this logic is that all energy production should be stopped. At current market prices, there is no new project that will pay off economically, no matter what energy source we take. My question, however, concerns one of your claims that the use of wind energy does not reduce oil shale electricity production. This is relatively contrary to the logic of the country's energy policy as a whole. Why don't you give me a reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U100	I don't see the connection between how he could reduce it. Why don't you answer that? Estonian Energia power plants still sell maximum oil shale energy. I don't see the connection between how it could be reduced. The electricity is being sold out, we have an open market. Everyone sells as much as they can. If we put in more windmills, we won't lose any of it. It would be a closed market, then yes, maybe indeed, but Scandinavia buys on the open market, everyone sells at most. I don't see the connection.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U101	Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I must say, of course, that I agree with all the things that benefit Saaremaa. I agree with your bill, too. But I would seize the thought of Lembitu, which you supported: it was that good thoughts still pass through. From there I had a request that you may explain how these good thoughts worked out. On 21 October, the Commission said no to your draft, on 24 October it said yes. What happened in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U103	It was the same thing that happened in this hall. People need to be explained.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U104	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U105	Thank you. If there is also a one-word answer to the next question, we have set a record. It's never happened before. Your speech made it sound like we are not equal here in Estonia. In one region, nature needs to be saved more, and in another you can spit on it. You mentioned Virumaa, where it is pointless to deal with it, but the counterweight is Saaremaa and other islands. The sentence said that this position would not be challenged. It's a pure lie, it's being challenged! I think that all over Estonia nature should be protected equally, as our constitution says. We all have to have a level playing field. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U106	I will comment with the Prime Minister's words: do not put words in my mouth that have not come out of my mouth.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U107	Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U108	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Some time ago, when we took a look at the rural development plan, we heard some of these words from the Minister for Agriculture, which are very precise, that it is unfortunately not at hand that tourism is not an economically very meaningful and innovative activity. Now I'm asking why you're defending tourism.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U109	Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U110	Can you repeat whose mouth you heard those words from?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U111	I am defending, with this bill, in particular, the preservation of jobs and life in the islands.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U112	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U113	Good waitress! When I was working as a governor of the country, there was a topic that we were working on, drawing up a plan for wind energy. The four rural governments did so in cooperation with the local authorities, and I remember that, at first, when, according to a survey on the map of our county, there were a few dozen so-called yellow spots, or areas where wind energy could be developed, then, after negotiations with the local authorities, there were four of them left, if I remember correctly. Thus, the number of these areas decreased by five. The whole subject matter, however, was the object of a very lively public discussion. There were no yellow spots left on Vormsi. Vormsi immediately said they wouldn't coordinate it. Why do you think local planners don't find areas suitable for windmills? Why do you even have to say no?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U114	First of all, very visual pollution disturbs. It's such an over-the-counter problem that the thought itself doesn't work. Secondly, it is also a very long-term problem when trying to solve it at the level of the municipality. But yes, if we decide that we don't put it on the territory of our parish, but 100 meters from the border of the rural municipality, there's a 200-metre tower above one village, now it's 120 meters maximum, it just doesn't work. It's such a massive visual spill. But in fact, the local government can change its decisions. For example, there is a dispute in Muhu and I do not know which side the final decision is inclined to.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U115	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U116	Thank you, Madam President. Good Tõnis! I think keeping some of the windmills we have here is very expensive. It takes a lot of electricity to start them up every time. Perhaps it is only worth keeping them in places where there is more wind, such as the Dutch coast. Why don't we build the windmills on the Dutch coast for our money and then sell the electricity? Maybe do the same thing as Eesti Energia, who, for our money, is trying to manage some alleged oil shale deposits somewhere in the desert of America. Maybe it would make more sense to have these windmills abroad, not here, where they're littering our landscape and hurting our sense of beauty?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U117	Was that the answer? Please, Mr Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U118	Is that a question? Yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U119	Good Tõnis! I've been working on these windmills, especially in Muhu County, with our scientists Rein Oidram and Endel Ristheina. We have come to the conclusion that windmills, or the use of wind energy, are one of the most polluting forms of energy production in the environment. Windmill damage is comparable to the release of smoke in the burning of oil shale. We are talking not only about the pollution of the landscape, we are talking about the whole vortex and the pollution of the air, all these pressure differences, etc. Have you thought about banning this thing all of a sudden because it's polluting energy?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U120	I would be happy to do this in Estonia, I mentioned it here in my speech as well. But I'd do it for a different reason. This is an important additional reason for me. I'm just thinking visual pollution. I don't know how many of you have been walking in Paldiski Peninsula Park, I suggest you go there. In fact, Paldiski Peninsula is one of the most beautiful places in Estonia, but people do not go there; they have not been there today. It's a fantastic peninsula and there's a fantastic nature. I suggest you go for a walk in that park.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U121	Please, my colleague Andrei Korobenik, first question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U122	Thank you. Good waitress! I understood from your speech that it is unreasonable to create windmills in Saaremaa, but at the same time they could be built in Ida-Virumaa. Can you name more Estonian regions where to build them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U123	I must now respond indirectly to the question of an Ida-Virumaa ambassador. I would have liked to have said yes or no, but you asked me a little cleverer. Actually, I didn't say that. I said that there would be an argument that, perhaps, windmills could be banned anywhere in Estonia. I said that this is not an argument in the sense that Ida-Virumaa has, unfortunately, been corrupted anyway. I repeat, unfortunately, nature is ruined there. This does not mean that Saaremaa should also be ruined. So basically, I was thinking other things than the two of you saying. The general attitude coincides with the attitude of Mr Igor Gräzin. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U124	Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U125	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good waitress! I don't know if you were in the hall then, but an hour ago, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus answered the questions here about why a waste incineration plant so big was built in Maardu that now I have to get garbage from England and I don't know where else to get it from abroad to burn it here. The government doesn't remember or know how it was. In this light, I am terribly fond of this brief draft of yours, which suggests that we should not simply do such pointless and harmful things here in Estonia. There are many examples. But the question is this: how can the Democrats contribute to this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U126	I think there are three color buttons. Pick the right button!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U127	Please, my colleague Andrei Korobenik, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U128	Good waitress! However, I have not received an answer to my question. Can you name other regions where you can set up these windmills? Or is Ida-Virumaa the only one?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U129	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U130	I have not recommended that they be erected in Ida-Viru County, which is my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U131	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! If, thanks to your bill, four major islands can be banned from setting up crazy-big windmills, is there no danger that developers will turn to small islands? They will become more attractive in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U132	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U133	This was also the only objection from the Minister for Regional Affairs. He asked why there were only four islands. They have actually been chosen because there would be fewer discussions, fewer questions and less explanation in the Chamber. Elsewhere, the availability of switching points is so poor that there is no real presumption for these places.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U134	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, How do you feel about the idea of installing windmills in the sea beyond the island?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U135	As an ancient serious sailor, I wouldn't like that. Actually, it's a more complicated question. Imagine the northern coast of Hiiumaa, where you have a summer house. The sun doesn't set north, but in the evenings you still admire the beautiful view of the sea. But 20 kilometers away, some kind of masts appear. It's the right size, 200 meters high. You want to admire the horizon, but you actually have a shattered view of the sea. I would have liked not to have answered the opposition, but if the point is to expand, it is not right to call it exports, someone comes and builds our coastal waters for the money of the foreign investment fund windmills and electricity goes through our cables. It's actually just a formal export.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U136	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I understand that, although we are talking about nature conservation, you yourself said very clearly that the aim is to preserve the economic environment, or these islands, as a tourist area, so this industry. What else do you think needs to be done to ensure that this sector develops in the islands as well as in Estonia in general and brings additional money to our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U138	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Palts. I would like to invite Mr Erki Arrow, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, to give a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U139	To find out, you should carefully read the tourism development plan that will soon arrive here. It should be read carefully and then put into practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U140	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, In the Committee on the Environment, the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act was discussed three times. First on 23 September, then on 21 October and last on 24 October. A great many visitors had been invited to the first meeting of the Commission. The Vice Chancellor and Head of the Department of Nature Conservation of the Ministry of the Environment were present, the Head of the Energy Market of the Department of Energy of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Regina Rass, adviser to the same Ministry, as well as the Minister of Regional Affairs and Head of the Planning Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The Chief Executive of the Wind Energy Association was also invited to the meeting. The discussion that had taken place was not quite as black and white as the previous speaker could conclude. In addition, we also discussed the problems of erecting small winds in Estonia, especially in households, as a separate item on the agenda. So the debate was very broad. There was a question today about the government not supporting the draft, the Ministry of the Environment does not support it, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications does not support it, but the Minister of Regional Affairs supports it. In this context, the Commission also had different questions. The question was why it is proposed to amend the Nature Conservation Act in this way. In fact, there are three possible options: either the Nature Conservation Act, the Electricity Market Act or the Planning Act can be amended. The initiator of the bill proposes to amend the Nature Conservation Act. There were so many specific questions today that I am now going to sum up and simply say what decisions the Committee on the Environment has taken. On 21 October, the Commission decided to appoint Erki Noole as rapporteur for the leading commission for the processing of the draft 453, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the first reading be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 5 November and then to reject the draft. 5 votes to 0, with 2 abstentions. It all happened on Monday. On Thursday 24 October, the same draft was discussed again by the Commission. It was then decided to amend its decision of 21 October and to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the first reading of the draft 453 be stopped by 5 votes in favour, with 0 abstentions being 2 to 2 and to propose to the Bureau that the deadline for submitting amendments be set. a 19 November at 5.15 p.m. There were five people for it, two abstentions, no one opposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U141	Thank you very much, Mr Erki Arrow. You have questions. Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U142	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! As we have just heard, the Committee on the Environment has changed its mind on the draft. In fact, this is a very important issue and, as I mentioned to the rapporteur-general in my question, four counties have now made a thematic plan for wind energy covering the West, Hiiu, Saare and Pärnu counties. For the planners, it's very important information about this bill. When could this become the law? It's very important for planners to know. When could the bill come to second reading and be passed as a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U143	I don't know how to answer you today. We will wait for the amendments, then we will be able to look them in the face, invite representatives from different interest groups and discuss the matter further. But actually, there is another aspect of this question. Now it is relatively easy to erect windmills. If up to two windmills are involved, they can be erected without planning, even though they may be up to 2 megawatts of windmills, that they are still very high and have a considerable impact on the immediate area. This is a problem that must be addressed in any case. And, as I have already mentioned, the issue of domestic windmills must certainly be discussed further. The state has given various renewable energy subsidies to households in particular. This is an area in which people have a great interest, but very many local authorities do not have the knowledge or the desire to deal with it. So the question is not just whether a windmill can be erected in Saaremaa or Hiiumaa, it is a much wider issue throughout the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U144	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U145	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I understand from what you said that you dealt with this bill quite several times, and in the meantime your opinion changed. What were the new circumstances that led to a change in judgment, even in your own case? Did you get any new knowledge or what it was about?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U146	Members of the Riigikogu gain new knowledge every day. But in the case of wind energy, the wind blows in relatively gusts. This was also the case with our decision of the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U147	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U148	Thank you. Dear waitress, As I understand from your report, the Commission's position was the opposite of that of the government. Will the Riigikogu come to this hall one more time during this composition?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U149	Mr Colleagues, as you know very well, the Riigikogu is not a rubber stamp of the government. Riigikogu committees are independent in their decisions. That was the case this time. And I think wind energy is an issue that is still being dealt with in the Riigikogu during its term.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U150	Please, Mr Gräzin, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U151	Dear Erki! I understand you have a lot of fun in that committee. Well, it happens. But please tell me, did you also invite someone from the serious wind energy team to the Commission to make a considered decision based on scientific evidence? Or was it not necessary at this stage? I repeat that the energy engineers of Tallinn University of Technology have studied wind energy scientifically and this topic is basically closed because wind energy has proved to be so harmful that there is no point in continuing to deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U152	No, we didn't invite scientists. Tuuliki Kasonen, CEO of the Estonian Wind Energy Association, was invited to the meeting. In the case of research, it is very often the case that whoever orders the study, it also gets the desired result. The harmfulness of the wind energy you have referred to may also be equally justified. A lot of research has a lot of emotion behind it. I dare not say whether the production of wind energy is harmful to health or not. Very much has been said about the noise generated by windmills. Today's windmills work much quieter. I've been up in the windmill rotor myself. We got a perfectly normal talk. There wasn't much noise. All things are evolving, so is wind energy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U153	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U154	Thank you, Mr President. The rapporteur from the Commission. My colleague, Heljo Pikhof, in fact, asked a serious question: what was discussed in the committee that a new decision was being made? We would still like to know the course and content of this debate. If you stick to your opinion that the wind has changed, the whole Commission will be ridiculous. However, I would ask you to explain what was being said in the Commission. What were the aspects that led to the change in the decision of the Members of the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U155	Changing the direction of the wind is a serious thing. Otherwise, we wouldn't be watching the weather forecast every night if we didn't know the weather could change. The Committee on the Environment decided that it would be wise to go further in depth on this issue. That is why we decided to leave the draft in the process, to invite the Commission's guests and to continue to deal with it. That's the simple answer. Igor Gräzin expressed the opinion that we have a very fun commission. I wouldn't say we have a moody dance and a trac. We are still discussing very serious issues, and this is certainly also the subject of wind energy, which must be addressed in the context of the entire electricity market.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U156	Please, Mr Peep Aru, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U157	Thank you. Dear waitress, Can you predict, as chairman of the committee, that, now that the Commission is discussing the preparation of the second reading, from which the wind might blow?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U158	I don't know how to predict it today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U159	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Erki Arrow. I'm opening negotiations. I would first like to invite my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin as a representative of the Central Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U160	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to stop at four teas. Point 1. We all heard here the sentence that the Commission's opinion changed in the meantime, and we adopted it with laughter. But I would like to point out that this is far from the first such case in the Riigikogu. The older ones remember that in 1999 a draft was drawn up in the IX Riigikogu, which was linked to the purchase of metal. Namely, in 1999, lift and road signs began to be corrupted massively, as any metal buy-in point received all kinds of metal. Twice we have tabled a draft, the content of which was to prohibit this activity to a large extent, and we have failed twice. But maybe after some sort of business trip, I found out that the law on this subject had been passed very quickly during the third attempt. Of course he did. However, I soon received quite precise information from a group of the Riigikogu. I mean, a gentleman was stolen two kilometers of copper wire from his cabin. After that, the fist was kicked into the table and said, "Damn it, let's pass the law!" You can't live with two kilometers of wire coming, let's say, a couple of times a year. Those people who were here in the Riigikogu at the time know who I'm talking about. So there have been precedents. Point 2. This bill is quite controversial because it gives priority to some regions of Estonia and does not offer it to others. Imagine, just as a comparison, that someone comes with a bill that we in Ida-Virumaa would like to restrict oil shale mining and electricity production in order to preserve nature. Just as much mining and electricity as we need. And all the rest of you sit in the dark and think about how you're doing. That's really weird. Hundreds of examples could be given in other areas. No one can be in a privileged position, it's unthinkable! The logic of this bill is absolutely wrong from the beginning. Point 3. Once again, it is proposed to limit the possibilities of local government. However, the local government, which has already been strangled, remains alive and takes decisions on certain issues. But every time someone has a cottage somewhere a few hundred metres away from where, thank God, there is an investor who builds something and creates new jobs, the owner of the cottage has the desire to limit the authority of the local government only because his cottage is nearby. Do we understand which way we're going? Last, fourth. In a few hours, we can read the black verbatim, it's all there is, and then we'll find out who put the words in their mouths. The initiator of the draft act made it clear that Virumaa has already been polluted and should now, at least in Saaremaa and three other islands, preserve nature. There was also a sentence that this position would not be challenged. Of course, every initiator of a bill wants his bill to go through, but I do not think it is right to defend it by such methods. In addition, there are so many questions to be asked. These issues have certainly also sounded in the Committee on the Environment. It was a direct question that if you were to build windmills for the sake of clean energy, which is actually the responsibility of the Estonian state, it does not suit me very much either, but we have to do so, then name a region where they could be built if you do not think they should be erected on the islands. If there is no answer to such a clear direct question, this raises doubts about the whole draft. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U161	Thank you very much. Please, as representative of the Group of the Igor Gräzin Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U162	Ladies and gentlemen, There were quite a few problems here. I will try very briefly to touch the most important ones. Unfortunately, I did not know that this debate was going to be so passionate, and I just don't have all the necessary papers with me, but I'll talk in my head. So the claim that windmills pollute. Visual pollution is quite obvious, especially in those areas where windmills are on the side of the road, such as Virtsu or driving towards Kiviõli. Even the police have expressed concerns about the fact that the windmill in front of drivers is extremely dangerous to traffic. Second, sound pollution. Erki said the windmills would be quieter. They can stay, but they may not. It is a so-called "flying effect'. It's the same thing as planes with propellers. In order to change the pull, the angle of the blades changes. If a strong pull is required, you turn the blades that way, and vice versa, when the plane starts to land, the tours will be pulled down and the blades will be flüged in. It's the same thing for a windmill. Depends on what you want. You want to turn it around and it'll rumble, and when Erki Arrow comes, you're gonna turn it down so you don't move too much. So this isn't something of absolute-- the elemental aerodynamics. Go on, we've been talking about chemical contamination. That's the least I can say, but the general fact is more or less that the energy generated by windmills is less than the pollution caused by the construction of windmills. It doesn't really concern us. We don't build that many windmills. I think there's some pollution around Jüri, but it's not chemically very dangerous. Eight minutes, please! But now the most important pollution, which still ruins the environment capitalically. It is a barometric or barogenic contamination. Well, that's the way it's gonna be. There's a windmill and there's a wind. The wind blows here and the wind goes around like this. The wind speed is conditional, let's say 10 meters per second. But what's the wind speed behind it? Wing took the energy, didn't it? Back here, therefore, the wind speed must be lower, say, 3 m/s, which is perfectly natural in the current windmill diameters. So 7 meters per second is the difference. Now, what's going on behind the windmill? Behind the wind we get lower pressure, and what's going to develop? There's a pressure barrier, a shroud behind the windmill. And there's still a pressure difference on the boundaries of this barrier, which is like a pressure wall. In short, little birds, cockroaches and all kinds of other creatures don't go there. Mosquitoes, insects, birds can't get there. And this corridor behind the windmill is 15 to 20 kilometres long in the middle of those windmills that are in Estonia. I strongly recommend you watch a German documentary called Silent Fields. It is a fertile farmland of hundreds and thousands of hectares, from which there is no harvest because there are no birds and there are eaters running along the land, who do not care if there is a windmill or not. But every fauna flying in the air is practically gone. And that shawl is long. Thus, behind each windmill we must draw such a thoughtful ellipse and calculate how much agricultural and forest land we pollute. According to German scientists, it will take ten years to recover. Consequently, apart from inhibiting tourism and everything else, this is an extremely dangerous type of pollution. Let's go. Here was a little talk about some of the things that, unfortunately, I have to argue with my colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, where a place can and cannot build windmills and whether Ida-Virumaa is worse than other places in Estonia. Look, Mikhail, the problem is, you can't take down those existing windmills with a metal cutter tomorrow. There's money in the back. Then there'll be damages and hell knows what else. These windmills that stand in Estonia we just have to wait for them to rust up, but we have to have the brains to wait for this rusting and not build new ones. To say that the construction of a windmill gives some region the advantage of a come on! There are no people working in the windmill. They're sending an electric-montage brigade to put this windmill up. Forget it! They're not there anymore, but this windmill is behind them. The wind is, and all that sound and that wow, wow, that's what they're leaving. You don't have to be jealous in this sense. And last thing, it's about local governments. I called for cooperation with two TPI guys. God, how many times did we go to Muhu County and say, "Don't do it, it's stupid." But they wanted to build the ferns, of course, who still stood behind Kuivas, where the cobblestone tea was and the old Moonsund batteries were standing. This was prevented, but as soon as we returned to Tallinn with TPI's men, the municipality government voted again and decided that a little bit could be built. Why? Because the ferns had been there in the meantime. While I fully trust the local government, I would like to point out that, in the case of technically complicated issues, the municipality can vote emotionally and really think of any advantages, even the same advantage of the job that does not exist there. Tõnis also told me here that you're putting up a windmill and he can see where the hell he is. You see, here in the end, account must also be taken of the fact that this is a very strategic national issue. It's comicic that we're paying for the construction of windmills. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible In the case of a windmill, only one component recovers, it's the wind. But everything else will be ruined. And that is why I think that we should have a common peaceful national position on wind energy. If Tõnis is such a good man that he started from the islands, let him start. We'll shut them all down.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U163	Thank you very much, Mr Gräzin. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 453 amendments. a on November 19th at 5.15 p.m. The first reading of the draft 453 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U164	We will begin the first reading of the 454th draft law on supplementing the state fee law initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please present the speaker's colleague Kalev Kotkas, a member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U165	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the draft law 454 is to clarify the regulation in force in the State Fees Act and to distinguish the level of the state fee for the registration of trailers with a maximum mass not exceeding 3500 kilograms from the rates of the state fee for the registration of other vehicles. According to § 2 (9) of the Traffic Act, a trailer is a vehicle. Since 1 January 2010, the state fees for the registration of vehicles, including trailers, increased almost twice in Estonia and the state fee for the registration mark was added. Currently, registration of a new vehicle, including a trailer, costs EUR 121,43, plus EUR 28,76 for the registration plate. So we have to come up with 150 euros and 19 cents. The average price of a trailer sold in Estonia is 640 euros. Thus, the state registration fee represents 24% of the total cost of the trailer, while the new registration fee represents on average 1% of the cost of acquisition. Compared to our neighbouring countries, the cost of registering a trailer in Estonia is much higher. In Finland, the average price of a trailer is 750 euros and registration with the number plate costs 29 euros, or 3.7% of the purchase cost. Registration costs 5.5 euros in Norway, 6.3 euros in Sweden, 41 euros in Latvia and 34 euros in Lithuania. Thus, the state fee for registration of passenger trailers with a maximum mass of up to 350 kilograms in Estonia is disproportionate to that of other vehicles as well as to the nearest neighbours. Now, the effects of the law. The average age of trailers in Estonia is higher than the average age of the European Union. From a road safety point of view, old trailers, repaired by hand, are at a higher risk. Reducing disproportionately high registration fees would encourage environmentally friendly small-scale freight transport with passenger car trailers and would also improve road safety by allowing faster renewal of the trailer fleet and a slight reduction in traffic loads. Of course, a reduction in the rate of state fees from EUR 121,43 to EUR 25 is accompanied by the fact that less revenue will be received by the Treasury. According to the purer elements of the Road Administration, which accounted for an increase in the number of trailers registered for the following year by 3 to 4%, less than EUR 403000 would be received. At the same time, an increase in the number of registrations would make up a considerable contribution to this reduction. State fees do not always have to be cost-based; they are also instruments for compliance with certain policies. According to the calculations made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the cost-based price for vehicle registration is 14.88 euros. By lowering the state fee for registration of trailers with a maximum mass of up to 350 kilograms from the current EUR 121,43 to EUR 25, the State would show that it favours environmentally friendly small-scale transport with passenger trailers and is interested in reducing traffic load and increasing road safety due to the faster renewal of the trailer fleet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U166	Thank you very much, Mr Kalev Eagle. You have a question on my colleague, Priit Toobal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! I bought a small trailer about a month ago and paid the same state fee you were talking about. In my case, I do not see a problem, I have been able to pay it, but for example, for pensioners and people earning minimum wages, it is half of the monthly income. Do you think that a state fee that is so high at the time of the first registration of a trailer could lead, in rural areas in particular, to the purchase of a trailer but not to registration? As a result, insurance is not provided, inspections are not carried out and, in fact, these trailers are dangerous in traffic. How many trailers could there be that are not registered and pose a risk to traffic?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U168	The exact number cannot be stated, but larger trailer manufacturers have indeed observed a tendency that the number of trailers sold is higher than the number of trailers registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U169	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Kalev Eagle. Mr Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U170	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed this draft at its meeting on 21 October. My colleague Kalev Kotkas was also present as the initiator's representative. Following a proposal from the initiator, the Commission decided to present the draft as amended. There was a mistake, a discrepancy between the explanatory memorandum and the draft text. This was corrected and the Commission submitted a draft amendment. To sum up the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the information required that the Committee on Economic Affairs was dealing with a draft amendment to the State Fees Act and that it dealt with the rates of administrative procedures in the traffic register more widely. The Commission, of course, raised the question of the impact of the draft on the state budget. The initiators estimate that the State would lose EUR 403549 per year. It was also asked that since the amendment would have an impact on the state budget in the process, it would be possible to put it into effect as of 2015. Members of the Commission also wondered where such an initiative had come from, which category might be most affected. Turns out we've been approached by the trailer salesmen. This was a brief summary of the debate that has taken place. The Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda on 5 November, which had to be postponed to date due to the non-amendment of the agenda. It was also decided to present the text of the draft as amended for the first reading. This decision was made by consensus. The Commission also took a second decision: rejecting the draft at first reading. There were 6 members of the Commission in favour, 5 against and no abstentions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U171	Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. No questions for the waitress. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? I would like to ask my colleague, Kalev Eagle, to represent the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U172	Madam President! Honourable colleagues! According to data from Statistics Estonia, 6900 new trailers were registered in 2007, with a total registration fee of 573454 euros according to the state fees at the time. As of 31 December 2009, the number of registrations of new trailers had fallen to 2470. In view of the new, nearly double state fees, EUR 370975 was collected with the Treasury. Thus, the volume of revenue received by the State decreased by EUR 202478. The effect of doubling the rates of State fees for smaller trailers is a painful example of how the state cut its own finger and snatched its own citizens as road users and trailer manufacturers, ignoring road safety and environmental arguments. In spring 2012, the Government's draft amended the state fees for the registration of so-called risk groups such as jet skis and off-road vehicles, old vehicles, racing cars, etc. At the then Economic Commission debate, it was recognised that the state fee for registration of trailers was disproportionate and allowed to come back to the subject in autumn 2012. Now, a year and a half later, there's nowhere to be seen. The continuation of the current situation is detrimental to all parties involved, including the State. The initiators are ready to negotiate both the proposed rate of state fees and the date of entry into force of the draft, but the problem must finally be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U173	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There are no more requests, so I will close the negotiations. The Commission's proposal was to reject the draft 454 at first reading. We have to vote through this. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 454 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 45 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, with 31 abstentions. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported. Draft 454 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U174	The next item is the first reading of the draft Patient Act 457 initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U175	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Allow me to introduce draft Patient Act 457. I'm gonna start from a distance and explain why we need the patient code at all. Estonia is a member of the World Health Organisation and recognises its principles. One of the most important tasks of this organisation is to guarantee patients' rights. As a country of the European Union, we are based on the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the European Charter on the Rights of Patients, as well as on the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, together with its annexes, which also protect human rights and human dignity in the application of medical science. We already have a law on the organisation of health services, which lays down the procedures and requirements for the provision of these services according to the types of medical care, the same law also regulates the management, financing and supervision of health care. In addition, there are a number of special laws governing health care: Health Insurance Act, Medicines Act, Public Health Act, Psychiatric Assistance Act, Artificial Fertilization and Embryo Protection Act, Occupational Health and Safety Law, Abrupt Pregnancy and Sterilization Act, Blood Act, Disease Prevention and Control Act. The Law of Obligations Act, which came into force ten years ago, includes a health care contract as a new category in the list of private contracts as a separate part. Despite the many laws, however, we have a number of problems in this area and issues of decision-making that are not sufficiently covered by any law. More specifically, there could be an example of a patient's obligation to communicate his/her medical condition, the problems, requirements and procedures for his/her consent to the treatment procedure or analyses, how the patient may be involved in clinical studies and medical research, as well as procedures for resolving patients' complaints and treatment dissatisfaction statements and treatment quality problems. Although international documents provide an opportunity to lay down the rights of patients and to regulate the relations arising from the provision of healthcare in different health laws, several countries, such as Finland, Norway, Denmark, Iceland, have considered it appropriate to regulate this area by a single law. A simple, easy-to-read and easy-to-read Patient Act creates good prerequisites for less misalignment and more effective treatment. Estonia still lacks a compact law that would establish the rights and obligations of doctors, nurses and other health care providers on the one hand, and patients on the other. Patient law wasn't easy to do. First, like the Employment Contracts Act, the Patient Act is essentially situated on the border between private law and public law, covering legal issues in different areas. Secondly, the purpose and nature of medicine itself and of law are already conflicting. After all, the purpose of medical science is noble: to increase human well - being, to reduce his or her afflictions, and thereby to give him more freedom and the possibility of self - being. On the other hand, the law also limits the autonomy of a person in a democratic country, prescribes what can and must be done. Even if someone is given the right to do something, it means autonomy at the expense of someone. I mean, somebody's gonna have to put up with somebody's right. Because medical law intersects the beliefs of medicine and law, situations may arise where it is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to find a solution acceptable to both sides, both the doctor and the patient. Consider, for example, the problem of an adult Witness of Jehovah: A person refuses a blood transfusion that would save his life. The doctor has taken an oath from Hippocrates, which obliges him to do everything in his power to preserve his life, to carry out a blood transfusion from the point of view of a capable patient would be a violation of his right to self-determination. This example comes from the book "Medical Law" by our renowned legal scholars Ants Nõmper and Professor Jaan Sootak. The same specialists have stated that, in view of the future, it can be predicted that sooner or later the term "patient law" will prevail. This is demonstrated by both the actual situation and the possibility of overcoming the dilemmas of medical law. The World Health Organisation and the World Medical Association have adopted declarations on patients' rights. The patient is mostly a weaker partner in relation to the healthcare provider, as the patient generally lacks the necessary knowledge and information in this field. But not always. Doctors-sisters and other healthcare professionals are not protected from spiteful patients for whom no treatment or any doctor is good enough. This is where human communication is very important, and this is, as you know, a very sensitive subject. At the same time, there are objective principles for communication in healthcare institutions, which make it easier to understand each other and to provide assistance to patients. The Patient Act is trying to create better prerequisites for dialogue, understanding and trust between the parties. Patient information and informed consent to study or treatment are key areas of the law. A person must be able to decide for himself whether to interfere with or refuse his or her health. This right is an integral part of human rights, but in order to decide, the patient needs to understand his/her status and alternative treatment options and also to know what the withdrawal of treatment may lead to. All of this needs to be explained by a physician in a way that the patient understands. The draft law also provides for cases where the patient needs to receive information in writing, as well as when and for which the patient's signature is required. It is needed for, for example, surgery, heart sounding and some other higher risk procedure. This does not mean, however, that each step of treatment must be signed by the patient. This is also the case if the patient goes to give blood or to the lung X-ray on prescription from the doctor. On the other hand, when it comes to more dangerous procedures, there is also a guarantee for the doctor. If a patient does not want to know the whole truth, it is not imposed on him unless ignorance threatens other people. For example, infectious diseases are certainly a danger to our companions. The doctor should indicate the treatment document for which he or she does not provide some information. If we look at what is regulated in the Law of Obligations Act, there is no specific form for notification. A new concept has also been included in the bill; it is a patient's confidant, who may not be related to him. The patient can decide for himself who will be given sensitive information and who will be asked to accept one or the other treatment if he or she is unable to decide on it. In a very serious condition, it reduces the risk that information about the health of a sick person comes against his or her will in the ears of outsiders, whether or not they belong to them. However, neither the patient's confidant nor the minor's parents can prohibit treatment if the patient's life depends on it. Thus, blood transfusions to a life - threatening infant, regardless of their parents'religious beliefs, are clearly legitimate. Only an adult and conscious patient can refuse a lifesaving procedure. There is also the possibility to record in writing in the treatment document that the decision-making patient has given up one or the other method of treatment with full knowledge. Such a provision also protects doctors from possible trials. Everyone has the right to an independent second opinion if he or she feels that the diagnosis is not correct or the treatment is not working. The draft establishes another new national institution, i.e. a Patient Advisor. Patient advisors with a doctor, a lawyer or a social worker's profession are guided by the rights and responsibilities of the patient and the doctor and in medicine at all, helping patients understand and protect their rights when necessary. But also to a doctor, an employee with such knowledge is a more equal partner than a person who is able to handle matters more adequately if the patient fails or simply fails. The Patient Counsellor is a kind of connection between the patient and the health care professional if they do not get along without an intermediary. Procedures for handling complaints are specifically defined in the Patient Act. A patient who is dissatisfied with healthcare services and his or her legal representative, trustee or family have the right to lodge a complaint against both the person providing the healthcare, i.e. the doctor or the management of the institution, as well as the health services quality committee. Specific arrangements will help to solve problems on a human level before the conflict is escalated. If the solution is not stuck in the air, there is less reason to go to court. The draft also regulates clinical studies and research in accordance with the principles of the Annexes to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicals. Scientific research within the meaning of the Patient Act is a medical or biological study carried out by a person with a view to obtaining new information that is available in the field of medical science. The draft stipulates where the patient is allowed to be enrolled in clinical studies. This right is limited to the training of an official doctor, nurse or other healthcare professionals in the basic institutions. The subject must be clearly aware that he or she has the right to refuse to participate. The doctor may want to demonstrate a special case to the students, but some people may have a negative effect on too much attention. If the patient is clearly told that he or she is not required to participate in clinical studies, he or she dares to refuse if necessary. But rights always go hand in hand with obligations. In this way, the Patient Act also defines the responsibilities of patients, such as the obligation to answer questions related to the provision of healthcare or to adhere to medical guidelines if they want to be cured and have given their consent to treatment. I'm sure the doctor and the patient are out for the same thing. Good fellows! For the first time in the history of the Riigikogu, we took the inclusion process to the grassroots level, giving all interested parties the opportunity to make comments and suggestions about the draft Patient Act through the Riigikogu website. We sent the draft to all relevant associations, associations, umbrella organisations for doctors, nurses and patients, trade union federations, hospital associations, the House of People with Disabilities, etc., a total of 76 associations, associations and organisations. We received much-needed feedback from both the target groups and ordinary citizens. We also took into account many of the proposals and improvements, but not all of them, of course, because the opinions were wall-to-wall and one proposal could rule out the origin of another. This was now the third time the draft law was updated and refined. The Government of the Republic did not support the draft, as has been the case with opposition initiatives. To be honest, I would have expected world-view complaints about the defence of the weaker party, because debt law already allows the wealthiest part of society to assert its rights in court. Unfortunately, we were criticised for resolving matters differently in a special law than in a general law and recommended that the reference to the law be replaced by a reference to a sub-act. As a result, I have a friendly recommendation to keep the coalition in line with cuts, so that ministries can keep lawyers on the payroll, and we can read more serious criticism in the future. Finally, it is high time we adopted the patient law that everyone understands. Three is the law of the court, says the mouth of the people. As feedback from citizens, associations and organisations showed, about 300 amendments came to us, that both patients and health professionals need this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U176	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Heljo Pikhof! For a co-report, I would like to ask Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U177	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Heljo Pikhof, on behalf of the initiators, gave a very thorough and long overview of this draft, I will not repeat it. Heljo Pikhof did the same in our Social Affairs Committee meeting. Let me briefly outline what was still discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and what the Committee on Social Affairs decided. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed a draft of 457 at two meetings of the Commission on 22 October and 4 November. On 22 October, we made a procedural decision to send the draft to the Chamber by 5 November, where it did not arrive until today, because yesterday it was not possible to discuss the items on the agenda and they were transferred to today. The second decision was that the Commission's rapporteur was Margus Tsahkna. A substantive debate took place on 4 November when the initiator gave a very thorough and long overview and we also heard from a representative of the government. This was Ingrid Ots-Vaik, head of the health department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Government of the Republic does not support this bill. The justifications are quite long, basically distributed to the opinions of the two ministries, the Ministry of Social Affairs sent the Commission the views of the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Justice, which were quite well explained. In particular, a discussion took place between Heljo Pikhof, one of the initiators of the draft, and a ministerial adviser. The main issue was the need for concrete examples. In particular, the Government argues that some of the provisions contained in the draft act overlap, in part or in full, with those already in force in law. As the government representative was unable to provide examples by heart, it was agreed that the material concerned would soon be forwarded to the Commission. The next day, or even the same day, this material was collected. There was a specific comparative analysis of the draft and the current law. That's not what I'm going to read to you here, it's pretty long material and it's accessible to everyone. The Commission took the following decisions at its meeting on 4 November: Five members of the Commission were in favour of completing the first reading. Consequently, the Commission's proposal is to reject the draft at first reading. The second decision was that if the assembly decides to close the first reading of the draft, it is proposed to set ten working days for the deadline for amendments in accordance with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U178	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U179	Thank you. The Law of Obligations Act, as such, is a very universal law, and from this logic we would not need a number of other laws that are still in force in Estonia, based, among other things, on the need to regulate the contractual relationship. Why, then, is there no need for a specific law in this case in addition to the Law of Obligations Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U180	Good questioner! This question was not raised in the Commission. We did not discuss this in the Commission. However, I personally consider that there should not be one code for the interests of the patient, in which his rights and obligations are specifically recorded. One issue that I hope will be discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs in the near future is the issue of liability insurance. I think that within this framework too, there are quite a number of proposals that have been included in this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U181	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U182	The second question is very direct: if you did not discuss it, what were you discussing at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U183	As I said, we discussed whether or not the initiator would receive sufficient material from a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U184	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U185	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We have also often admitted that the laws of the Estonian state are complicated and difficult to read. When a common man reads the law, he hardly understands everything well. Patient law is very well written. I believe that when a common man reads it, he understands very well what his rights and obligations are. Is it not for this reason that the Patient Act deserves a second reading and further discussion in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U186	I agree that our legal space is over-regulated. We, as a country, have gone down the road to trying to put all our rights and obligations and as many vital situations as possible into the law. Actually, there's no need for that. Very many things could be solved primarily by common sense and practices. Patient law is well written in this sense that there are very many aspects of the subject, but I am not sure that we need to establish a separate law on this. That's the point of the argument. The Commission found that we did not support the completion of the first reading of the draft in this form. It was the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U187	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U188	I would like to make one addition: not summarised, but unwritten. But if you have looked at the table of amendments, there are not only doctors, nurses, etc. but also the Ministry, and many of them have been taken into account. I really don't understand what this is about. So many people, alongside the authorities, have taken part in improving this bill, why do we not meet people's wishes? That's the patient code we need!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U189	Good questioner! I know that you have worked very hard to prepare this draft, and this work will certainly be very useful. I have said this publicly myself, too, that many patients do not know their rights and obligations because they are very difficult to find in documents. I certainly support this direction that the existing rights and obligations of both patients and doctors, in fact, also medical practitioners, have their rights, not only should the obligations be clearly stated somewhere, but I am not sure that this should be the law. But yes, if you look at the text of this law, indeed, this law is much more readable than, for example, the laws governing public procurement, which no one can understand, even lawyers. In this sense, it is a good example that very good work has been done to clarify the legal language and it is good to read the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U190	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U191	Thank you. Good performer! I do not remember having adopted the view that they do not want to do so. I think it has been tried for years, it has also been debated, but there has not been such a view that, no, we do not need this law. And now this text exists in some form. Shouldn't this be the basis for the government to add something to it? This law is needed; it exists in other countries. Why don't we just go ahead and work together?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U192	I'm just saying there's no law yet. There is a draft that has been submitted and the first reading of which the Commission decided not to conclude.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U193	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U194	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You said that many of the proposed things already exist in other legal acts, the Law of Obligations Act and the Health Care Act, etc. However, there are certainly a number of details in this bill that are not provided for in the existing regulations. Therefore, should we not, however, complement existing laws in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U195	There is certainly a need to clarify existing laws. I have already mentioned that, with regard to the European Union directive on the free movement of patients, the issue of liability insurance, which, on the one hand, mainly concerns people providing health services, and, on the other hand, also patients, will soon come into this Chamber. I think this debate will be over here, too. What's nice to me? Let's just leave the patients out of this for a second. Maybe it's naive, but I like the principle that the laws on children and families could be together in one place and the laws on patients' rights and obligations in one place. Jne. It'd be easier to watch. But this requires a very serious analysis of the legal space and legislation of the entire Estonian state. I'm the person who thinks we've already over-regulated ourselves. In this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, we are constantly working with you on the draft laws to improve the law. If there's a new life situation, we're gonna have to cut it into the law right now. Flexibility, which is based on human interests, has disappeared or is disappearing from our legal space.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U196	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U197	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! You said that there were a number of very good points and aspects in the proposed draft, which concern patients' rights and obligations, but you also said that all of this does not necessarily have to be enshrined in the law. But where could these very good principles of the Social Democrat bill be written? What form would it be if it wasn't the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U198	This is not what we discussed in the Commission. But I'll tell you my personal position. Existing regulations on patients' rights could be translated into human languages and information to inform people about their rights in the field of healthcare. Very often patients do not know what rights they have, and very often they do not know what obligations they have. But I believe that concrete proposals, the implementation of which requires legislative changes, will continue to reach this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U199	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U200	Thank you. I'd say the law of debt is a general law. Patient law is a special law. We are not going to, say, regulate patients' rights and obligations in general, in the pharmaceutical law and other special laws that I read earlier. The draft Patient Act, however, generally regulates everything and is designed to protect both the patient and the doctor. I am pretty sure that if there was a law from which both parties can look at their rights and obligations, they will be given instructions on how to behave in one case or another, and everything here is prettyly unwritten, then that would be a good thing. Perhaps the situations that have arisen in our health care could be resolved. There are a number of problems. Let's take a pre-trial dispute settlement, and so on. The doctors don't want everything to be on the big watch either.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U201	Thank you. There was no question, there was a comment. So there's no need to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U202	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! Do you want to open negotiations? Please, Eiki Nestor as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U203	Mr President, perhaps I am getting too carried away, so I would like to ask for more time in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U204	Let's give it eight minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U205	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable ambassadors! We already have the law of debt from the end of 1990. It regulates contractual relations. The question is how long it will take for Estonian society to realise that if one person is in poor health and another person is helping him for this reason, it is a contractual relationship. Figuratively speaking, the difference is that if anyone fails to go to university after the end of the upper secondary school, they will not have the opportunity to sue the state that taught him badly to compensate for the loss of income due to failure to enter the university. We don't have that right. However, if someone in health care happens to be wrong or some mistake happens, a person can complain about him under the Law of Obligations Act. The general provisions of the Law of Obligations Act are excellent and good when both parties are equal. That's what debt law requires. In addition to debt law, however, we have a number of specific laws that have been drawn up and adopted on the basis of the second principle: that the parties in a contractual relationship are not equal. These laws are good for us. The most typical example is the Employment Contracts Act, which has also been adopted only because the parties are not equal. Speaking of patient-doctor relationship, forgive me for what we're talking about! If we assume that there is no need for a specific patient's law, then that means that we assume that only doctors and no one else are going to see the doctor. I'm sorry, but such a conclusion can really come to that. In fact, we really need such a special law. In some ways, the current opposition is familiar to the initiators and also to know who is against this law. Of the many opinions we received as initiators of the draft, I would like to thank everyone for their opinions, and here too, thanks to Heljo Pikhof, the principal author of the draft, one thing is very clear to come out. First of all, the fact that those who are on the side of healthcare providers are a little afraid of this bill. They are not directly against this law, but they do not want to be in favour either, because in some ways it makes their lives more troublesome, that is to say frankly. There is also a group that are, for obvious reasons, firm enemies of this bill. These are lawyers and other lawyers who are currently active in the area of healthcare law. It takes away their income. We understand that their protest is fair and justified. However, I say honestly too: we have so thought that they should not be paid. That is the point of this bill. Today we are talking here in Question Time and, on other occasions, we have talked about the share of health expenditure in GDP. By the way, in the United States, the share of health expenditure in GDP is higher than in Estonia, but it is known that a very high percentage of this money goes not to doctors and nurses as it should, but to lawyers representing doctors, nurses or patients. It is a European practice to reduce, eliminate this payment by means of a special law. While this right cannot be taken away from anyone, it is an attempt to spend as little as possible of the money we spend in the interests of health, on legal disputes and as much as possible on the provision of real medical care, on improving human health. The liability insurance that Mr Tsahkna was talking about, and which, as I understand, is being introduced across Europe, should actually only happen after the Patient Act has been passed. That would be a logical continuation of that. If such responsibility is enshrined in the Patient Act, the Liability Insurance Act states that such insurance will be taken up and understands why it is needed. In Estonia, by the way, it was that a large, very progressive and very good hospital at the University of Tartu Hospital used liability insurance without any legal requirements after the Law of Obligations Act became applicable. He insured his doctors and sisters against mistakes, but then he gave it up because he saw no one asking for anything. I don't think it's necessary to rely on our patients not to be so smart that they realize that if they have had some kind of health problem when they were given medical care, they could file a lawsuit. Yes, they can! And the sooner we figure that out, the better. It would make sense that all this already scarce amount of money that goes into health care would be spent to improve health and not used for litigation, even though they are very justified and necessary. So, ladies and gentlemen, I dare call on you not to vote in favour of this committee. I also call on the representatives of Estonian health care to take an understanding of the draft. In one way, this law would make their lives more complex in some respects, but on the other hand, it would be easier when we talk about responsibility. Finally, a warm welcome also for health lawyers. We would really like to take this money away from you, because we think it will be used elsewhere for a much better purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U206	Thank you very much. Please, Viktor Vassilyev as representative of the Centre Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U207	Thank you, Madam President. I'll ask for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U208	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U209	Ladies and gentlemen, patient law was long overdue. Of course, it must be the case that first the rights of the patient are established, then the liability insurance of medical personnel. That is exactly the way it was said in that gray time when Eiki Nestor was Minister of Social Affairs. The younger ones don't remember, many old people who remember are already dead, but that was the time. There was talk of patient law at the time, and that was what was really needed. Unfortunately, a lot of blood has flowed into the sea since then, and many patients have left where there is no pain, no pain, no need for health insurance. Our health care has turned primarily into a private sector. Was it wrong or right, but agreed on a private basis is good. Maybe it's good, okay, let him be private. But that son of a bitch has gone into business. So now we have business health care. The opposition party has just done with its own powers, of course, they had to use the excellent work of the former minister and former ministerial advisor. It was a very big job, a very large job, and, as far as I know, nearly 90 different organisations and individuals were getting assessments, and the headache agency also expressed its position, which I think was not taken into account. The greatest concern is the law for the Government of the Republic and especially the Ministry of Social Affairs. Why? Because time is gone because a creature like a patient doesn't exist. As I said, health care has gone into business and when a person is ill, he is not offered help but is offered a service for which he or she has to sign a contract with a health care provider. The fact is that we have a number of major laws governing health care, the law of debt, the greatest and most important of them, of course, and there is no mention of any patient anywhere. All sub-level legislation is also about the client. If a patient has accidentally remained subject to some sub-level legislation, then he is still a lost species for some reason, but he will die out there too. What's the difference? Good friends, that word has been known since ancient Rome. The patient is suffering, the patient is suffering, the sufferer is suffering. Who's the client? The client in question is a patron-dependent person. I'm talking about ancient Roman times and Latin again. It is a person living on patron lands, by the grace of his patron, who also has a duty that when the master goes to war, the client must also take handy instruments and help his master in the war against his neighbor. Or if there's any urgent field work to be done, the client has to help. Now that's a customer. Customer and patron. But we're talking about a patient in this new bill. Very good! The Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee has said historical words here that there really is a need for a code that includes patients' rights. As a young man, he may not know that there has always been an appropriate code of ethics. Of course, neither have I been personally familiar with Hippocrates, but the old one died two and a half thousand years ago, but the Hippocrates oath is given by all medical professionals who will work in this difficult profession anywhere in the world. Noli nocere, or do not harm the patient, is one of the main postulates that Hippocrates left us. Ethics is still being taught to medical students. They study ethics, but unfortunately, when they've graduated from the university and when the heavy oak door of the alma mater has slammed behind their backs, it turns out that this ethics doesn't fit in the doors of the health centres. It doesn't fit into our health care system. Our lovely draft law on patients' laws is trying to fill this gap. It tries to describe the code of ethics, tries to pick up this topic from many other laws that mention the relationship between a client and a patron or between a client and a waitress, tries to dismantle it from the patient's point of view. Very good things are in the Patient Act. I know that there are people who are very pleased that there are such words that the patient needs to be made aware of his rights and the possibilities of using alternative services in a way that he understands, therefore in a language that he understands. Oh, yeah, a lot of people would be very happy about that. I don't have the guts to be happy because I'm looking at things a little bit wider. I look at it in the light of cross-border medical care for patients who have approached catastrophically and are now completely in existence. After all, this means that the German, French, Portuguese or Chinese must also be made aware of his rights and the use of alternative services in the language he understands. I don't know how to figure this out. I'm afraid the lawyers will have enough work to do if this law is passed. At the same time, it is a very good bill. It fills an empty space and fits the current legal regulation of health care perfectly, as well as a fist-hole to the Ministry of Social Affairs. Of course, their employees are against it. Whoever wants to rewrite a big pile of laws and regulations? All the more reason you're still writing when the patient's dead, there's no patient. The patient is dead, live the client! We only have customers now. There you go. In conclusion, our group is opposed to voting this law out of the procedure. This law is necessary because it is a declaration and shows that the patient needs protection. The patient needs protection not from doctors, not from nurses and not from the orderlys, but from those who have put in place a system that supports it, and also from those who are voting here today to reject this draft from the procedure. The patient should be protected from these risks. And honor to the writers of this law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U210	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 457 at first reading. We have to vote on this. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 457 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 42 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 32 against and no abstentions. The proposal of the commission was therefore supported, draft 457 has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U211	Agenda item 5 is the first reading of Bill 486 on Amendment of the Parental Compensation Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U212	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to introduce to you draft Social Democrats No 486. This concerns the amendment of the Parental Benefits Act. The Parental Benefits Act aims to maintain previous income by granting state support to people whose income is reduced as a result of raising their children and to support reconciliation between work and family life. It's been spoken and spoken here, but I'm going to go over it. Despite the stated objective, the current Parental Benefits Act is rigid in terms of reconciling work and family life. The amount of parental benefit paid to a person to earn a higher income than the minimum wage during the period of parental benefit is reduced. The current law also establishes that parental benefit is paid only in the first 17 months of the child's life. This draft aims to make the parental benefit system more flexible. Parents may use parental benefit days until the child reaches the age of 8 or the end of the first school year. The amendment allows mothers and fathers to use parental benefit days, for example, to support a child when entering the first class or in any other necessary period. The proposal allows for a flexible reconciliation of working life with family life. Parents can work part of the week, while parents can use parental benefit days to raise a child in the second part. This allows parents to work part-time, to keep up to date with what is happening at work and thus to remain competitive in the labour market. This would avoid problems that could arise when a long - term child is at home. The law limits the length of parental benefit to 0.5 days per week. This allows both parents to babysit for half a day on one day of the week. The analogue system is successfully used in Sweden. We've also been thinking about how to arrange all this. In order to ensure the proper use of parental benefit, the claimant is asked for precise information about the time of working time and the time of use of parental benefit and is obliged to prove the circumstances of the beneficiary's employment at the request of the pension authority or the Police and Border Guard Board. That would be all briefly about the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U213	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U214	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Thank you very much for presenting a sensible bill. Here's my question. The current report of the National Audit Office points out once again and warns us that Estonia is one of the fastest aging countries in Europe. At the same time, we know that in countries where work and family life can be more compatible and women's employment is higher, the birth rate is also higher. Do you think that the adoption of your draft as a law could have a positive impact on Estonia's population?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U215	Thank you for your question. I'm sure you could publish it. There are several aspects. First, if the parental benefit period is extended, parents can take turns keeping children at home who currently do not have a day care position in Tallinn or Tartu. In Sweden, for example, this flexible arrangement has shown that if a father is at home with a child some days a week, it improves family relationships, fewer divorces, and even has a positive effect on the health of fathers. That is to be welcomed. It is certainly appropriate to reconcile work and family life and to propose various ways of doing so by the state. As regards the extension of the parental benefit period, I would like to stay on one draft, which is currently in the proceedings in the Riigikogu and which we have just discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. This relates to situations where the parent is employed during the parental benefit period, and how the remuneration is paid then. If a person receives a minimum wage, he or she can work full-time and retain parental benefit during that period. I believe that there are a number of unfair situations in life itself, and all regulation must be made more favourable from the point of view of parents. After all, it is better for people to be able to work part - time and be paid for the days they work and for the days they spend at home with their children. This would be a much more logical approach and would make it possible to make the parental benefit period more flexible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U216	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Heljo Pikhof! I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U217	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft at 486 two sessions. The first took place on 22 October and the second on 4 November. On October 22nd, we decided to send the bill to the hall by November 5th, but he made it to you today, November 6. We've appointed Yana Toom as waitress. On 4 November, there was a substantive debate, and since Yana Toom was unable to attend the session, we decided that I would report on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs. That's why you'll find the name of Yana Toom on the agenda, actually, I'll do the report. Like here today, Heljo presented the content of the draft in the Commission. There was a debate where a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs was also present, who reported the government's position. The government does not support this bill. Anyone can see the reasons why it is not supported. Different issues came up in the Commission. For example, it was discussed how it would be possible to administer half a day's parental benefit. This is a complex issue in which the representative of the ministry said that it would require the whole system to be changed. Similarly, we would delay the period of parental benefit to eight years. A very confusing situation would arise: at what time one parent takes parental benefit, which one takes it and how it distributes exactly. We were given an example of the Swedish system, where this period is longer and opportunities are much more flexible. There, the parent must set a schedule just before he or she receives parental benefit, since he or she takes it and when he or she does not work. It was also discussed how such a flexible parental benefit system would affect employers and the labour market if both parents were able to receive half a day's parental benefit. But since we did not raise the question from the point of view of the labour market and we did not have specialists in the field, they were just opinions. And as always with the subject of parental benefit, there was talk about the ceiling for this benefit and the philosophy of parental benefit. Finally, the Commission took the following decisions: Our proposal to reject the draft at first reading was for 4 people, against 2, impartial 0. However, if the first reading is completed, the deadline for amendments could be set at 10 working days in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U218	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U219	Thank you. It was pointed out in the committee, and you also said that there is no system to take it into account when parents are at home and work at some point. After all, the obligation to keep this schedule can be recorded in a sub-level act, such as a regulation. It's perfectly feasible. Secondly, there is the concern that maybe officials have a lot of work to do, so let's not change the law. That can't be the reason. We still need to think about how mothers and fathers can reconcile work and family life. The members of the Riigikogu must be guided by this, not by the workload of the officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U220	Thank you, Heljo! I fully agree that we must not rely on law making to see how comfortable or uncomfortable officials are. However, the measures to be implemented should be relatively easily managed. You know very well that for me too, children and family policy are one of the most important policies to pursue in Estonia. The point of parental benefit is that if a child is born into the family, one parent can stay at home so that his income remains at the same level. If this period is extended to eight years, going to work will start to be incomplete, and this is the point of arguing whether it is needed or not. What I see as a solution is that we are able to take more measures to help reconcile work and family life. It includes childcare, childcare as part of early childhood education or not. It certainly includes flexible working hours and so on. For some reason, however, it seems to me that we will not be able to get away with the parental benefit discussions in this Chamber in the future. If we look at the state budget and at the amount of money that goes into family and child support, and the proportion of the amount that is spent on parental benefit, which currently covers a year and a half, we must recognise that the social democrats are right. The time until the child reaches school is not equally covered by the measures. So, in my opinion, this is a question of the future of all of our family and children's policies, how we can provide support for those who need it, and that services, precisely in reconciling family and working life, are such that people can both raise their children and go the other way to work, so that the family's income does not suffer. We will never be able to pay off our parents until they reach their adulthood. And that is not the purpose of any country either.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U221	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U222	Thank you, Madam President. Good Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! Indeed, if we look at our neighbouring countries, where the birth rate is higher than in Estonia, all of them also have a higher rate of female employment and a higher number of birth rates per woman. More babies are born. The key is to reconcile work and family life, because women want two things: they want children and they want to go to work. The purpose of this draft is to broaden this possibility. It is certainly not a goal for women to be at home for eight years, but precisely for them to reconcile work and family life. It seems too difficult for you to do so, but could the law, for example, allow parental benefits to be taken for a year in a row, and it could take half a year if the parent wanted to? Could there be such an opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U223	I will state my personal position. I am very flexible with regard to the various measures that could be taken. After all, I have my own family experience. At present, however, the majority of mothers stay at home and take advantage of parental benefits. We could definitely move in that direction so that it is more divided. On the one hand, women would not stay away from the labour market for so long, and on the other hand, it might be useful if the father had a duty to be able to stay at home with the child. This links the father more with the child and maybe we will see less parents raising the child alone in the future, most of whom are women. But how flexibly we can change the parental benefit law in this Chamber does not, of course, depend solely on my will. In the current situation, the Commission decided not to support the draft. But I'm sure we'll be dealing with parental benefit in this hall maybe even more, but definitely next year and the next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U224	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U225	Thank you. Honourable waitress! If you are flexible, I call on you to vote in favour of the Socialist Bill! Now, speaking of whether the fathers could be at home with the child during parental benefit, I think there would certainly be fathers who would be at home even for a few or three days a month, so that the mother could go to work and not lose her qualifications. This is especially important when children are born in a row. That is the point, and it would therefore be very good if the draft were to remain in the process and we could discuss the matter in the committee. We are flexible, too, moving forward gradually if this is not right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U226	Very briefly: it was a good proposal. There was no question, but I'm saying it doesn't work very stable to go to work on a piece by piece, be it a man or a woman. The employer is still interested in keeping the person at work or at least knowing for sure when the person is at work and when he or she is not. At the moment, I just see the good will of the Socialists to resolve this problem within the existing instruments, that we have 1.5 years of decent support, which is in some respects labour market support, not a social measure, but the rest of the period is not covered. They've been thinking about how to use this money longer. But philosophically, I cannot support this proposal, rather than be specific during this period. Within this period, however, regulation can be made more flexible, so that both father and mother are at home for a while. Mothers should return to the labour market and the state would have other measures to guarantee support for parents so that they could raise children at least until they go to school. We have a pretty good education system, but there are problems with kindergarten places and other kindergartens.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U227	No further questions. Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 486 at first reading. We have to vote on this. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission 486 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 24 against and no abstentions. The commission's proposal was supported, the draft has been rejected and falls out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U228	Ladies and gentlemen, We will go to the next item, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Public Health Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do you want to open negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. The commission's proposal was to put the draft to a final vote of 436. We are preparing for the final vote. We'll wait a while, the call will go on, maybe there's someone else coming from the house. Can I go to the final vote? Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote a draft law amending 436, the Public Health Act and the State Fees Act. Please take a stand and vote. 61 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U229	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Civil Status Acts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Population Register Act, the Local Government Organisation Act and the State Fees Act 464. I would like a presentation by Siim Kabritsa, member of the Chair of the Legal Affairs Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U230	Madam President, please. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed this draft at its meeting on 22 October. In addition to the members of the committee, experts in their field were invited: Head of Department of Population Operations at the Ministry of Interior Enel Punga, Legal Adviser to Regional Development Department Epp Hannus, Representatives of the Professional Association of Civil Status Officers, Head of Department of Tallinn Civil Status Department Ingrid Sarvet and Head of the Tallinn Civil Status Department Karin Kask. The members of the committee were briefed on the draft law amending the Civil Status Acts Act, Population Register Act, Local Government Organisation Act and State Fees Act 464. The proposed amendments were explained to us and then the questions were answered. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided by consensus to initiate four amendments. They are of a technical nature and are made by professionals in the field in order to improve the quality of the draft. One amendment concerns cases where someone's death has been wrongly recorded or where a person who is registered as an unknown deceased has been identified and a new medical death report has been drawn up. Other proposals concern the area of data collection entries, when to supplement them, when not. The civil status officer must have a reasonable need to request details of the civil status operation. It has also taken into account cases concerning the presentation of foreign civil status documents. The Commission took full account of all the amendments proposed. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 6 November, that the second reading be closed and that the draft be sent to third reading, which could be on 7 November. It was also decided to propose the adoption of the draft as a law. All these proposals were made by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U231	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Six proposals have been made to amend the draft, and we will review them. Amendment 1 is proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 2 is proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 3 is proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 4 is proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 5 is proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 6 is proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 464. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U232	Today's eighth item is the first reading of 509 draft law amending the law on the grant of international protection to an alien initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Justice of the Chair, for presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U233	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Let me introduce you, as a representative of the Government of the Republic, to the law granting international protection to an alien and, in connection with it, to the draft law amending other laws. The purpose of the draft is to transpose Directive 2011/95/EU. This Directive concerns the requirements to be met by third-country nationals or stateless persons in order to qualify as beneficiaries of international protection, as well as the requirements for the uniform status of refugees or persons eligible for subsidiary protection and the content of the protection granted. In the future, it will be called the Qualification Directive in short. The Qualification Directive aims to limit the progress of asylum seekers from one EU country to another. Minimum standards are laid down to harmonise criteria for the identification of persons in need of international protection, as well as minimum rights and benefits for those persons in all Member States. The Directive provides for similar rights for beneficiaries of subsidiary protection to refugees and limits the possibility for Member States to derogate from matters relating to medical care and social assistance, access to the labour market, means of integration and family benefits. The Qualification Directive aims to fully equalise the social guarantees granted to refugees and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection, i.e. to waive the exceptions for beneficiaries of subsidiary protection. The main distinction between refugees and categories of beneficiaries of subsidiary protection remains the period of validity of the residence permit. In the case of beneficiaries of subsidiary protection, this is shorter than for those with refugee status. Estonian law already does not distinguish the social rights of beneficiaries of subsidiary protection from those of refugees. Thus, from the point of view of Estonia, the directive does not entail any specific changes to national law. One major change can be the amendment of the Foreign Professional Qualifications Recognition Act. The amendment gives persons who have been granted international protection the opportunity to apply for recognition of their professional qualifications on the basis of the Foreign Professional Qualifications Recognition Act. Currently beneficiaries of international protection are out of the scope of the law. Thanks to the recognition of professional qualifications, persons who have received international protection in Estonia will have access to regulated positions and professions in the Estonian labour market. Estonia is obliged to transpose the Directive into its law by 21 December 2013 at the latest. I believe that, given the relatively small number of sections of the draft law in itself, most of the basic objectives of transposing the directive have been passed on to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U234	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U235	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. If the transposition of this directive is mandatory, it is incomprehensible why we are discussing this draft here at all. But I have a question about § 19 (5) of the Act on the Grant of International Protection to Aliens, more specifically about its addition to paragraph 3, where non-state associations are also considered to be a source of persecution and serious danger. I mean, ever since this change takes effect, in a situation such as the Syrian war, where rebels put not tens but hundreds of thousands of people at risk, all these people will have legal basis in order to gain protection in the Republic of Estonia. Have you thought about the consequences this could have?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U236	Thank you. First of all, the answer to the reply at the beginning of the question. We have generally agreed in the European Union that once the directive has been adopted in the European Union, the Member States must transpose its principles. EU law, as you probably know, is largely a matter of directives and regulations. The regulations are directly applicable. Regulations do not, in principle, have to be transposed; we do not have to write them into our own legislation. However, the Directive gives Member States the opportunity to choose the appropriate means to transpose the principles set out in the Directive. The specific point you referred to is covered by the Directive. I would like to draw your attention to a paragraph of the explanatory statement. It states that, according to the Directive, "the perpetrators of persecution or serious harm are, inter alia, non-state actors, where it can be demonstrated that political parties or organisations, including international organisations, which rule the country or a significant part of the territory of the country, cannot or do not want to provide protection against persecution or serious harm. It is therefore important that the persecutor may also be a non-state actor if the state and international organisations are unable to provide protection, not that those institutions that are unable to provide protection are also persecutors." If we try to assess the impact of this provision, it is certainly difficult to predict. The impact of the law is also set out in the explanatory memorandum, but it has assessed its overall impact, in particular in view of the increase in administrative burden on the competent authorities. Of course, there may be a number of specific cases, but the Ministry of the Interior believes that we should not in the near future face any exponential increase in the number of refugees. However, as we can see from recent border crossings and from various international protection and, above all, asylum applications, they have, indeed, been added. It is part of the democratic rule of law that we offer asylum and international protection. This must be taken into account by a single rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U237	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U238	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. With this amendment of the law, the Estonian state assumes certain additional obligations, as it must guarantee these minimum benefits. Surely this will also lead to a certain amount of money being made available for this purpose. Are there any relevant amounts in the state budget? If so, what line and how are local authorities burdened with these obligations?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U239	If you unblock page 5 of the explanatory memorandum and look at the middle part of the second paragraph below, you will see that, as in other cases of recognition of foreign professional qualifications, the costs of assessing and recognising the professional qualifications of persons granted international protection in Estonia are covered by the budget of each institution competent for the recognition of professional qualifications. The number of applicants for international protection cannot be accurately predicted, but there is no reason to expect a large number of people who would like to recognise their professional qualifications here. Therefore, no significant additional costs should be incurred by the competent authorities. This assessment has been made, and I believe that officials of the Ministry of the Interior have also been in contact with other responsible ministries, particularly the Ministry of Education and Research, in designing it. There should be no state budget problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U240	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U241	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Minister, for reading the explanatory statement. I have to say I can read and I've read it. We are now creating a situation where the next 100,000, 200,000, 300,000 refugees from an African country can peacefully choose Estonia as their habitat. In our neighbouring countries, Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden, Finland, this figure is growing strongly. The point is that we are being smeared with a directive that does not leave us with the option of refusing to accept even those fleeing the war. In Syria, for example, the current government is failing. Have you discussed that these tens of thousands of refugees may come to us from next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U242	I wouldn't advise you to cause unnecessary panic. Stay within the framework of the bill. The draft concerns, in particular, the requirements of professional qualifications and their recognition, the minimum requirements for certain persons. Linking the draft to universal international protection is arbitrary in this context. The figures you have referred to are certainly not realistic, so I will not comment further on them here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U243	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. I would like to ask Mart Nut, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U244	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This draft law was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its regular meeting on 21 October. Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, Ly Pärn, Adviser to the Department of Migration and Border Guard Policy at the Ministry of the Interior, Kaire Sepper, Legal Adviser to the same department, and Tiia Raudma, Adviser to the Department of Higher Education at the Ministry of Education and Research were invited. The draft law did not receive a very long debate, especially because of its technical nature. Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, who attended the meeting, gave the Commission a sufficient overview of the draft. The issue raised in detail by the Commission concerned the recognition of foreign qualification requirements. Especially what it looks like. Mrs Raudma, an official of the Ministry of Education and Research, answered that question. I'm going to read his answer, but I assume everyone can read, but this document is probably not on all of our desks. Ms Raudma explained that the current law on the recognition of foreign professional qualifications transposed the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications and initially applied to the countries of the European Union. It has since been extended to the countries of the European Economic Area and Switzerland. The European Union has therefore established, on its own initiative, rules on nationals of the European Union and the countries of the European Economic Area and Switzerland and on members of their families who are not nationals of those countries. These are foreigners who are then resident in the country on the basis of a long-term residence permit. This system is constantly becoming more liberal as countries have very different qualifications and education systems, as well as qualification requirements for certain positions. The directive seeks to establish the rules under which a Member State must act. For example, if someone from another country comes here who is a teacher, you cannot tell him that we have a different education system. This person must be dealt with, his or her qualifications must be identified and his or her qualifications must be compared. Where there are major differences, it is possible to require the person seeking recognition to take compensation measures. The reference decision is taken by the competent authority and the directive sets out how this institution must behave with people, what a person has the right to demand and what he does not have. The problem arises when a person does not have evidence of his or her education with him or her. The question is to what extent documents can be requested from a person who simply does not have them or has been deliberately destroyed. There is still no experience in this regard in the old Member States. In the past, there have also been problems with the counterfeiting of documents. Mrs. Raudma explained that we have the Ministry as the competent authority, which sets out some limitations in the law in its area of competence requirements. In Estonia, this work is generally done by the Ministry of Education and Research, which primarily concerns teachers, but, for example, in the case of health professionals, the competent institution is the Health Board. Finally, the procedural decisions adopted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. All decisions were taken by consensus. The proposal was to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 6 November, to propose that the first reading be closed, to set the deadline for amendments at 16 a.m. on 15 November and to appoint Mart Nutt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U245	Thank you very much. There's a question for you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U246	Thank you. Dear colleague, did the Commission mention how this directive has been adopted in other Member States?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U247	This was not specified at the meeting of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U248	No further questions. Thanks a lot, Mart Nutt! Let's open the negotiations. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin as representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U249	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It sounded like I was trying to scare you with some nonexistent threat. It's not like that, and you know it perfectly! Just now is the moment to think about what will change in Estonia's demographic picture and how anything can be learned from what has already happened in Europe. In 2000, I visited England, where possible solutions to the problem of racism were discussed. It was a very interesting ride. For life, it was remembered that between 1990 and 1999, the number of new emigrants in Britain increased from 1% to 10% of the population. Nobody thinks that's what they wanted, given the needs of the labour market, etc. It just happened. One personal experience, too. A good acquaintance once moved from Estonia to Lithuania for family reasons and then to Sweden. It was in 2002 or 2003. He bought a very beautiful house in a beautiful town in southern Sweden. At the moment, the money invested in his house has been left to some extent, as the demographic situation has changed in the area. Now he needs to speak Turkish and Arabic rather than Swedish. Well, that would be more useful. And, of course, this house doesn't cost much anymore. Last year, one of the most memorable news reports was that in a relatively small Swedish town, the city government said no to a group of citizens who wanted to receive support to erect a Christmas tree in the middle of the city. They were told that this was contrary to the religious views of most of the city's inhabitants. And the mayor who gave that answer was Arabic. I'm not trying to develop xenophobia here. But given that in more than 20 years, the whole process of integration, which has been attempted to integrate non-Estonians, most of whom have lived a lifetime in Estonia, has failed completely, I can imagine the problems that may arise when people with foreign culture, language and religion start to form an increasing part of the population in Estonia. So, in my opinion, the government and the smartest of us sitting on the right side of me in this Chamber could now think a little ahead of us that in 20 years' time, we wouldn't have to cry because someone just wanted to let some directive through. That's all. I'm not trying to scare anyone wrong. Look to Europe, and you will see what awaits us if we do not take any action! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U250	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 509. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. 15 November 2010 at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U251	Today's ninth item is the first reading of the Act amending the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities and other Acts, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Justice of the Chair, for presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U252	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Let me introduce to you draft law amending the general part of the Code of Economic Activities and other laws 504. To summarise briefly, the purpose of the draft before you is to postpone the entry into force of the Act on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities. But there is a need to make some changes to a couple of laws in this regard. The reason why the bill has been brought before you is quite practical. Indeed, the entry into force of the Act on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities is very direct in relation to the Law Enforcement Act, to be exact, the draft law amending and implementing the Law on Law Enforcement. The procedure for this draft is in the final stages of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Hopefully, the big hall will be able to pass this law before Christmas. However, in order to enforce this law, it makes sense to give the law on the amendment and implementation of the Law of Law Enforcement a sufficient period of vacatio legis, i.e. transitional or entry into force. Consequently, it is a reasonable time for the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities to be granted the same law. As a result of the postponement of the entry into force of the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act, the draft includes proposals for amending the current Health Services Organisation Act, which specify the provisions relating to the application for and the decision to grant a licence to a health care provider. The regulation of nursing hospital in the Health Services Organisation Act is already originally planned (separately from the entry into force of the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act) to enter into force on 1 January 2014. It can't be delayed. A new type of hospital is known to be established instead of a nursing hospital. Maintenance services, which are currently covered by specialist medical care, will become a permanent nursing care service from 1 January. The legislative amendment will have the most impact on the activities of current care providers, who will continue to provide an independent inpatient nursing care service and will have to adapt their activities to the new requirements. As the deadline for the entry into force of the Act on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, as I said, is postponed by half a year, it is necessary to amend the provisions of the Act on the organisation of health services, adopted by the Riigikogu but not yet in force, concerning, as I said, the authorisation of the regulation of nursing hospital. Consequently, these provisions should also enter into force on 1 January 2014. In addition to the Health Services Organisation Act, changes are also planned in the Security Act and the Media Services Act. In particular, if no amendments were to be made, the provisions of those laws would enter into force under the regulation of the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, which is not yet in force at that time. It is therefore also necessary to enforce the provisions of the Security Act and the Media Services Act at the same time as the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities. That's all I have to say to you about this bill. We certainly support the proposal to conclude the first reading and adopt the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U253	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. There are no questions for you. I would like the Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Kaja Kallas, to give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U254	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the first reading of the draft law amending the general part of the Code of Economic Activities and other laws on 5 November 2013. At the meeting of the Commission, this draft was presented by Mr Hanno Pevkur, Minister for Justice, Mr Illimar Pärnamägi, Head of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, and Madis Timpson, Adviser to the Minister. There was no very substantive or long debate, as it was only a matter of delaying the date of entry into force. Following a brief discussion, the Commission decided to make proposals for the completion of the first reading of the draft (consensus) and to set the deadline of 14 November 2013 at 5 p.m. (also by consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U255	Thank you very much, Mr Kallas. No questions for you either. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 504 amendments. November 14th at 5 p.m. First reading of Bill 504 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U256	The first reading of the Act on the Foundations of the Property Reform of the Republic of Estonia, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, and related amendments to other laws, begins at 480. For a presentation, please, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U257	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The amendments proposed by the draft act are intended to speed up the recovery and compensation of unlawfully disposed assets and to reduce costs. The amendments are as follows: Firstly, it provides for the cessation of the activities of legitimate subjects and of the register of assets to be returned and compensated. The functions of the register to be closed shall be transferred to the Ministry of Finance. The volume of operations in this register has decreased significantly, with only about 0.5% of returns and compensations not completed. Until the procedures are completed, open file records shall be kept in the documentation register of the Ministry of Finance. Secondly, it is proposed to set a specific time limit of 90 days for rural parents (the general rule is 30 days) in order to ensure that more time-consuming monitoring activities for ownership reform are completed by the deadline. The Act of the Government of the Republic adds a reference to the possibility of setting a special rule in other laws. Thirdly, instead of 50% of all the money received from privatisation, it is proposed that the reserve fund for the ownership reform of the Government of the Republic be replaced by a stabilisation reserve. The share of privatisation money in the stabilisation reserve is very low, at 1.4% of the volume. This does not significantly affect reserve capacity. In 2013, the privatisation of the land is expected to generate EUR 9 million. Up to 2020, revenue will decrease linearly at the same rate, on average by EUR 1 million per year. It is important to ensure that the compensation paid from the property reform reserve fund is paid out to the Estonian Orthodox Church, for example. Fourthly, the draft aims to centralise and simplify the compensation procedure for assets. In the future, the creditor will submit the application for payment of the compensation directly to the Ministry of Finance. Until then, it was forwarded to the Ministry of Finance by the local government. Simplifying the application process will allow the deadline for submission to be reduced from six to three months. At the time of entry into force of the draft, we plan 1 January 2014. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U258	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U259	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I read this sentence in the bill: "If the mayor finds that an administrative act or failure to give an administrative act of a local authority is unlawful and violates the public interest, he may within 90 days... " But why? If he thinks the act is, say, illegal, then I think he has to make a suggestion, it's not right to say that he can do it. Are you extending our knowledge in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U260	Thank you. This "may" refers, of course, to this deadline. 90 days is a special. I suppose you can look at this text with a lawyer's eye to find out if this sentence can be ambiguous. However, the extension of this deadline is, according to the parties concerned, necessary because the area is complex.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U261	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I invite Jaan Apple Tree, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, to give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U262	President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The Economic Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the sending of the law on the basis of the property reform initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with this, the draft law amending other laws to the first reading on Monday, i.e. a on November 4. Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance, and Mr Uku Hänni, Adviser to the Treasury Department, were invited to the meeting of the Commission. Minister Ligi gave an overview of the most important changes to be made to the draft, which we have heard in this Chamber today. The debate was not very long, but I would like to highlight a few of the questions asked by the members of the Commission to the Minister. Firstly, they wanted to know the extent to which the costs of closing the register of the subjects and the assets to be returned and compensated were justified. The answer was EUR 40000. There was also an interest in how much money is currently in the reserve fund of the Government's property reform. The answer was that although the fund's money is coming in, there is no money for a larger payout now. It was decided to make proposals for the completion of the first reading and to set a deadline of one week, i.e. 13 November 2013 at 17.00. Both decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U263	Thank you very much, Mr Jaan Apple Tree. No questions for you either. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for submitting 480 amendments. November 13, 2005 at 5 p.m. The first reading of the draft 480 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U264	The first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, entitled "Accepting the State's 2012 Annual Summary Report." Once again, I would like to ask Mr Jürgen Ligi, ladies and gentlemen, to present the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U265	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Estonia was successful in many respects in 2012. The economic recovery from the global economic crisis, which started two years earlier, continued and Estonia's GDP reached its peak in 2007. Growth slowed to 3.2% in 2012 as a characteristic of the patterns of economic cycles, but it was still the fastest in the euro area. A favourable economic environment also meant declining inflation, a continuing decline in unemployment, an increase in employment and an acceleration of real wage growth. Estonia continued its conservative fiscal policy. While the country's fiscal strategy for 2012-2015 estimated the general government budget position for 2012 at 2.1% of GDP, a better result was actually achieved. Thanks to a favourable economic environment and responsible use of money, the government deficit was only 0.3% of GDP. The 2012 headlines were the full transition of Estonia to the open electricity market, the improvement of internal security as a result of the decline in crime, comprehensive international activity, higher education reform, increased research and development, as well as the reduction of the unemployment insurance rate. The submitted summary report for the financial year is presented on the basis of the accounts of all public entities. It consists of an annual report and accounts and contains data on the state, local government, government and public sector as a whole. The general government's net result was EUR 375 million in 2012, compared to EUR 84 million a year earlier. The deficit was 4.6 million euros, or 0.3% of GDP, and the debt-to-GDP ratio reached 1.7 billion euros at the end of 2012, or 10% of GDP. The EFSF is known to play an important role in this increase. This debt ratio increased by 3.9 percentage points over the year. The general government revenue in 2012 was 7.1 billion euros, which is 616 million euros more than in 2011. The costs amounted to EUR 6.7 billion, which is EUR 156 million more than a year earlier. According to the audit report submitted by the National Audit Office, the 2012 annual accounts of the state are substantially correct and the most important economic transactions of the state were carried out in accordance with the State Budget Act. The accounting arrangements have improved during the year in most ministries and areas of their administration. The National Audit Office pointed out that the report on the implementation of the state budget is difficult to understand, its structure does not comply with the state budget law, and the structure of the budget implementation report is not the same as that of the budget. At the same time, the planning and use of the budget in ministries has improved over the year. The Ministry of Finance changed the structure of the 2013 budget so that the same structure could be reported in the future. The National Audit Office found shortcomings in public procurement, such as the lack of planned monitoring and the lack of transparency of the procurement procedure. The statement of the National Audit Office is incorrect. The Ministry of Finance carries out planned monitoring of public procurement every year. It represented 17% of the total monitoring volume in 2012 and 36% by 29 October 2013. Obviously, control is random, not obscene. It will continue to increase and a risk analysis will be prepared at the end of 2013 to support more systematic monitoring. For better transparency, public authorities' leaders should pay more attention to e-procurement. This year, 6676 procurements have been published in the register, of which 2761 or 41.3% will be carried out as e-procurement. The National Audit Office found that when transferring state assets to RKAS, public authorities have to take account of the significant increase in rent costs, but there is no explanation where this increase will be found. Only if the current costs include depreciation of real estate and management personnel costs can we talk about comparable figures. The principles for setting the rental price have been agreed in a tripartite manner, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, the RKAS and the rulers of state assets, and confirmed by a government decree. Both the amounts required for the transfer to the rental model and the investments are planned in the state budget. Honourable Riigikogu! Estonia has managed to grow its economy and, at the same time, to adhere to the principle of conservative fiscal policy. If we continue on the chosen course, I am sure that our country will continue to develop in the expected positive direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U266	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Starts with colleague Priit onion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U267	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have a question about what the National Audit Office has pointed out. We have adopted the 2012 state budget and today we are approving the consolidated annual report. But the Ministry of the Environment, for example, has a difference of quite several hundred million euros here, and the Ministry of Finance, too. I understand that, in most cases, this concerns European funds. When we adopted the budget, we forecast possible expenditure, but we did not have time to realise all of them during the financial year. Do you think this is just a question of description, or is there a substantive problem? If this is only a description problem, do we have any means to better describe the figures in the budget and in the summary report to be equally understandable and readable?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U268	Thank you. Budgeting means budgeting as much as possible according to what might happen, but we do not know everything in advance and any changes still have to be made in a year. I dare say that this subject is overrated and lives another life of its own. Questions are submitted and newspaper headlines ask where EUR 200 million disappeared, etc. It's misleading not to say false. At the beginning of the year, for example, in the case of CO2 quotas, it is not known who will receive this money, it depends on which ministry how much documents can be prepared. However, no one doubts that all this money will not be put away by the Ministry of the Environment. The same is true of other sums. As far as possible, it is immediately written into the budget, which needs to be changed during the year, amended and then described in the report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U269	Please, colleague Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U270	Thank you. Dear Minister, In its assessment of the annual report, the National Audit Office has dealt with these matters a little more widely. Some things have bothered me a little bit, I haven't been sure that's the way it is. For example, the National Audit Office has argued that if economic growth remains around 1% in the second half of this year, this could mean a significant setback for the Treasury. Today we know that economic growth will indeed remain this way. Yesterday was also the European Commission's forecast. But I've been monitoring the budget receipts, and according to the receipt of at least the first ten months, revenue has been perfectly normal. Is there really a risk that in the last two months of the year there might be a revenue gap? I don't believe it, but I'm gonna ask if there's a risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U271	Thank you. I have not been able to look at the data for the last month, but we generally have independent forecasts and reports are presented according to them. Indeed, we have no deficit compared to the budget, there has been some overcharge. But this statement is one of the relatively small inaccuracies in the National Audit Office's report. There's a lot more serious inaccuracies there, and we'll have to talk about them too.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U272	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U273	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I come back to the shift from one budget line to another. You said you couldn't plan everything exactly what was right. At the same time, § 41 of the State Budget Act says that the Government of the Republic may come before the Riigikogu if the change occurs without changing the total cost. In principle, or in your opinion, it is normal that, if the budget changes in half the amount of the budget to 400 million and finally to be 200 million, but it is claimed that the budget has not been amended, but that it is later fine-tuned, then there will not be such a significant change in the budget to the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U274	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U275	Thank you. That's not what the law requires. If you show me this exact section, I can make you hang out with lawyers specializing in budget matters. The Ministry of Finance has the best such lawyers. I don't see a problem of substance. Even if the formal approach is somehow proven, it does not change the content. Nobody stole the money, as claimed. The money has gone exactly where it was supposed to go and as stated in the explanatory memorandum. That is a pointlessly raised question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U276	Thank you. I'll tell you what the real problem is. The question is not only that both the Riigikogu and the National Audit Office, whose duty it is, are difficult to control who and how this money has been used. It's also a question of something else. If this quota money is first on the line of the Ministry of the Environment as income and is passed on as an expense to other ministries, then the need for change is linked to a simple fact: the Riigikogu has not approved any agreement on the basis of which the quota money is used anywhere. It's a constitutional issue. Who has granted the government the right to use these millions without the Riigikogu giving its approval?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U277	The law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U278	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U279	Thank you, Madam Chairwoman. Good minister! My question, too, stems from the views of the National Audit Office on this subject. This concerns the activities of Riigi Kinnisvara AS. The National Audit Office clearly states that rents have increased. Specific data on the various ministries, where this increase has been in millions of euros, are presented here. I've also read the statements from the Treasury Department. You do not agree with this statement. However, the National Audit Office says that they have received this information from the material of the Ministry of Finance, which has been submitted to the meeting of the Government of the Republic. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U280	Thank you. But what should I comment on? The National Audit Office has supported and considered reasonable the transition to economically sound prices in the course of the real estate reform. If we forget that houses are falling apart, then it does not make these costs to the state impossible, but we simply do not write them down. Trust the government and the Minister of Finance. We need to find cover for this expense or move more people into the same room. This is what is happening now: improving the insulation of buildings, reducing the space available to people and selling redundant real estate. It's a very long process, but we're not fooling ourselves by forgetting the depreciation. We also have one of those people in the government who says he's got the ground cheaply and that's why he doesn't have to join the real estate reform. Well, then let him play it with one surface, but in the end, it still doesn't change the reality. Currently, a state institution is moving into a new building. Previously, the institution was on a very favourable ground and had obtained a long-term lease contract. However, the owners of the building went bankrupt, sold the contract further, and now that this institution is moving to a new house, the house is going to be demolished because the depreciation had not been included in the costs. That's how it works. Not a cent was invested in this building for many years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U281	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U282	First of all, no law gives the government the right to violate the Constitution. But since we are currently dealing with the basic law of the state budget, and this issue has remained unsolved in the same way, I ask: does the Minister think it is right that the government essentially uses hundreds of millions of euros without the approval of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U283	Thank you. The government operates only within the limits set by the Riigikogu and the Constitution, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U284	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U285	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. General government assets increased by 8% over the year, but liabilities increased by 17% over the year. Don't you think this pace is fast?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U286	I'm sorry, I lost the keyword that this 17% was about. I can't hear you. Please, can I get a wire set up?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U287	Duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U288	Estonia's responsibilities, got it. I've already talked about these responsibilities in the speech, and I've talked about them a few more times. The EFSF guarantee is neither a loan we have taken nor a cost we have made, but the disbursements under the EFSF guarantee are estimated to be in the accounts of the EFSF shareholders. It's not our expense. It's an indirect risk, but it's not our expense, it's not our loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U289	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U290	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! There is such a thing as the international standard for public sector accounting, which Estonia has also adopted. According to this standard, the budget adopted by Parliament, the final budget and then the actual use of the budget must be presented in a comparable manner to that adopted by Parliament. It is also necessary to clarify the reasons for the substantial differences between the proposed budget and the actual use of the budget. It's not like someone stole 200 million euros. The question is why the report currently under discussion does not take these principles into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U291	Thank you. This report shall take account of all the principles laid down. I'll stick to that. You can try it again, but I'll say it the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U292	Please, Mr Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U293	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The money from the sale of the CO2 quota in the budget of the Ministry of the Environment has received a great deal of attention in this Chamber. This was also addressed in the Commission. It is clear that the members of the Riigikogu, by adopting the budget, see and understand where specific investments are made. Many tax receipts are predictable in the budgetary process. Should we consider the possibility of amending the law in the future? It is clear that the government works on the basis of the law. Is it necessary to amend the law so that large amounts such as EUR 200 million can be further specified in the budget during the financial year? As Minister of Finance, what do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U294	Thank you. I do not rule out these paragraphs being taken up and thought ahead. But look at how the money from this CO2 quota was used. For years, no one could handle quota sales more vigorously. The fact that the quota was sold at all was a very big success story for the Estonian state, but unfortunately there were very short deadlines. It was not possible that the sale could have been accurately predicted at all. At the same time, the money was very precisely labelled, it could only be used for the purpose which the quota buyers agreed to. This was not a Riigikogu issue. The Riigikogu could have intervened only in such a way that it would have prohibited quota sales by decision. He could only have ruined the negotiation process, and there was no way he could have contributed to it. I'm afraid that's the case. I do not know how we could have foreseen this in the law, all the more so because the deadlines were so short. For example, at one point, the RKAS needed to heat up about a thousand objects. The collection of applications and evaluation of projects took place at an enormous pace. It can be assumed that decisions made in a hurry were not of the highest quality. However, it is not possible that this could have been part of a parliamentary process. It was not possible to coordinate this in Parliament. We would have lost that money then, which we heard all along in these negotiations. I can't tell you how to make this more compatible with our constitution. Is this a rejection or exclusion of Parliament if we do not sell the quota and do not invest? I don't think so. I think Parliament understands that in essence. If he thinks there's anything more in the law, give him advice, I'm all ears.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U295	Please, Mr Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U296	Thank you. Good minister! The National Audit Office claims that the principles of the State Property Act were not respected when granting the Estonian Air loan to AS. This is precisely in the sense that state assets were not managed prudently and economically, because it was known that this loan would probably not be recovered. How do you comment on this complaint?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U297	Thank you. Well, if I'm smart afterwards, I can say all kinds of things. It's probably a matter of state property law. But in the case at hand, there was a decisive economic approach, it was still a business, a very risky business. There are risks in business. This company's assets cannot be treated (shares can indeed be treated in the same way as furniture or office building, for example. We had quite different ideas about what to do with Estonian Air. My personal opinion was conservative, I did not leave it out in the government, but I did not fail to say that I do not know this area. The aviation business is complicated, especially when it's already burning. I saw the risks there and pointed out that the risks that have caused the losses have been described, and these descriptions only indicate how fragile this thing is. But I wasn't smarter than Tero Taskila or the current leader Palmér. This is the risk for these state companies that the political minister is responsible, but it is a specific business and this business has not been sold by the state. It's been wanted, but it hasn't worked. Now we're smarter, we've saved what can be saved. The situation has improved considerably, but of course you can always complain that there were no professional company leaders in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U298	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U299	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, One of the most common errors detected by the National Audit Office in its audits every year is that long-term commitments are made when concluding lease contracts, and that they are not planned as financing transactions when drawing up the budget. It is known that the State Budget Act currently prohibits public authorities from taking on long-term liabilities lasting over one financial year. Why is this mistake repeated year after year, and what are you going to do to keep it from happening again?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U300	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I ask the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U301	Thank you. I have done everything in my power, and I will do more in the future. I do not currently find this place in the National Audit Office's report, nor do I recognise this complaint. I guess I'll have to take a closer look. In general, since the beginning of my term of office, this has been one of the activities towards the state and local governments, up to the foundations. During the crisis, all of this was taken into account and the country has become increasingly wiser. I think we already passed certain laws here together before that. But it's all history. In any case, progress has been made in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U302	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you a briefing on the draft decision bearing number 476. This is the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the approval of the State's 2012 consolidated report. This is the first reading of this draft. The Commission discussed the draft on 14 October. As representatives of the initiator, the draft was presented by Juta Maar, Head of State Accountant, and Tarvo Vaarmets, Adviser to the State Budget Department of the Ministry of Finance. Auditor General Alar Karis also attended the meeting of the Commission, who presented the National Audit Office's audit report on the 2012 consolidated report of the state and information on the use and preservation of state assets. I will also repeat the purpose of the report, why it is on the table today. The purpose of this report is to enable the Riigikogu to perform the function of controlling the government, to give the government the opportunity to explain its activities during the accounting year and to provide the Riigikogu with information for new budgetary decisions. The consolidated annual report for 2012 shall consist of the following elements: the annual activity report, the consolidated and non-consolidated annual accounts of the State, additional information on local authorities and additional information on the public sector and government sector. The summary report includes the audit report of the National Audit Office. The main conclusions of the National Audit Office are as follows: The 2012 annual accounts of the State are substantially correct, i.e. the report correctly and fairly reflects the state's financial position and the economic results and cash flows of the reporting period that ended. According to the National Audit Office, the state's most important economic transactions have been carried out in accordance with the State Budget Act and the State Budget Act 2012 and the Amending Act. This means that there were no significant errors found by the National Audit Office in the implementation of budget laws. At the same time, the National Audit Office found shortcomings in the acquisition of state assets and the organisation of its use. I will give an overview of some of the issues and questions that were discussed in the Commission. It was noted that the report on the implementation of the state budget and the state budget is not fully comparable, that the figures do not match, that they are difficult to compare and that it is difficult to use. Such criticisms were made in the Commission. It was noted that as a result of the transfer of state assets to the RKAS, the burden on the state budget has increased, as the transfer requires additional resources in connection with the rent on market conditions and the renovation of the transferred buildings. It was also pointed out that, when it comes to the need for space for public authorities and organisations, optimisation does not work on special-purpose assets, such as museums and prisons, but it is possible to move forward with an optimisation programme for general-purpose assets such as offices. Public procurement was also at issue, in many respects. Public procurement disputes were discussed. The Auditor General also stated that the problems are part of the self-definition of companies under the dominant influence of the state, mainly in relation to whether or not they are contracting authorities within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act. He gave examples and said that there were five companies with which these disputes were taking place, now there are three. The members of the Commission were interested in what those organisations or companies did not want to define themselves as contracting authorities. Several establishments were issued. The Auditor General stopped at local government level. He said that voluntary accession has not solved all the problems with local authorities. The lack of money is a clear problem and there is still no clear relationship between the state and the local government. It's a recurring theme from year to year. We discussed the principles of the report. I will explain how one budget and its follow-up will take place until the control report. The preliminary budget for the following year will be drawn up first. Possible changes will be made in the reporting year, additional budgets will be drawn up when there is a need for them, and in the end there will be a final budget that has already been cleaned, looking back to the previous year, and all budget lines will have actual receipts. It was about the sale of the CO2 quota. It took a longer approach today in this Chamber, and it was discussed in the Commission, and there is nothing to add to it. There was a much longer discussion in the Chamber today than in the Commission, but the idea also remained that the members of the Riigikogu do not actually see during the process where the specific additional resources received during the financial year (for this example, the funds received from the sale of the CO2 quota) are invested. The question was why the State was a shareholder in one company or another. The Auditor General raised this issue. It still requires analysis and it needs to be seen whether the country needs to be a partner in one organisation or another. He also pointed out that in one of the well-known Estonian companies, this percentage of participation was probably less than 1%. Finally, some statistics for 2012. According to the spring forecast by the Ministry of Finance, growth was expected to be 1.7% in 2012, in fact growth was 3.2% in 2012. This was Europe's fastest growth. Speaking of the budgetary position, we have to say that we have adopted the 2012 budget in a situation where the forecast deficit of 2.6% of GDP was actually 0.3%. These are positive messages. The Commission also adopted decisions. All these decisions were consensual. We decided to put the draft on the agenda for first reading on Wednesday, 6 November and to propose that the first reading be closed. We also decided to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 11 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U303	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. You have questions. Please, colleague Valeri Korb, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U304	Thank you. Good colleague, you had a good look. But what are you gonna say when you ask what's troubling you?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U305	I am here as chairman of the committee to give an overview of what happened in the committee. I will try to keep you fully informed and to convey to you all the emotions and all the discussion. There's nothing new or strange about the troubles. What the National Audit Office has done, and what has been done year after year, are these problems. We want to see more and more transparency. Estonia is small and, in fact, its budget, daily expenses and daily activities are easily understandable. In some major European countries, I find it much more difficult to understand all of this, from the tax system to the day-to-day functioning of the country. I think we're a very simple country in a very good way. At the same time, however, there are activities that need to be more critical. Let us look at the state budget procedure, it must be clear how this money moves, it must be possible to read it in the explanatory memorandum. In fact, these are all such matters that you could talk about. But I think that the problems highlighted by the National Audit Office can in principle be accepted. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U306	Please, colleague Priit onion, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U307	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good front speaker! How much did the Commission consider that the budget and the summary report are not comparable? Can we do something about processing the 2013 summary report in the Riigikogu and the 2014 state budget so that we do not have to stumble over the same problems when discussing the next budgets?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U308	Thank you, my good colleague. In my report, I pointed out, as one of the first points, that the implementation report is harder to follow, I am not saying impossible, but heavier. I think that all the observations we make every year, including now, from the Riigikogu Chair, are somewhat reflected there. Once again, all financial management and the functioning of the state have become increasingly clear from year to year. I believe that next year we will see an even better and more effective report by the National Audit Office. At least I hope the Government of the Republic will do its utmost to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U309	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U310	As Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, do you think that, in such cases, the Minister of Finance could at least come to the Committee on Monetary Affairs and explain where public money is being invested?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U311	That was a good question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U312	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U313	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I will come back for a moment to the investments made in CO2 quota money. Here and in the Committee on Monetary Affairs we talked about this. In fact, it is a bit disturbing when certain money goes past the Chamber and Members do not know where the money will be invested. In a sense, the Minister of Finance accused Parliament here that it was urgent and could not even have been dealt with; the statements needed to be met quickly. [[J. Nearly speaking from the position.]] Shut up! [[Laughter.]] I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U314	Can I talk to you now? Thank you. I'll be more specific first. I was also in the Chamber, but I did not hear the Minister of Finance say that it is so urgent and the Riigikogu is incompetent or the Riigikogu has no time. I'm sure he didn't mention it. It pointed out that in the case of quota sales there was a situation where decisions had to be made relatively quickly. These decisions concerned nearly a thousand apartment buildings in a given example. I think the question is what level of decision we should take. By further developing this example, I can say that I do not think the Riigikogu should discuss which specific housing cooperative should be given the money. I don't think we should do that. I do not rule out that if there has been some additional revenue that has not been taken into account in the past or for which an item of expenditure has not yet been found, the government could come before Parliament or the Committee on Monetary Affairs. If the quota has been sold or any other income has been received, and it was not possible to predict the exact rate of this income in the past and it has not been taken into account on the cost side, then the government comes before the Finance Committee or the Riigikogu and generally announces that, for example, 20 million euros are planned for the insulation programme of apartment buildings. Why not, we can certainly continue the debate on this matter. Perhaps it is reasonable that the Riigikogu or at least the Committee on Monetary Affairs should know about this. I think it's a debate place.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U315	Good Minister of Finance, please do not comment when members of the Riigikogu ask questions! If it's hard for you to shut up in the hall, please come sit here next to me! Eiki Nestor raised his hand. Any questions? [[Eiki Nestor speaks from position.]] We finished this discussion. The next question is Mr Tammelt.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U316	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I also ask about the CO2 quota money that came up unexpectedly in the state budget. If there are other unexpected sources of income in the state budget during the year, can they be treated in the same way and the government can distribute this money as it sees fit?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U317	Thank you. So let's still specify one comma of the other. Remember, if we accept the state budget, we plan certain revenues. Let's take taxes as an example. We see in advance, using analytical formulas, on the basis of certain expectations and growth forecasts, that there is a specific amount of tax. If this amount has proved to be higher (because of our good and right right-wing economy, which we have seen in recent years, it has been so), the government has taken the view that all receipts that exceed the planned revenue will not be re-implemented by means of additional budgets, but will be channelled into reserves in order to survive difficult times. So the answer is no. If any revenue is planned and these revenues clearly exceed what is forecast, the cost documents have not been presented to them on this table, at least during this coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U318	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? Please, Mr Sõerd, as representative of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U319	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu a summary report for the 2012 financial year, which shows the country's consolidated results in 2012 at EUR 211.3 million and the consolidated assets will amount to EUR 11.7 billion as of the last day of 2012. The assurance that the report drawn up by the Ministry of Finance is correct provides an assessment of this report by the state auditor, the National Audit Office. The assessment was that the report correctly and fairly reflects the country's financial position, the economic outcome of the reporting period ending and the cash flows of the country. The report on the implementation of the state budget, which is part of the annual report, shows that the difference between total government revenue and total expenditure, i.e. the budgetary position, turned out to be better than previously planned in 2012. A deficit above 2% of GDP was found to be significantly lower over the year, with a deficit of 0.3%. According to the budget implementation report, the country's revenue for 2012 was €6.4 billion and expenditure was €6.5 billion. Despite the slowdown in economic growth, economic growth in Estonia remained the fastest in the euro area and, according to the main factual indicators, the year was a success. Inflation started to decline, unemployment continued to decline, employment increased and real wage growth accelerated. Stable economic growth and positive prospects for future development create the necessary ground to improve the well-being of the population. In 2012, wage growth exceeded price growth, reflected in a 1.7% increase in real wages. In addition to a positive opinion on the annual report, the National Audit Office has traditionally presented estimates of the development of the state within a wider range than one financial year and assessed the development prospects, problems and risks of the Estonian state more generally. Clearly, the assessment of the National Audit Office is necessary information material for both members of the Riigikogu and the general public, but consequently the factual material presented in it and the assessments made from its surface must objectively reflect the situation and assess our future prospects impartially. If these estimates and material are inaccurate, it devalues the credibility of the whole estimate as a valuable source of information. I myself read the whole report, and I really did have a lot of questions. I asked a question to the Minister of Finance today. This concerned the National Audit Office's claim that this year, revenue from the state budget may not be collected in the planned amount. There was even mention of a large downfall. Well, it's not like that. Indeed, economic growth is likely to be close to 1.3%, confirmed by the European Commission's forecast published yesterday. However, there is no budget gap, at least not in the first ten months. Clearly, many other factors affect budget receipts than the percentage of economic growth, but they have not been assessed by the National Audit Office. I was also disturbed by one of the issues relating to European Union subsidies. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U320	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U321	The National Audit Office has said that the excessive share of external support is a risk to public finances in the long term, when the volume of support starts to decrease, a choice must be made whether to maintain or significantly reduce the usual budget volume. It's not like that. This year's budget has increased and the current budget for 2014 has also increased quite considerably. Perhaps we can see that financial coverage for previously funded areas of the European Union has been found from national funds. It should also be taken into account that a number of investment projects have been completed and that a number of ad hoc programmes do not need to continue in the future. After all, the practical situation is that in 2012 government investment also accounted for 5.5% of GDP, a much higher figure than the EU average of 2.3%. But, of course, many of the problems identified in the National Audit Office's report and repeated in the report year-on-year, are given, for example, budget revenue flexibility, the fact that revenue-related expenditure is prescribed by law, as well as the increasing proportion of social costs, of course, are not quick solutions and the National Audit Office does not offer them either. While we are dealing with different draft laws and topics in the Riigikogu, we must pay more attention to how to promote economic growth and how to create conditions to increase the productivity of our labour force and the added value created by companies. If the productivity of our companies is 69% of the European Union average (in the processing industry it is only 51%), there is no way that the standard of living and income of Estonian people can quickly reach the European Union average. Yesterday, the European Commission published its autumn economic forecast. This predicts faster economic growth for the Baltic States than for the European Union as a whole. At the same time, however, we can see that the Commission is predicting faster growth for Latvia and Lithuania than it is for us. In this situation, we should consider whether we in the Riigikogu have dealt thoroughly enough with issues that help to create the prerequisites for economic growth. Economic growth, in turn, is a prerequisite for improving people's well-being and income growth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U322	Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 476 amendments. a on 11 November 2006 at 5 p.m. First reading of Bill 476 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U323	The next item is an overview of the use and preservation of state assets in 2012 and the accuracy of the country's 2012 annual recapitulative statement and the legality of transactions. Before I invite the honourable Auditor General, Alar Karis, to speak on the floor, I will present to you how this item is to be dealt with. First, the report by Auditor General Alar Karis, which lasts up to 35 minutes, follows the questions to the rapporteur. May I have your attention, please? A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Subsequent negotiations, where only representatives of the political groups can speak. I ask for a presentation by Auditor General Alar Karise of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U324	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to be the Auditor General of the State for the first time in front of you when presenting the annual report of the National Audit Office. Thank you for the opportunity to stress over my important messages concerning the problems of the development and economy of the Estonian state, as well as some possible solutions. First of all, a few words to remind you of which documents we are talking about. The Minister of Finance, who has just left this remote control, presented you with the State's 2012 financial year summary report, which in turn is covered by the audit report of the National Audit Office. This is the blue cover report that's been distributed to you. My main point, however, is from another report, which is also on your desk, but it is with red covers. What is the difference between these documents? In broad terms, the blue-covered audit report deals with the state's accounts and the legality of transactions, while the red-covered overview discusses the problems of the Estonian economy, finances and administration, which affect the welfare of each citizen and the entire state, our whole future. I'll start with the blue cover in the report. I can confirm that the state accounts are in good order and that the government has used taxpayers' money legally. Mostly. There are, of course, individual problems, and some of them have remained year after year, but things are in order in the big way. With this statement, I could finish my speech and enjoy the good level of state accounts, but it would be a lighter way of resisting. We need to look at what we really have to do, what we can not do and what we can do differently in the name of the sustainability of the Estonian state, in search of bold and original, yet sensible and working solutions. Reality forces us to focus only on the most important. Also at the National Audit Office. I'll start with that. At present, pursuant to the State Budget Act, the National Audit Office carries out annual financial audits of 16 identical sizes in ministries, the State Chancellery and constitutional institutions. In addition, we are conducting an audit of the country's consolidated annual report, in which we are trying to generalise the problems we have identified in the ministries. The experience of the past ten years has shown the National Audit Office that the approval of the accounts of ministries in a government session is merely a formality. I dare say that ministers do not use or need these reports in decision-making. There are no other important information about the annual accounts of national ministries other than the National Audit Office. As these reports do not have consumers, there are also few consumers in the assessments made in the financial audit reports of the National Audit Office regarding the accuracy of the accounts of ministries. In other words, the current law makes us produce goods year after year that have little buyers. Consequently, the National Audit Office proposes to abolish the annual accounts of individual ministries and constitutional institutions, but to retain the summary report of the state. This would save people working time and resources, which will be spent putting together reports in ministries and controlling the National Audit Office. This would allow the resources of the National Audit Office to be directed towards dealing with financial issues that require more attention. Of course, the financial information needed for management decisions in ministries must continue to be preserved and the information about the implementation of the state budget must be made public by the ministries. The monthly financial information provided by ministries to the Ministry of Finance, which is an input for the preparation of the country's summary report and public finance statistics, is also important for the state. High-quality public finance statistics in turn allow us to analyse and evaluate monetary policy decisions, compare our country with other countries and highlight changes in the state's financial position over time. Internally, monetary statistics are directly linked to the production of economic forecasts and thus to the state budget process. Externally, monetary statistics have an impact on Estonian ratings and thus on government borrowing rates. The focus of the financial audits of the National Audit Office on the accuracy of the financial information used in public finance statistics is also supported by developments in the European Union. The European Parliament, the European Commission and Eurostat have shown a growing initiative to ensure correct and timely monetary statistics for the Member States. The National Audit Office has already begun to change the organisation of the financial audit, but the implementation of the change also means reviewing the laws and thus cooperating with the Ministry of Finance and discussions in the Riigikogu committees. I hope you and the Treasury have a wish to come along with the updates. Once again, on the subject of this report with the blue cover. Today is 6 November 2013, the 2014 budget has passed first reading. However, today you have a report on 2012. The question therefore arises: is it possible for the Riigikogu to do something useful with this information now? I don't think so. For example, in Sweden, the country's financial report, together with the report by the supreme audit institution, is presented to Parliament as early as April. Moreover, the report on the implementation of the budget presented in the summary report is presented in such a way that specific expertise is needed to understand it. As far as I am aware, the National Audit Office has been drawing attention to this for years, but development has sometimes been quite the opposite, the financial report has become even more technical and incomprehensible to ordinary citizens. The presentation of the budget implementation report has changed from year to year and does not allow the reader to monitor the utilisation dynamics of the state budget. There is also a chapter devoted to these problems in our Red Cover Report. Important changes should be made here. The summary report for the financial year requires more and clearer information on the activities carried out for the budget money. It must be said what the money was spent on and what it was achieved for. We must also say what was not achieved and why. This information should be submitted to the Riigikogu in spring, not late autumn. It is hard to believe that our advanced e-state cannot do this. Good listeners! Now I'm talking about that red cover review on your desk. In the spring, when I was here as a Auditor General, I emphasised before you that the National Audit Office should look at the past as far as is necessary for future-oriented decisions. This year's annual report of the National Audit Office has been prepared with this idea in mind. It speaks of a much more expensive state asset than a properly acquired and preserved communication technology or machine park. It speaks of the welfare of the Estonian state and people in the light of the present and future trends in the economy and public finances.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U325	Excuse me, Mr. Auditor General. I have a comment. Please, Mr Sven Sester, go to your seat! You're interfering with the Riigikogu sitting next door.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U326	It speaks of a much more expensive state asset than a duly acquired and preserved communication technology or machine park. It speaks of the welfare of the Estonian state and people in the light of the present and future trends in the economy and public finances. Let us look at the draft state budget for the following year, even if it is pending. The government has described the budget plan in many good words and I have no reason to doubt the correctness of these statements. There will probably be an increase in the promised pension and income support, increased salaries of teachers and police officers and increased revenue from the state budget. I am certainly pleased about this as both the head of the office of Auditor General and as a citizen. Compared to our fellow fates, we have done very well, perhaps the best of them. But what are the figures, charts and metrics of life in Estonia that the government does not specifically emphasise? If the heads of state say that the Estonian economy and finances have been well-developed from the major economic crisis, has this success also reached the people of Estonia? If the goal has been that people's wealth grows and approaches that of the average European, has this been the case? How good are our people's opportunities for self - fulfillment? What, then, is ahead of us in the next decade? The National Audit Office has tried to analyse these issues in this year's annual report. Undoubtedly, our assessments of the final truth do not claim, but we offer the Riigikogu side by side the strengths of our country's economy and administration and the challenges ahead to help you make considered decisions. It is you, because you, as elected by the state, have the right to decide. As you well know, the financial crisis that started more than five years ago in many countries is far from the past. Even today, Europe and the world are looking for solutions to cope with the high debt burden, while giving the economy a sustainable boost and avoiding deterioration in people's well-being. The so-called high figures on public finances in Estonia probably make a number of state finance ministers jealous. Looking at Europe, we are well out of the crisis, production is above boom time and export performance is record. It is therefore appropriate to ask whether the life situation of an Estonian person has improved significantly compared to that of another European country. Our overview gives you plenty of information on this subject, there are many comparisons and charts. Analysing the livelihood of the Estonian people shows that, despite the success attributed to public finances and the economy and international recognition, this success has in many ways not reached many Estonian people. International statistics show that our people's purchasing power is more or less at the same level as it was six years ago, while prices have increased significantly faster than the European average in recent years. In summary: when Estonian prices have caught up quickly to the European average, the Estonian's purchasing power is not. We have similar concerns at national level. Harjumaa is the only county where people receive higher than the average wage in Estonia. Harjumaa is the only county where GDP per capita exceeds the Estonian average. Harjumaa is a county where 62% of all active Estonian companies are active. Harjumaa is a county where two thirds of Estonian exports are created. Regional disparities in income also mean major differences in people's livelihoods. The number of people living in poverty varies greatly from region to region. While around 10% of the population lived in relative poverty in Harju County as of 2011, there were 30% of such people in North-East Estonia. In four Estonian counties, a quarter or more people live in relative poverty. Dear Riigikogu! In society, there is an increasing expectation that the patience and austerity shown at the worst of the economic crisis will be converted into a tangible improvement in living conditions, not in a vague future, but in the coming years. However, it has to be said that it is difficult to anticipate a dramatic improvement in the country's situation in the long term. Rather, the departure of the working people and the decline and ageing of the population place new challenges and risks on the development path of Estonia, both at local and state level. Let's take a closer look. The economic momentum in Estonia has started to slow down this year, and the economy grew by just over 1% in the last half of the year. Even if Estonia's economic growth is increasing in the coming years and the revenue of the state increases by a few per cent per year, as planned, there are several risks in Estonia's public finances that may hamper our sustainable development. Most of the state's revenue is pre-booked. The vast majority of state budget expenditures are those that are legally determined or otherwise fixed. These are the costs which the State must finance in order to fulfil its obligations and which generally do not support the competitiveness of the State. The share of these fixed costs in the state budget has steadily increased, these expenditures have increased faster than the state's revenue and will continue to increase in the future, according to the Ministry of Finance. This year, 74% of the state budget will be charged with fixed expenditure, compared to 77% in 2017. Social costs, i.e. money for pensions, health insurance, family benefits, etc. account for the largest part of fixed costs. These expenditures already account for almost half of the state budget. This does not mean that we spend more than other European countries. On the contrary, in Estonia, social benefits are twice as low as the European Union average. The share of social protection expenditure in GDP is smaller than in Estonia in the European Union than in Romania, Bulgaria and Latvia. However, even compared to other European countries, small social costs are a great burden for the Estonian state budget. Pensions have increased by some ten euros in five years, but social tax receipts are not enough to pay them. Every year, other national revenues are increasingly needed for social expenditure. While this year, the state had to raise around EUR 370 million in other revenues to pay pensions alone, in 2017 it would have to find some 500 million already. According to studies, the Estonian pension insurance system is not sustainable in its current form. A number of countries have introduced automatic adjustment mechanisms to mitigate the effects of ageing and the economic crisis. Behind this long term is the possibility of adapting the pension system to the characteristics of population processes and not to political factors. The suitability of such a mechanism for Estonia is assessed in the current audit and we intend to come to the Riigikogu soon with recommendations. Neither do analysts consider the Estonian health care system to be sustainable. Health expenditure has also increased year after year, being one of the biggest sources of expenditure in the state budget, but access to health care has nevertheless deteriorated. The growing deficit in the country's social costs means that other areas of the country's activities must go through with a thinner wallet or rely on European Union aid. The forecast by the Ministry of Finance shows that in 2016, almost all sectors of the country's activities, with the exception of the social sector, would receive less money than in this year, 2013. A prominent example is what is happening with public investment. Investments in government areas from the state budget, together with euro money, will fall nearly twice as much by 2015 as compared to this year: broadly from 670 million to 300 million euros. This reduction is due to the fact that, since the possibility of using European Union grants, Estonia has made its investments largely out of euro money. Between 2008 and 2013, investment from the state budget amounted to EUR 4.2 billion, 70% of which came from the European Union. It is noteworthy that in 2012 the Estonian state directed four times less money from its revenues for investments than during the deep crisis in 2009. Depending largely on the euro money in the case of investments, Estonia has developed a situation where part of the country's development plans has focused not on the comprehensive development of the sector, but on problems that can be solved with the help of the European Union Structural Funds. But was all this really necessary? Would we have done all this if we had paid for it out of our money? Honourable listeners! It has long been known that Estonia is also one of the fastest declining and ageing populations in Europe. Since the restoration of independence, natural growth has only been positive in one year. From 2016, Estonia's employment will inevitably start to decline, as one fifth less people enter the labour market than they leave because of their age. There is an increasing burden on the working population to support people who are not in employment. Depopulation and ageing will lead to additional difficulties for the economy and public finances. Companies must earn income for themselves and the state with fewer hands. At the same time, the pressure for increased public expenditure, in particular social expenditure, is increasing. We are faced with the question of where to get the money to support the state in 10, 20 and 30 years' time. What country of public function and service can be maintained by our employees, whose number is decreasing? The question is also how to create more so-called new money for developing the country in the state budget. Like the central authority, local authorities are also facing problems. Due to the current system of funding of Estonian municipalities, municipalities are more vulnerable to population changes than the state, or central government level. This is illustrated by a comparison of the increase in revenue of the state and local governments. If the state's revenue has tripled in ten years, the local government's revenue has doubled. The growth rate differential is forecast by the Ministry of Finance to continue to increase. For example, when analysing the change in income according to the location of the municipalities, it appears that although the total municipal income in 2012 was 11% higher than in 2007, i.e. the boom time, only the income of the county centres and the surrounding municipalities has increased. The income of all other municipalities has declined in succession. It should also be noted that Estonia is too uneven from one region to another, so that we can rely only on average indicators. I have heard it said that local authorities are ten years behind the state, or central government, in their development. I dare say that municipalities are ten years ahead of the country's development trends. I mean that what is happening now in rural areas, from which people move to cities or abroad because of better self-realisation, can also be hit in the near future by Tallinn, Tartu and the country as a whole. On the one hand, I do not see anything tragic about the fact that many people have found work abroad and the opportunity to carry out themselves. On the contrary, going out and living gives new experiences and skills and helps to see the world more widely. On the other hand, have we done everything we can to ensure that those who went abroad would like to return here in years' time? Are our living environment, the functioning of the state and the attitudes of society such that these people, be they builders, doctors or scientists, can be expected and appreciated to do something here with new skills and knowledge they have learned abroad? The creation of such an environment now seems to be progressing steadily. Good listeners! We need to be aware today that the state will not be able to deliver all the services and public goods in the near future at present. However, since most services and public goods are currently provided by a person through a local government, it is important to consider the Palette of functions and costs and benefits of the state and of services in a comprehensive and coherent manner when making decisions. Unfortunately, for years, the state has not wanted to address the inherent problems of local governments and has failed to make decisions that no one else can do. Estonia of the so-called attraction centres under discussion is a step forward compared to the current situation, but I have the feeling that this plan would have worked perhaps another 15 to 20 years ago, but the situation has already changed to such an extent that a much more realistic or radical approach is needed. Look at the map in the review. We have no illusions about the economic or other capacity of Estonian municipalities, especially in the future. We need clarity first and foremost. What is the relationship between centralisation and decentralisation in Estonia based on real capacity? How tall and thick are we going to build between the state and the municipalities and how complicated are we going to make this whole system complicated? Does that make any sense? What size, task and capacity unit can actually and intrinsically play a self-governing role in such a small country where the population is sparse and extremely uneven? About 63% of all Estonians live in the 15 largest municipalities, while the remaining 37% have been held between 200 municipalities. In 39 municipalities, a million people live in all 1.3 million of our population. Real life requires a decision on what reforms need to be made in broader governance. Reforms in large areas of expenditure and services provided must be agreed together with the reform of local governments. Once the relationship between the state and local governments is established on the basis of real capacity, it will also be clear what the local governments' own tasks are and what national tasks they perform. It's vague now. It must be clear what the functions of the municipalities will be in the future and what the budget will be for their implementation. Obviously, the monetary issue is the main reason why the government is so reluctant to open up the issue of financing local governments and also the tasks to be performed. It is not the central government that is not interested in allowing the municipalities to invoice the State for the performance of their public tasks, which they are currently not compensated for. I have to deal with another important aspect of the use of local governments' funds, the adequacy of funding and the performance of their tasks. In fact, there is no one in Estonia whose task would be to provide the Riigikogu and the public with information about the prudent use of local government funds. The National Audit Office is prepared to provide this information if the Riigikogu so decides. I am of the opinion that this does not in any way violate the autonomy of the local government, especially because the National Audit Office has no right to dictate anything to anyone or to oblige anyone to do anything. We're just making an independent side view, a recommendation. The Riigikogu, the government, the public and also the local authorities make their own decisions; the National Audit Office does not intervene or can intervene. At the same time, the money used in Estonia is the money that we all share. I therefore ask the Riigikogu and local councils to consider whether the parliament and also the councils wish to receive feedback from the National Audit Office about the reasonableness of the use of local government funds. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Estonia, which restored independence, has been built for over a few decades. Decisions have often had to be made quickly, without much time being spent on assessing possible impacts and on broad-based discussions. Not always, especially in recent years, have there been external pressure behind these quick and properly unthinkable decisions, but also unwillingness or incompetence to deepen. These factors, in turn, have left a mark on the quality and preparation of decisions. There has not been a comprehensive and systematic plan to promote life in Estonia; rather, the individual issues that life has dictated have been resolved. This too, of course, has been necessary. However, the demographic and other problems facing Estonia force the country to plan its development in a holistic way and to critically assess its potential. To this end, the question of what responsibilities the Estonian state can bear in the long term must be answered honestly. It is no longer a question of whether we can continue to do the same. It is important that we do not delay possible choices and decisions until we are no longer able to influence self-flow processes. These problems in Estonia's development, which are already acute, but which will quickly deepen in the coming years, are known to all of you. I'm sure there was nothing new to those in power that I spoke to. If you look for it, in the last few years, the analysis prepared by the government already provides rather frank estimates of Estonia's current problems and future risks. Many titles that appear to be critical of the annual report of the National Audit Office are taken from materials prepared by the government itself. For example, read the partnership agreement drawn up by the Ministry of Finance, which the European Commission is asking us to use for the next period as a prerequisite for the use of European Union subsidies. But paper is just paper, and our sustainable development cannot be guaranteed in any way unless action follows. But actions will not come until the problems have been discussed honestly, openly and meaningfully. Why, then, do those in power, conscious of development concerns, rather avoid these issues when they come to the public? Are they feared to be accused of poor leadership or total failure? Or is there a fear of falling into the anger of a low-enhancing electorate? In an interview given yesterday morning to Radio Kuku, the Minister of Finance stated openly that it is "hard to make decisions that do not allow us to be re-elected. " That is the main choice: either to favour popularity or to make decisions that are necessary for the future of the country and its people. I believe that every thought and act of the government should not be treated as if it were a crime against the Estonian people. At the same time, I am convinced that the government's activities would be better understood if the government listened and took into account the opinions and ideas that come from outside the government circles, also from the National Audit Office. We know that a condescending attitude can create a crisis of confidence, but arrogance certainly creates indifference. Indifference, however, is the worst thing that can happen to one country and people. I have expressed this concern in the past. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu! It is not appropriate to treat a country and its functioning as a project financed from some kind of fund, with no certainty as to whether the money will continue to be received and the activities will continue. As a scientist or a former scientist, if you wish, I can assure you that project-based life and action are not sustainable. The state and its strategic functions should be on a stable and solid basis, as this is the only way to build trust between society and the state. In order to ensure sustainability and trust, it would be reasonable to conclude broad-based agreements in certain areas, such as education and health care, which would go beyond the compositions of governments and the Riigikogu. I would add that the practicality of discussions on the future of Estonia and the courage of decision-makers would be very supportive if the media environment were to foster a constructive, pragmatic, rational and unprejudiced atmosphere. In addition to stability, however, we need to be prepared for radical innovations. Being a professional development biologist, I can assure you that the country is like a developing organism. There are constant choices: cells that are no longer needed, dying, new cells are born, or predatory, until they have fulfilled their mission as well. In the light of the analogy, we should not be afraid to give up something that was necessary at a certain stage of the country's development, but instead of which something new is now needed. Just as in science it is not important to solve one or another scientific problem, which political views are a solution, so it should be important to solve Estonia's problems only how good and working the solution is, not the one who proposed the idea. The problems facing Estonia are one and the same regardless of the nationality, race, religious beliefs and political affiliation of the people living here. These problems need to be resolved regardless of the composition of future governments and Riigikogus. In conclusion, it is no longer possible for the Estonian state to postpone making choices and making decisions. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U327	Thank you very much for your presentation, Auditor General. We'll get to the questions. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U328	Thank you. Thank you, Mr Auditor General, for a very thorough and socially sensitive annual review. I'm sure I share your views. At the same time, I see that this cannot be said about our government or the Prime Minister. The Minister of Finance has mentioned that evaluating is not even a matter for the Auditor General. The Prime Minister has criticised your actions in this Chamber yesterday and today quite a bit, saying that you have trampled and used old data into the mud of the Estonian state. He has said that the Auditor General is new, but it is as if it were the same. How do you comment on these views? Does our government not see or do we not want to see that our people have not been a part of the country's success and that economic success has not reached the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U329	Thank you, good questioner! As I mentioned in my report today, many of the problems that have been addressed in this review, which is on your desks, have also been addressed in government material. I've mentioned one piece of material to you. There is also a strong perception among members of the government that some decisions need to be made faster and more radically. Why these materials didn't get to the public, that's what I touched. So I don't think the government knows these problems. I'm sure the government is aware of these problems. As regards the position of the Prime Minister and the age of the data, the overview of the National Audit Office in the Riigikogu has always been limited to the previous year. This review, which is in front of you today, also includes 2013 data. This means that all the figures and figures it says were fresh at the time the material was printed. All these figures were given to the Ministry of Finance for review just before the material was printed, as well as to other ministries for the purpose of checking these data. As far as Eurostat is concerned, when you open the Eurostat page, you will see exactly the figures in my review. True, if you penetrate a little deeper, you can put together fresh data. These are indeed the figures that the Prime Minister mentioned yesterday. But the official website has exactly the figures we were talking about. But what I want to say is that it is not a question of numbers or whether it is 0.3% or 0.6% here or there, but we are talking about more important issues. There is a need to speed up the reforms that have been launched, and a number of reforms need to be started more quickly. That is also the point of our review. We are not questioning the future of the Estonian state, but we are giving a clear picture of where we are and what needs to be done. It is up to the government, and certainly Parliament, to find solutions so that the situation changes and develops. There's one more thing I want to do. The Prime Minister said yesterday in the Riigikogu: "There is also one such suggestion in this material of the thickness of the National Audit Office: in order to ensure sustainability, pensions should be reduced to 200 euros or social tax increased by 10%. Well, thank you. Neither of these proposals suits me, and I'm sure neither do you. " Now let me comment. The Prime Minister has regrettably attributed proposals to the National Audit Office that the National Audit Office has never made. In fact, the National Audit Office said that neither of the options, nor the reduction of pensions to 200 euros, nor the 10% increase in social tax pension insurance are acceptable to society. I quote from the National Audit Office's review, which illustrates the size of the pension fund's deficit: "For example, if the public pension insurance balance in 2013 were to be balanced, the average old-age pension should be reduced from 312 euros to ca 200 euros. If tax increases are applied, the share of social tax pension insurance (currently 20%) should increase by around 10%. Obviously neither option is acceptable to society. A reduction in pensions would significantly make it difficult for pensioners to cope. To this extent, however, tax increases would significantly increase the tax burden on labour, which is already at an EU average level. " This was demonstrated by the analysis of the Prax Centre for Policy Studies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U330	Thank you very much. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U331	Thank you, Madam President. I, too, thank the good Auditor General for a very good presentation. My question concerns the quality of the consolidated annual report as a document. One part of the summary report for the financial year is also the country's activity report. We can read from this that only half of the 85 targets set for 2012 can be estimated on the basis of published data, i.e. 47 targets. For example, we can also read that four of the seven priorities of the Government of the Republic cannot yet be assessed. If we add here the fact that the report on the implementation of the state budget is not comparable to the state budget and does not fulfil its main objective, i.e. does not inform the reader, should we say that the report is actually a failure? All right, well, we can make the accounting section more precise, but if the activity report really can't make an assessment, should we cancel it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U332	Good questioner! The National Audit Office has pointed out that these reports are not comparable and are difficult to understand. This is proven by the fact that when the report was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the former Minister of Finance, Aivar Sõerd, too, had difficulties bringing together certain figures. The National Audit Office has proposed that these reports be comparable and clear. Within the framework of the previous item, it was discussed that it is often not understandable what is in the report, as well as this quota and the missing EUR 200 million issue. The problem is that if the Minister of Finance claims that the law does not tell him to do so, the National Audit Office has pointed out that the report should nevertheless state what was done with the money. The National Audit Office and I do not think that you are of the opinion that the amount of EUR 200 million has disappeared. The question is that everything should be clear, transparent and understandable. That is the substance of our proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U333	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U334	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I agree with several of the questions raised in the audit work of the National Audit Office. I have also examined the issue of the sustainability of the pension system myself. But the Prime Minister said the Auditor General is new, but the story is old. I cannot fully agree with this statement either. Your predecessor was quite robust and clear on the subject of administrative reform. Now the overview of the local governments chapter is quite thoroughly described in various versions. But is the National Audit Office still convinced that administrative reform and administrative issues are important and that these problems should be resolved in the next few years? Are your personal views similar to those of your predecessor?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U335	I don't know how to compare with my predecessor. It is clear that this reform is necessary, but it does not need to be carried out on its own. Now I will present my position. We have a big problem with every minister in the sector having his own map. The Minister of Regional Affairs has a map of the attraction centres, the Minister of Education has a map of the school network, and the Minister of Social Affairs has a map of the organisation of the health network. Last night, a new card came in to clean up the ambulance. These cards are all different. I think the problem with our country is that these cards are not put together. My message as Auditor General is that these cards should be put together and ministers need to be made to speak with each other. This reform should be carried out together. I am not evaluating the reform of the school network, but we can see that this reform is ahead of other reforms. Inevitably, the emergence of state secondary schools clearly affects the attraction centres, where hospitals come, etc. I would reiterate the importance of consistency and the pace of reform of the various reforms.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U336	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U337	Thank you. Dear waitress, I also thank you for your thorough presentation. But I have a request that you explain your point that the country has done better than the human being. It shows how well the country is doing, what budget the country can do and how the country can support the economy and people's livelihood through the budget. All revenue that the state can collect goes to the budget and is distributed through the budget. We don't collect reserves like we did six or seven years ago. We're not collecting them now, although I'm saying we could collect them. After all, budget expenditure does not go out of the country; development aid amounts are small. How can you still understand the fact that the country has been better off than a human being? That's not possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U338	Yes, we can descend into a very deep philosophy that the state, that's all of us. The figures we are presenting to Europe are really very good, and we are all very happy about them. But the figures that I brought today show rather that very many people live in poverty or have other problems. It doesn't mean the money's gone anywhere. The country is doing well, but there are people out there who aren't doing well. I do not want to be, as the Minister of Finance said, at the Institute of Psychology at work, but it is clear that people do not feel that their lives have improved considerably. And some of the data doesn't show it either. So it's hard to argue with that argument. I do not want to say that this is a matter of feeling, and I also do not want to say that people are leaving Estonia because someone has a feeling, as the Minister of Finance said.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U339	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U340	Thank you, Mr President. Dear spokesperson, I also thank you for your very interesting and thorough presentation. I will look at the National Audit Office's conclusions on the summary report. The first point says that the report is correct and fair, reflects the situation fairly. The second point introduces the term 'forest of the country'. You are talking about the state forest and you say that the state forest is recorded on an on-balance sheet basis in the amount of it being cut down in a given year. You propose that this should be reflected to the full and that possible future changes in the state forest itself should also be presented. I want to know what you mean by that. I agree with you in the sense that then we will find out what the value of state property in the state forest really is in Estonia. But the forest grows over time, and some of it is cut. Do you mean that we should make a revaluation every year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U341	It's probably too specific, I don't know how to answer that. But it has been under constant review at the National Audit Office, year after year. In some ways, the National Audit Office has questioned how the forest is recorded in the balance sheet, and this could also be reflected in other ways. However, an answer to this question, and certainly to another specific question, can be obtained, for example, by making a written or oral inquiry and we are ready to give a very clear answer to that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U342	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U343	Thank you. Mr President, I do not want to be original, but thank you for your very sincere and interesting presentation. But we all have our priorities. For example, I think that the biggest problem in Estonia today is the gradual loss of local governments' autonomy, their increasing dependence on the central government. There are other opinions. Some believe that the biggest problem is the lack of a tax system. The third says that the demographic situation is critical. This debate also provides an opportunity to ask philosophical questions and your opinion is very interesting. If you had the chance to solve a problem with a fingertip like this, what kind of problem would you choose?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U344	Do you mean the municipalities or the country as a whole? I think that one of the most important problems, which I am sure you know very well, is that we still have people. I'm not talking about luck, I'm talking about having enough people who are entrepreneurial and educated, if you want to, then talent. If I could solve this problem, I think I would. We do not have much hope for another resource in Estonia. Yeah, we have oil shale, and that's what we're talking about in the report. But with the oil shale, it's really going to run out at some point, and there's no way to carry it. Rather, we should still think about how the country can be sustainable, based on the fact that we have enough people here. After all, the rulers of the country have also taken certain steps and relaxed the laws so that more people can be brought here. But we have not dealt very proactively with the fact that we have a sufficient number of people capable of doing a certain job. I agree that technology can replace people at all times, but it certainly does not replace all people. Usually technology replaces people with low education or less capable, but all new devices and instruments require certain knowledge when dealing with what we must have or must be brought in. That was a long answer to the short question. I also have a simple answer: I just need people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U345	Thank you. Please, Margus Hanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U346	Thank you, Madam President. Good Auditor General, thank you too for a good, long and thorough presentation. I want to talk about an increase in people's well-being. As our country's mineral resources are limited, the source of human well-being is, of course, the increase in wages resulting from productivity growth. It is also written in the review that the only sustainable way to raise Estonian people's wages is to increase the international competitiveness of companies and the productivity of employees. Does the National Audit Office have any good recipes to offer entrepreneurs to increase competitiveness and productivity?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U347	Thank you, good questioner! There is certainly no prescription, but let's see what's going to happen in the coming years. Take, for example, development plans for R &amp; D or entrepreneurship. I already told you, we have choices to make. It's about smart specialisation. We need to specialise very clearly in those activities that increase productivity. It is clear that the Estonian state must also have companies that are able to employ the masses. There is nothing new about what the honourable member of the Riigikogu said. Productivity has been discussed for a long time. For a very long time, economic people have been talking about productivity as a problem, but no one has offered good solutions. Certainly now businesses, even larger companies, are investing, they are improving their work process, but it is not about the product that will ultimately bring added value. I don't have a gold key to solve this overnight. This question goes back to the fact that we must have enterprising people who can do all this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U348	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U349	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Auditor General, thank you for your very honest and comprehensive presentation. But I'm really confused. I no longer know which Estonia I live in, either in the Estonia that the government is talking about or in what the Auditor General is talking about. The fact is that the country's population is ageing and shrinking. In this situation, is it not high time to carry out a state reform, for example, to review the activities of rural and rural governments, perhaps to merge ministries and also to reform local governments? Shouldn't we get on with this pretty quick?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U350	Good questioner! After all, there has been talk about the need for state reform in this Chamber as well. I will simply bring one parallel from our neighbouring country, where there are similar demographic problems. Looking ahead, it became clear that they would soon not have enough people, including officials. This was in many ways an incentive for the review of government governance in the key to dealing with fewer officials. I believe that these discussions may also be necessary for us. We have to be honest. It's not a pessimistic view. You didn't understand which country you were living in. I think if you put these two views together, you'll get a pretty realistic picture. The government has one task and the National Audit Office has another task. The task of the National Audit Office is to highlight shortcomings. Deficiencies cannot be shown with a very smiling face and cheerfully. I, like the Prime Minister, would like to see different figures. I'd be very happy if those figures were different. But these charts and drawings are from Statistics and the Ministry of Finance, and they're exactly what they are. It doesn't mean chaos. The state of finance that we have, or the way Europe sees us, is a very good basis for doing either state reform or other things and speeding up the processes that the country is actually planning to do. I think there are the necessary things to do. That's the point of this report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U351	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U352	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear Auditor General, I, too, thank you for your report. My question concerns relations between government and local authorities. Our constitution says that if local authorities are to be assigned a national task, the state must also ensure budgetary resources so that local authorities can fulfil them. The decision of the Supreme Court of 2010 says that until now it is not clear exactly what the functions of the state and what the functions of local governments are. In your report, you also discussed the fact that until now there is no clear division of responsibilities between the state and local authorities. In fact, funding is therefore somewhat confusing, it is not clear what is the task of the local government and whether it must be financed from the local budget and what is the task of the state and whether it must be financed from the state budget. In the light of the Constitution or the decision of the Supreme Court in 2010, can it be said that at least the 2012 state budget was somewhat contrary to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U353	Thank you for your question. I'm not a lawyer to answer that. However, the National Audit Office has also drawn attention to this when dealing with draft laws in the Government of the Republic, if we have seen that one or the other draft law contradicts the Supreme Court's decision since 2010. As I said in my speech here today, this is one of the key issues for which an answer is needed: what are the national responsibilities and what are the responsibilities of local authorities. Again, without evaluating the reform of education, I would point out that we have state secondary schools and that the state wants to finance the work of teachers on an ad hoc basis. This is a clear indication that the state considers this to be a national task. However, in addition to that, there are other staff in schools, such as workers, assistant teachers, but there is no mention of who finances the work of these people, which is not clearly stated in the law. Yes, all that remains is the task of the local government, but where will the resources come from to carry out this task? For the sake of clarity, all laws need to be reviewed in this option. The Supreme Court's decision must be observed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U354	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U355	Thank you very much. Mr. Auditor General, thank you for your report. I certainly agree with your view that data collection and recapitulative statements and other important reports should take place more quickly so that we can assess trends and dynamics on the basis of more recent data than at present. This affects, among other things, mood and forecasting. But I'm gonna stop by one observation. You have pointed out that the proportion of the state's expenditure, which is prescribed by law, is too high. You also mentioned forecasts that this proportion is increasing, which naturally reduces the flexibility of the country to respond to changing circumstances. But a little later, you said that certain fundamental issues should be decided and agreements should be concluded that would exceed the limits of the working periods of the Riigikogu and the government. Doesn't that make the situation worse, on the contrary? I mean, that still confirms...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U356	Question time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U357	Good questioner! I don't really see a contradiction here. My argument is that we need to reform the state (or whatever we call it), which will enable us to do things far more effectively. An area such as education, I think, is not a place of expenditure in a philosophical sense. It's more of a place to bet on. Yes, we really have a problem with this increase in social expenditure. But rather, we need to find a way to cover these rising costs, not so much to worry about the need to contribute more money to education.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U358	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U359	Thank you. Dear Auditor General, I am pleased that a large part of your review focuses on the administration of public property, because there is a large amount of money in public companies, the use of which we may not always be able to monitor as closely as the direct use of public funds. As you have carried out a lot of audits over the years in public foundations, companies and non-profit organisations, you certainly have a lot of knowledge about exactly what is wrong and how the situation should be improved. In the review, I read that there is a great deal of disagreement at government level with you. That is why I have a question. Under the Act of the National Audit Office, you have the right to participate in legislative work and to make proposals to the Riigikogu which laws could be amended. Do you think it is a sensible instrument that you could use more actively as a new Auditor General?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U360	Thank you, good questioner! As far as I know, the National Audit Office has not used much of the opportunity to initiate legislative amendments. But what have we done? Once we have seen that one law or another needs to be amended, we have always referred to it. As far as public undertakings are concerned, there has been a recent audit and all these problems are clearly stated there. The text of the audit is also shared with you, members of the Riigikogu. It makes it very clear what are the problems currently faced by public undertakings. One problem is certainly that the state has not made it clear why it is taking part in one or the other undertaking, in some companies it is really taking part in a very small percentage. Secondly, there is not always enough sense of ownership, and the board members sometimes lack sufficient preparation to contribute to the plans and decisions of the board. There are also companies, such as Eesti Energia, who do not have a strategy. There are therefore a number of problems that can be solved without any changes to the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U361	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U362	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Auditor General! I had no intention of asking, but listening to your excellent presentation and reading all the very right views that the National Audit Office has raised, I may have even had a rhetorical question. The National Audit Office points out every year the shortcomings and weaknesses in our activities and those of the government, but the member of the government says against saying that this is not the case, he does not accept it. But where do you think these proposals could go and what should they become, how should they be implemented? Or will you come back next year and make great suggestions, but things have not moved on? What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U363	Thank you, good questioner! Well, I guess that review today is exactly why it's what it is. When I looked at all the audits carried out earlier and the presentations made in the Riigikogu, I promised myself that I would take it all together and bring out the main problems that have accumulated over the years so that there would be a platform from which to proceed. Where should these proposals go? To be honest, 50 to 60% of the proposals made by the National Audit Office have been implemented. When I was elected Auditor General, I made a promise that I would also audit the National Audit Office in this key that I would appreciate the proposals that have been made and the proposals that have not been implemented. I wanted to find out what the pattern was. I have started this process; I have also redesigned the National Audit Office in order to increase the analysis part. When this audit is ready, I think it is not only interesting for me, but interesting for you too, because it turns out why one or the other proposal has reached somewhere and why one or the other proposal has not reached anywhere. But in conclusion, the proposals have all arrived here. This means that they are all here in the Riigikogu and are waiting for their follow-up.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U364	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U365	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Auditor General! As usual, this time the report of the National Audit Office has been widely reflected. In fact, it was possible to read an introduction on the tabloid of a daily newspaper. I congratulate you for that, because this is why the inspection reports are made so that what it says can reach people. But I was impressed by a suggestion that I would like to have a more precise explanation for. Unfortunately, this proposal has not received much response so far. In particular, you proposed to start a debate on what issues, or even areas, could be delegated to the European Union for decision-making with budgetary resources. Could you dispel your ideas or your proposal more?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U366	Thank you, good questioner! In my speech, I also mentioned the situation ten, twenty, thirty years later. It is figuratively possible to say that we are moving on the axis of self-government to the state of Europe. There are also proposals that at one point we can reach an institution such as the European Federation. Whether it ever happens or not is a question of its own. But I think the sooner we start thinking about it, the better. It is my wish that this should not come as a surprise to us that we should have thought out which functions we could and would like to give to the European institutions. Many things are already decided in Europe, and many money issues are decided in Europe, but the palette I was talking about is much wider. So rather, this axis is not only a "state and Europe," but also a "state and government." It should be seen as a common axis. On this subject, I think, we need to start discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U367	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U368	Thank you. Dear Auditor General! I, too, will allow myself a more philosophical question. Namely, I was astonished by the question of Mr Sõerd, the subtext of which was, as if it were not possible formally, that the economic success of the country would not reach all people and that the country as a whole would be more successful than the people. I remembered an influential country of oil, which, according to both statistics and public opinion, is very wealthy, while at the same time it spends about 40% of its budget to support the royal family. Do you think it can be said about such a country that the country as a whole is more successful than its people and that the economic success of that country does not reach all people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U369	If I can answer philosophically, I say that people actually live relatively well in this country, which is because ten people have very big money in their hands. I wouldn't draw that parallel. But I certainly agree that if the country figures are good, this does not necessarily mean that every person in this country has done well. That's the figures and the bill I gave you. We still have a certain number of people living in poverty, we cannot deny it. We also cannot deny that people's lives have actually improved. Nobody says life's gone pretty bad. But we need to think about how to achieve that all people live well in Estonia, so that a fifth of people do not live below the minimum subsistence and subsistence limits. That's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U370	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U371	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Auditor General! Yesterday's debate on European Union policy had quite a number of members of the Riigikogu who quoted the annual report of the National Audit Office, but the Prime Minister was reluctant and thought that in the context of European Union policy it was not appropriate to base the report on the National Audit Office. The basic path of the Socialists is that the European Union, without a social dimension, is not the European Union that Robert Schuman and Jean Monnet have ever laid the foundations for. What is your position as to whether the EMU can be spoken of at all without regard to man and his well-being or whether money can be spoken of without telling who the holy animal earns money?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U372	I will answer you briefly: I cannot.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U373	Please, Tiina Lock-Tramberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U374	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much to the Auditor General for his very interesting and concise presentation. I liked this movement very much individually to the general and generally lonely, and the analysis of the whole of Estonia in the statistical context of the neighbouring countries. Lithuania's very rapid development cannot be overlooked. I'm sure you've already looked at what's behind the numbers because of your position. Has Lithuania done something that we have not done in recent years compared to Estonia? What is the reason for Lithuania's explosive economic development? They are haunted by the same problems as the very great emigration, poverty and so on, but their development has exploded in many areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U375	Thank you. I have not entered Lithuania's soul very deeply. But these figures are definitely true. I believe that you can get a very clear answer from the Minister for Finance in the language of the figures. According to my knowledge, the state has also intervened very much in the so-called human life, in the sense that a great many support mechanisms have been created. Whether it's right or wrong, I don't know what to think about right now because I haven't, like I said, infiltrated the details. But we must definitely monitor those countries that have been far behind us at some point and analyse why they have started to move faster than we have.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U376	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U377	Good waitress! One of the ways that our party supports and believes in is that the state is a bad host. The situation of Estonian Air was that the auditor raised his hands and said that he would not audit. It's beautifully written. As regards Eesti Energia, you said yourself that they lack a strategy. I will add about Eesti Energia that there is also no electricity, with a long time. Now my question: is anyone responsible for this part of the state's money, or is it still necessary to get rid of the country in order to be responsible, because the country is not doing business? What's it supposed to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U378	Thank you. After all, state-owned enterprises also have a clear function in the economy of the country. If we are talking about Eesti Energia, the question is whether any part of it could go into private hands, so that the state no longer intervenes, but this is already the subject of the discussion of economic specialists. I was out of power, too. I think we've all felt these problems. Less in Tallinn this time, because the last storm passed to South Estonia. I'm sure there are problems. I think what role could be privatized is the question of economic people. The whole picture of what is still state-owned companies and what function they perform should also be looked at. It hasn't been done in a while. Consideration should also be given to why foundations are a part, for example, of public limited liability companies. That's how it's developed historically. I think now is the time to review what we as a country need and what we do not need.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U379	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U380	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General, No one assumes that the National Audit Office must always give a positive assessment. Criticism is completely understandable and self-evident, good criticism leads to life. But I remember one of your sentences. You said in answer to the question: "We have no doubt about the future of the Estonian state. "Who's "we"? I hope you're one of them. What, though, gives you the basis to say it in such a positive and hopeful way?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U381	Thank you. I can also rephrase it and say that I have no doubt about it. If there are any doubters, I certainly can't speak on their behalf. It's actually a philosophical question. If we live in this country and this is our country, then we cannot doubt the survival of this country. I think that even if the country is doing very badly, we must make an effort. The Estonian state has actually shown this attitude. In bad times, we have been able to make decisions that we have not made in good times, and in good times, when we had much more resources, many choices were not made. These resources piled up, which was good, because they could then be used, but at that point perhaps they could have made clearer choices. No, I have no doubt in Estonia. As long as at least one person lives here in Estonia, the state may also last.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U382	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U383	Thank you, Madam President. Good Auditor General! Your overview of Table 7 shows government expenditure by government sector. The table shows the data for 2013 and the forecast by the Ministry of Finance for 2016. Some of the figures here are what, as they say, raise the hairs of the body. For example, the change in public order and security in 2016 vs. 2013 is EUR 24 million, in the economy, EUR 23 million and in education, EUR 62 million. As Auditor General, do you know how to go into this forecast in depth? What is this reduction, a reduction in labour resources or investment in these areas? Change is still colossal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U384	Thank you. I guess that means all that. The minus sign means there's less resources. That's the problem that came out here. That is what it means to start making choices that we can and cannot make. What table are you talking about exactly? If I knew, I could give you the exact answer. What's the number on this table?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U385	What page could it be on? On page 25: Yeah, that's right. These are government expenditures put together here by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U386	Number 7.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U387	Thank you. Please, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U388	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Auditor General, I'm gonna check the government websites for how many officials work in our country. For example, there are 400 people working in Statistics Estonia, 7 in the Office of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment, 150 in lawmaking and 400 in addition. If I look at how many export agents there are in Estonia, according to the latest report, there were 18 of them with the external representatives of EAS. Could Estonia's small economic growth be due to the fact that we are a good accounting country, but the sales organisation does not have a state? Perhaps the state should focus more on export and promotion rather than accounting?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U389	Thank you. Definitely should. But it assumes that these people are out there somewhere. If we have a lot of accountants or lawyers right now, they're not going to be re-educated. We have a structural shortage of labour. It is not possible to achieve overnight that we have these people. But I am certainly of the opinion that it is always possible to learn more and that is what should be done. The profession that a person once acquired is not enough for the rest of his life. I think two or three times in my life, there must be something more to learn and probably another profession. But it is the same issue of state reform as how many officials we need and how many officials our country can pay off.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U390	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U391	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General, When we read this report, we understand very well that the Estonian state can enjoy certain indicators and with them the Estonian state sets an example for many other countries of the European Union: fiscal balance, low public debt, availability of reserves, etc. But there are very many poor people in our country who, unfortunately, cannot smear this balanced state budget on bread. They need real money. In your speech, you said that the Estonian state should think about bringing new money to Estonia or finding new money. What did you mean by new money?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U392	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U393	New money means we have enough people who can generate this new money. I am not thinking clearly of Structural Funds money. If our industry changed a little bit, it would allow us to generate considerably more resources than we do now. That's the new money. I didn't mean the money machine.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U394	Thank you. Dear Auditor General, The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia is dealt with in seven paragraphs of the National Audit Office. One of them expects you to come to the Riigikogu remote and talk about the things we are talking about today. But today, people have a whole new way of getting information. Three-quarters of people in Estonia use the Internet. I think you could come here more often before us. Are you technically prepared to perform before the Riigikogu more than once a year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U395	Thank you. What can I say to you now? I do not want to call on you to ask questions, because then you will be able to see me in this Chamber perhaps every week, which obviously does not make much sense. But surely, if there are any questions that the Riigikogu wants to learn more about and I, as the Auditor General, can prepare to answer (it is obvious that it is very difficult for me to answer specific questions on the basis of today's general report), then I am ready to come here and express my views. But this should not become exhausting to the Riigikogu. This should not just be about meeting interesting people, because the Riigikogu needs to do its job.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U396	Thank you. Please, Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U397	Thank you. Good Auditor General! We will be working here in about an hour on the basic state budget law, which will lead to very fundamental changes and rather towards centralisation. The National Audit Office's report also mentions this draft in a few places. At the same time, we heard it being said here that the country is a bad host. What is the general position of the National Audit Office, whether centralisation in a country of Estonian type is good or there are some more flexible solutions, also considering the future reform of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U398	Thank you. The National Audit Office has also emphasised, in this report, that the Riigikogu is able to delegate a great many things to the government, but it should always be an informed step. The basic law of the state budget should also clearly reflect what is left to the government and what is left to the Riigikogu. After all, today we are debating that we have a state budget that is accepted in this Chamber and is called the original budget in the Ministry of Finance, and then there is some kind of money that moves from one place to another, but the Riigikogu has no say in it. These questions, along with the state budget law, are probably out of the question here. The National Audit Office has made one memo during the initial phase of the procedure of this bill. This bill will come to first reading. The National Audit Office is planning to state its position on this; you can certainly read it. It's about to happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U399	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U400	Thank you, good manager. I will return to the position of the National Audit Office. I have even witnessed as a member of the Riigikogu on several occasions when the Auditor General of the National Audit Office has been tried to make it clear in committee, for example, that he is a silly person who does not understand anything. There was a specific matter concerning the Port of Tallinn when it was very clear that the National Audit Office was right. But how can we change this attitude and what can we do as a parliament, so that the National Audit Office is not a beating boy, whom every member of the government can call a complete moron who knows nothing about life? I do not like this situation and I do not want to live in this Estonia. Can we help you?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U401	It's usually like helping yourself first. I believe that the National Audit Office itself can do that everything it claims must be true, behind which there should be clear and concrete facts that cannot be challenged. This, I think, is the strongest support that can ever be. Views and assessments may always be challenged. That's the same question as to whether the glass is half empty or half full. The problem is, we just have half glass. This should be addressed. I think that what we publish must be of maximum quality. I'm sure there's always emotions, no one wants to hear a negative assessment, neither do I. As a scientist, I did not like to be judged that my article was not published because these or other things had been done wrong or something had to be changed. Of course I didn't, but I changed what I had to do because the article needed to be published. Yeah, it starts with us. I hope that we will do our job in the best way we have done so far. Surely, if you have the feeling that things are right, with your statements, you can help us if anyone has made a negative assessment, but you think it's unwarranted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U402	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U403	Thank you. You said that everyone has the right to make an assessment, and everyone in a democratic country also has the right to express their assessment. There is nothing you can do in this respect and there is probably no reason to make a great assessment of these assessments either. How do you feel about the work done by the National Audit Office as an institution for years being helpful? Surely there has been help in the sense that there have been many points of attention, but have there been any changes in the things that have been pointed out? How do you assess the results of your work in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U404	Thank you. I have already partially answered that question. We make an audit where we look at the pattern of our assessments and how our proposals have been implemented. But if you look at media monitoring, you will see that the National Audit Office is mentioned very often and still in this key that something has changed because the National Audit Office has made its proposals. So I would separate these two things: the actual work of the National Audit Office and its influence and the image that inevitably arises from the fact that we are forced to draw attention to the problems. We continue to do so regardless of what one person or another thinks. I'm sure there's a benefit here. If you like, I'll never give you a long list of places where our opinion is taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U405	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U406	Thank you. Dear Auditor General! The Riigikogu Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft of the basic law of the state budget for the first time only at yesterday's meeting of the committee. In this session, I proposed that we meet representatives of the National Audit Office as part of the draft procedure and examine your proposals. In order for you to be aware of what the initiator of the draft thought of this, I say that the Ministry of Finance's official is not a minister, but one official stated that the National Audit Office has made his comments on this draft and in your second letter you did not refer to any of the comments in the first letter, so the National Audit Office is satisfied with this draft law. Are you satisfied with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U407	Of course, we are not satisfied with this. We know the procedure for dealing with this draft, which changed very quickly even when it was discussed in the government office and in the government. The change in the bill actually occurred in hours and days, but the National Audit Office cannot react so quickly with its best powers. We have therefore taken the decision that we will not comment on every amendment coming from the government, but rather comment when the draft is here in the Riigikogu, as I have already mentioned. Probably next week you'll have our suggestions on the table. Our people, who are competent in this area, will certainly be willing to participate in this process when the members of the Riigikogu invite us to the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U408	Dear waitress, there are no more questions for you. Thank you very much for an interesting presentation and a patient and meaningful reply! We're going to the negotiations. Do you want to negotiate? Please, as a representative of the Group of the Margus Hanson Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U409	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Auditor General, Ladies and gentlemen, When preparing the presentation, I read the Law of the National Audit Office. § 10 states that the Auditor General will present to the Riigikogu an overview of the use and preservation of state assets at the same time as discussing the summary report of the state's financial year in the Riigikogu. It can be concluded that the overview of the National Audit Office should, at the will of the legislator, be limited to describing and evaluating transactions in the previous financial year. Reading this year's report and recalling what has been discussed in the Chamber, it seems that the use and preservation of property has been assessed in the broadest sense, not only in terms of material values but also in terms of human assets and, more generally, in terms of all the fundamental values on which our country is based. Of course, it's heartwarming to read. A good citizen and a good official are never limited to the letter of the law. So there is a good and conscientious approach to the fate of the Estonian state, as is appropriate for the citizen. If there was any doubt, it could be seen from the cover that it was not a reflection paper from the political programme of any new party or the Council of the Development Fund. But I thought of another analogy. It relates to building a house. The building will be completed in such a way that the future landlord has wishes and ideas. He meets an architect who explains which ideas are feasible and how best to make plans come true. On the basis of their wishes, the project will be made, the builder will have it, and then the house will be completed. However, it is also the task of the contracting authority to find a supervisor who makes sure that the work is of high quality, that the money is not wasted too much and that the property is preserved. In the state, the people are both in the role of contracting entity and builder, the role of politicians can perhaps be compared to that of architect, and the National Audit Office is the supervisor. However, it is up to the supervisor to monitor whether the doors and windows are set up as the project envisages, not whether they should be proposed at all. The National Audit Office's review has expressed concerns about the acceleration of emigration from Estonia. The argument is based on fact, but then the interpretation begins. People who are, of course, taxpayers really move from rural areas to attraction centres in Estonia or beyond Estonia's borders to educate, carry out and develop themselves. However, the review has overlooked the experience, but especially the acquisition of education outside Estonia, which brings new added value when these people return home. As the Statistical Office's analysis shows, the return migration of the former has increased in recent years. At the same time, the population scientists confirm that this process of concentration in larger centres has not succeeded in reversing any democratic regime in any country. I agree, of course, with many of the things stated in the Auditor General's review this year. The country must and will be a better host. The use of public money needs to be better thought out, and it must be done in such a way that it does not lead to high fixed costs for the budget in the future. Relations, responsibilities, powers and funding between municipalities and the state must all be reviewed. Education is a key issue. After all, a serious and quality-enhancing education reform is underway. Education funding is decreasing, but in terms of the ratio to GDP, it is not small compared to other countries, rather the opposite. Moreover, unfortunately, the number of children is also decreasing. The recipe for how more of us as a nation will be found in the National Audit Office's report. I believe that there are no people in this Chamber who would argue with the opinion expressed in the report of the National Audit Office that there is an ever-increasing expectation in society that the patience and austerity shown during the economic crisis will be converted into tangible improvements and not in a vague future, but soon, in the coming years. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U410	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U411	Speaking on behalf of the Reform Party Group here, I would like to confirm that there is no one in our group who would be willing to push the country's debt burden to future generations for the sake of today's prosperity. I would also like to remind you of the conclusion of the authors of the Estonian Human Development Report that it is difficult to find a country in the world that has evolved faster than Estonia in the last 20 years. This development is reflected, among other things, in the improvement of the people's lives. Looking at our sustainable development and based on the assessment made in this review that Estonia has managed to cope well with the crisis, I too dare to confirm that a solid foundation has been created to improve the condition of life. I quote the Prime Minister who spoke here yesterday, who confirmed that Estonia is certainly not satisfied with its 1% growth, but if we look at what is happening in the rest of Europe, this 1% growth is clearly among the fastest in Europe. In a building called Estonia, we must all live together. However, since we live in a large world village as part of an increasingly interlinked Europe, we need to monitor closely the state of the rest of the village. I hope that the discussions that started in August at the opinion festival Paide, which country of Estonia we are able and want to hold, will continue on the broadest level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U412	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, Mikhail Stalnukhin is now coming to the floor. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U413	Madam President! Mr. Auditor General! Colleagues! Since the honourable speaker began by analogy, I, too, will allow myself to give you an analogy. I showed a colleague a picture in this hall a while ago and explained that the picture had a real time machine. There's a river in that picture. There are five or six fishermen standing in the water near the shore. The joke is that the other bank of the river already belongs to another country. If, for example, at 4:00 p.m. on our side of the Narva River, a fisherman puts a worm on a hook and throws it into the water, it actually arrives in the water at 6:00 p.m. At 6:01 p.m., some fish swallows this hook, they pull it out, and the time machine works again, and it's 4:01 p.m. Such a paradox exists in our lives. Even now, listening to the presentation and the debate and the previous presentation, I had this feeling that we were living on different worlds. In fact, this review is neither optimistic nor pessimistic; it is, as rightly said, realistic. Since ancient times, two ideologies have debated each other. One of them claims that man is for the state, the country is more important than man. Another ideology says otherwise, the state is for man. If you are a proponent of the first ideology, it is, of course, a great pleasure to know that Estonia's GDP is greater than in the booming season and that exports are greater than in the period of rapid growth. However, it suddenly turns out that despite this, the Estonian purchasing power has grown a little, the pre-crisis level has not been reached, the Estonian price level is 80% of the European Union average, and the Estonian purchasing power is only 68% of the European Union average. This is what makes you think about which ideology to be in favour of. I am not happy with these first figures either. What is the point of knowing that the revenue from the state budget has increased from year to year? This is a formal indicator that can be very important for some members of the government. What is the benefit of this knowledge to ordinary people? He knows, looking at his wallet, too, that home expenses have increased in particular, these prices have increased faster than wages; Estonia's minimum wage is among the lowest in Europe. A financial person with bankers or politicians in his circle of communication can be delighted that our sovereign debt is the smallest in the European Union. Is this the goal we live for, or is our goal a person living in Estonia? What is more important to us now is that more people live in relative poverty in Estonia than in Europe on average. What good is it for me to know that our debt is so small, the smallest in the European Union? What kind of face is it to tell people how good a country has reserves, thank God it's something? People themselves sense that we have enormous problems, that more and more people are migrating from Estonia. The population register showed at the beginning of this year that there are 82700 Estonian citizens abroad. But do you know Eurostat's prediction that 100,000 more people will leave Estonia by 2020? So what are we gonna do? So in fact, this review is neither positive nor negative, it is realistic and gives us the opportunity to choose sides. Do we think that we need to work here for bureaucracy, and the figures that our ministers love to operate on are the most important in this life? Or is it important to us how many children are born and how many people come into the labour market? Mr. Auditor General compared the country to the plant. I agree with that. But I think that if you look for an analogy, the Estonian state is probably a dam. The squirrels feel very well on his branches, but the other living souls have nothing to look for. In my opinion, the Auditor General here in the Riigikogu finds a great response to society every time. We hold this serious and honest debate on our lives once a year. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party thinks that this is a very well-established overview. On behalf of the political group, I would like to thank the Auditor General once again, because I think this is an incredibly good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U414	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The 12th item has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U415	Let's go to the next item. The first reading of the Act amending the Insurance Activities Act and the Investment Funds Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Secretary of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U416	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This draft amends two laws on the financial sector. Three issues have been brought together here. Firstly, the requirements for the management of insurers will be amended. The amendments are pan-European and are based on the guidelines of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA). The Financial Supervision Authority has developed guidance guidelines to comply with the guidelines and legislative amendments provide a legal basis for their implementation. For example, an insurer needs to pay even more attention to identifying, measuring and managing risks and to carry out reporting. The purpose of compliance checks is to ensure that the insurer acts in accordance with legislation, rules and good practice. Secondly, the insurer is also allowed to act as an agent of a credit institution, a management company or an investment firm. In this way, the insurer can make a demand-based offer to the customer in a single consultation. Third, insurance premiums for insurance brokers' liability insurance contracts are increased. The change in amounts is based on the Insurance Mediation Directive. The amount of insurance per case is increased from EUR 1.2 million to EUR 1.3 million and the amount of insurance per year for all claims is increased from EUR 1.7 million to EUR 1.9 million. This is a standard indexation, which is reviewed every five years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U417	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Minister of Finance. I would like to ask Kristen Michal, member of the Chair of the Economic Commission, for a co-report!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U418	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Minister of Finance! The Economic Commission of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Insurance Activities Act and the Investment Funds Act on Monday, 4 November 2013. During the meeting we heard Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and the representative of the Ministry of Finance Kristiina Kubja. As the Minister of Finance has already introduced the draft, I will now stop at the most important. As has been said, the main objective of this draft law amending the law is to ensure the effective functioning of the system of management of insurers. As the current Act on Insurance Activities regulates the requirements for the management of an insurance undertaking as a minimum, the requirements of the management system are supplemented and specified, including the regulation of the risk management system of insurance undertakings, the internal control system and the transfer of insurance activities. More specifically, the insurance undertaking regulates ancillary activities and increases the amount of insurance cover for the liability insurance contract for insurance brokers. In order to ensure compensation for damage caused by professional negligence, the insurance intermediary must, under certain conditions, conclude a compulsory liability insurance contract. One of the conditions for concluding this contract is, as mentioned earlier, that the amount of insurance is at least EUR 1.3 million (the current requirement is EUR 1.2 million) per insurance case and EUR 1.9 million (the current requirement is EUR 1.7 million) per year for all claims submitted. The basis for the change is the Insurance Mediation Directive, which reviews and increases the amounts every five years, if necessary. The new law makes it possible to make a demand-based offer to a customer in the course of one of the consultations. More specifically, the insurance undertaking regulates ancillary activities, i.e. it also allows the insurance undertaking to act as an agent of a credit institution, a management company or an investment firm. However, the insurer may only mediate the services provided by the credit institution, the management company or the investment firm. Until now, the Act only covers the activity of an insurer as an agent of another insurer. Ancillary activities carried out by an insurance undertaking shall not entail risks to its capital inherent in the provision of other financial services and subject to separate prudential requirements. For example, an insurer cannot start raising deposits, managing an investment fund, etc. The admissibility of ancillary activities has also been regulated by several Member States of the European Union, including Finland, Denmark, Sweden and France, allowing insurers to engage in financial intermediation. Now a few words from a broader background. From the authors of the draft, we have learned that the insurance sector is very much covered by European Union directives, which are now consolidated into one framework directive. It's called Solvency 2. Although Solvency 2 was already adopted at the end of 2009, its implementation has been delayed for various reasons. In particular, the delay in transposition of the Directive is due to Omnibus 2 draft directive amending the Solvency 2 Directive. As Omnibus 2 has not been able to reach a final agreement in the trialogue on certain principles, the deadline for the transposition of Solvency 2 has also been postponed and the new Solvency 2 requirements are expected to enter into force only in 2016 or later. However, the current Solvency 1 principles are old-fashioned, and so we are essentially pursuing Solvency 1.5 through the guidelines of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. According to the Ministry of Finance, the implementation of the Act alone does not entail any significant costs. The law enters into force in general, with the exception of the management system and investment changes, which will enter into force on 1 January 2014. At the meeting of the Economic Commission on 4 November, it was decided by consensus to propose the completion of the first reading of the draft and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 12 November at 12 noon. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U419	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Kristen Michal! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 475 should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 475 amendments. a 12 November at 12 noon. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U420	The next item is the first reading of the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related draft law amending other laws 507. For a presentation, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U421	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of this draft is to create the possibility of managing claims arising from legal proceedings and decisions of the prosecutor's office (charge, fine, procedural costs compensation, oportunity fees, etc.) in the tax authorities' database and to significantly reduce manual work. Until now, the Supreme Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office have managed their claims. The State Support Services Centre, which organises court accounts, and the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Supreme Court receive the rights of the processor of the database to keep the records of claims. Claims shall be paid into a separate bank account (in the case of fees) or a special reference number (in the case of fines). If the person's prepayment account has free money, the claims are paid out of that money. Amounts transferred for the purpose of payment of claims by courts and the prosecutor's office shall not be used to cover tax obligations. The result of the amendment is improved quality of the management of claims and cost savings. Secondly, the enforcement procedures of the tax authorities and bailiffs will be clarified. If the enforcement activities of the tax authority fail to produce a result, it shall have the right to request the bailiff to carry out the enforcement activities before determining the tax liability. This is where it appears that, at the time of the tax ruling, the taxable person may render himself insolvent. The right to carry out an enforcement operation shall be sought through the administrative court and shall be subject to pre-trial detention. Thirdly, the Ministry of Social Affairs is given the same right as the local government to receive information containing tax secrets relating to the provision of material assistance to a natural person. The change will result in a reduction of the administrative burden for the local government and the applicant for support, as the pre-filled form can be used to determine the grant. By the time of entry into force of the Bill, we plan 1 January 2014. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U422	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I would like to ask Mr Jalaku, Member of the Monetary Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U423	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 507 at its meeting on 21 October. There, Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the contents of the draft and answered questions related to the draft. As the Minister pointed out earlier, the main objective of the draft is to improve the quality of the management of the state's financial claims resulting from legal proceedings and decisions of the prosecutor's office and to save the costs of processing these claims. Questions were also asked during the debate. One question was, for example, when will this register be completed? In response, we heard that the Tax and Customs Board actually has this solution in principle, so that it could already be implemented. The question was also about the impact of the draft on the workload of the Tax and Customs Board. In response, we have heard that this change does not significantly increase the workload as a centralised IT system is being used. The magnitude of the impact is small as a whole, as there will be no significant change in the behaviour of the institutions. Institutions will continue to perform exactly the same duties in keeping records of claims and will only change the accounting environment. The chairman of the committee said, among other things, that the draft was handed over to the Riigikogu in mid-October, but the entry into force of this law is scheduled for the beginning of next year, i.e. 1 January. The idea is that this practice should change in the future. The reason for the delay was that there was an attempt to eliminate disagreements with bailiffs. In view of the fact that, in addition to the Tax Administration Act, this draft proposes to amend many laws falling within the area of work of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to ask the Committee on Legal Affairs for an opinion on the draft. The Commission unanimously decided to propose the completion of the first reading of draft 507 and to set the deadline of 13 November at 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U424	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 507 should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 507 amendments at 5 p.m. on 13 November. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U425	Our fifteenth item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Jürgen Ligi, the Secretary of Finance of the speech chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U426	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable member of the Riigikogu! Members after all! The purpose of this year's amendment of the State Budget Act is to increase the costs of government areas in relation to the needs specified during the year. The total amount of expenditure and revenue of the state budget will not change as a result of the changes, but they will allow ministries to better meet the objectives set. On the basis of the summer economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance and the decision to postpone the payment of dividends in the 2014 state budget procedure, this year's government deficit will be...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U427	However, we are going to see Bill No 506.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U428	I'll get the next bill right away.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U429	Time's running, but there's time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U430	I apologise, Mr President, and honourable Members of the Riigikogu. I also have a bill No 506 here, if the gentlemen and ladies wish. The draft law amending the VAT Act harmonises the place of taxation with VAT on electronic communications services and electronically supplied services. From 2015, these services will be taxed in the country where the customer is established, whether or not the customer is a person engaged in business. For example, if an Estonian company currently provides an electronic service to a natural person residing in Finland, Estonia will be taxed, since 2015 in Finland. The general rule of the VAT Act on the provision of services to businesses remains that the recipient of a cross-border transaction shall take into account and pay VAT. The service provider may, if he so wishes, apply a special scheme which facilitates compliance with VAT obligations in other Member States. The service provider declares and pays the VAT calculated on the services provided in another Member State to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. The Tax and Customs Board shall transfer these amounts to the tax authorities of the other Member States. Use of the special scheme is optional for taxable persons. If the trader does not wish to use it, he must register for VAT purposes in the country where the customer is established for the purpose of providing the service in another Member State. The conditions for exemption from VAT on imports from outside the European Union are also specified. From 1 January 2014, 500 grams of coffee and 100 grams of tea may be sent tax-free from outside the European Union and the value of the parcel shall not exceed EUR 45. Limit values are the result of a European Union Directive. Tax-free verification options will also be expanded from next year. At present, the evidence is only on paper, but now the possibility of using customs confirmation in electronic form in the relevant information system as an export certificate is added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U431	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I would like to ask Peter Laurson, Member of the Finance Committee, for a co-report. I would like to remind you that this is a bill 506.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U432	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 506 took place in the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu on 22 October. During the meeting, the draft was presented and answered by the officials of the Ministry of Finance. I will now give an overview of the debate that has taken place in the Commission and of the issues raised there. There was an interest in significant simplifications in tax-free regulation. We have received an answer that the possibilities of electronic proof will be extended, so tax-free regulation will also be simplified. It was asked that, if the place of taxation of the electronic communications service and the electronically supplied service was to choose whether to tax it in the country where the service is consumed or in the country where the provider is established, what biased the choice. A representative of the Ministry replied that VAT is a consumption tax and should be taxed in the consumer's country of residence, as close as possible to the consumer, even though it is sometimes difficult to establish the location of the consumer. Taxation by the place where the supplier is established is also contrary to the universal ideology of VAT. They asked what would happen if the user of the service came from a country outside the European Union. It was answered that it was then a zero rate and that decision was taken in another country. It was also asked how the change concerns companies that sell a lot of services. It turned out that, in general, the situation of these companies would be better, as they would not have to communicate with tax and customs authorities in different countries, but would have to declare and pay all VAT in their country of residence. The following consensual procedural decisions were taken by the Commission: it was proposed to place the draft on the plenary agenda on 6 November; Peeter Laurson, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, was appointed as rapporteur and proposed to stop the first reading and set the deadline of 13 November 2013 at 17.00.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U433	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Any requests? There's no call. The commission's proposal was that the first reading of draft 506 should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 506 amendments on 13 November at 5 p.m. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U434	We're going to the next bill. The first reading of the Draft State Budget Act 513 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Secretary of Finance Jürgen Ligi! At present, we are talking about draft 513.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U435	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of this year's amendment of the State Budget Act is to increase the management costs in relation to the needs specified during the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U436	I'm sorry, I have to interrupt you, Minister of Finance. We are currently discussing the draft State Budget Act 513, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U437	Then I've got the numbers wrong. I'm sorry! Okay, I'll try again. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Five years have passed since the start of the international financial crisis, but the ensuing debt problems in the euro area can still be felt. The crisis highlighted the economic imbalances and the long-term inability of budgets in European countries. As a result, confidence in the single currency fell, and the economic development of the countries became entangled. In the wake of the crisis, the leaders of the countries of the European Union acknowledged that, in order to avoid new major public finance problems, the economic and monetary policy of the euro area must be more consistent and the surveillance of national budgets must be shared. The Member States of the European Union have taken steps to restore confidence in the European economy and strengthen public finances. The new requirements oblige fiscal deficits and debts to be limited, pay attention to the sustainability of public commitments and keep macroeconomic balance. In addition, the euro area stability measures EFSF and ESM have been established. The signicant change is the fiscal agreement adopted by the European Council and ratified by the Riigikogu a year ago. In doing so, the States undertake to draw up a balanced budget and attach a corresponding requirement to the law so that it is the basis for the annual budget and, at the same time, cannot be easily modified. This gives assurance that governments will keep their promises and countries will gradually move towards debt reduction. The development of recent months shows that the steps taken are restoring confidence in the European economy. For example, the European Union's GDP grew by 0.3% in the second quarter compared to the previous quarter. That's the first uprising since the fall of six blocks. The continuation of positive trends requires the continued strengthening of economic and financial cooperation between the European Union and the euro area in particular, and the implementation of agreements, including in Estonia. The orientations agreed in Europe confirm the accuracy of Estonia's current conservative fiscal policy. Over the decades, we have followed a balanced budgetary principle that has helped to avoid the accumulation of debt. Its expression is also the European Union's lowest debt burden. Estonia is a positive example of a strong fiscal framework and financial discipline in Europe. We have also been advised by the European Commission and the IMF to make the budget rules mandatory by law. In order to comply with the fiscal agreement and the budget framework directive, Estonia also needs to update the state budget law on the basis of which annual budgets are drawn up. The current law dates back to 1999, which made it reasonable to review the whole of the current budget regulation and to put forward proposals for the establishment of good practices in the law. The aim of the draft is to maintain the stability of Estonia's economy and finances, which supports economic growth and the development of society. Both in Europe and Estonia, public finances have been looked at more widely than the annual budget law. It covers the requirements for accounting, internal control systems and audit independence, the assumptions underlying the preparation of the budget and their impartiality, in addition to long-term planning and the target for the coming years of deficit and debt. The new law lays down the conditions for drawing up, adopting and using the budget and regulates the basis on which we balance the needs of the state with money. The most important change is the requirement under the Fiscal Agreement that the budget be drawn up in such a way that the structural balance of the general government is at least balanced. If there is a significant deviation from this, the government will have to make proposals, if necessary, to improve the budgetary position. The structural deficit that has arisen will be compensated for just as much in the government budgets in the coming years as a surplus. The balancing requirement applies to the general government, which, in addition to state-owned institutions, includes foundations, companies and legal entities governed by public law under the influence of the central government. Only the achievement of government budget targets through the state budget can, however, put an unreasonable and unfair burden on the state budget. In order to enable the government to ensure compliance with the requirement and to avoid a situation where the deficit of one government sector must be compensated for by another, it is necessary to lay down budgetary rules for other government institutions as well. However, the requirement for foundations, companies and legal persons governed by public law belonging to the central government is more lenient than the balance rule imposed on the general government, and instead of structural positions, the result of the main activity must be balanced or surplus. For the sake of more uniform financial discipline, it is also planned to impose a net debt limit of up to 40% on other members of the central government. However, this may be exceeded by a decision of the Government, if the particularities of the institutions need to be taken into account. Should Estonia exceed the requirements of the European Union's Stability and Growth Pact by 60% of GDP, the budget deficit of 3% of GDP, it may be necessary to take emergency measures to restore the credibility of public finances. In such a situation, additional rules apply to all government entities, including municipalities. For municipalities, this means the coordination of temporary loans with the Ministry of Finance. A large proportion of government revenue and expenditure is made up of social security funds, i.e. the sickness fund and the unemployment fund. There are no direct budgetary rules for them, nor are they imposed by this law. At the same time, it is important to link decisions affecting the budgetary position of these funds to the state budget process and to ensure the predictability of the revenue and expenditure base. The draft therefore states that the budget positions of the Health Insurance Fund for the next four years will be confirmed in the Riigikogu, together with the state budget, on a proposal from the Health Insurance Fund Board. Unemployment insurance rates are also fixed by the government on a proposal from the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund for a period of four years. The amendments maintain the autonomy of the social security funds and the principles of the social partnership. Eesti Pank will assess the fulfilment of the general government budget targets and the need for adjustment according to the draft. The central bank gives an opinion on the country's financial opportunities and compares the country's macroeconomic and financial forecast with other recognised forecasts and assesses their validity. The new law links the state budget more closely with development plans. In a small country, every euro spent has a higher price than in a more prosperous country, so it is necessary to ensure better quality and clarity of national spending plans, i.e. development plans. At the same time, it is planned to reduce the number of these plans and to set four-year spending ceilings for the areas of government of ministries, which will better link the plans with budgetary opportunities. If the changes in the economic situation make it necessary to adjust the cost ceilings, the government will take this decision in the new budgetary strategy. The roles of the Riigikogu and the government are distinguished in order to organise the strategic management of the state. The involvement of the Riigikogu with regard to the preparation of development plans is increasing as it has a substantive opportunity to present its views on all sectoral development plans before they are approved. This will also increase the role of the Riigikogu in guiding the country's long-term development. May I ask Eiki Nestor to remain silent? The Act also renews the management of the State's cash flows. The aim is to ensure that the state's obligations are fulfilled at all times. This has been done on the basis of the principle of prudence in the management of cash flows, financial assets and debt. Preparedness for crisis and emergency situations is also guaranteed. As in the law in force, the draft provides for a balance between the Riigikogu, the Government and the Ministry of Finance. The Riigikogu decides on two important limits with the annual state budget: first, the maximum permissible amount of sovereign debt, i.e. the ceiling of sovereign debt and, secondly, the limit within which the government may grant loans and guarantees to persons established and operating in Estonia. The government may grant loans or guarantees to local governments, public entities, state companies and Estonian financial institutions. If the person receiving or guaranteeing the loan is located outside Estonia, the last word is always on the Riigikogu. In addition, the Riigikogu decides to increase and implement the stabilisation reserve through the state budget. Finally, what the State Budget Act does not do. Unlike the annual budget laws, this law is limited to budgetary policy; there are no sectoral policy decisions on the content of revenue and expenditure, which areas are financed more and which are developed as a priority. These choices are made through annual budgets. The State Budget Act lays down the fiscal framework for the state; within it different choices can be made. The choices are more transparent, realistic and sustainable within the framework of the State Budget Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U438	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U439	Mr. Minister! The Government of the Republic has put the Riigikogu in a very poor position by presenting this bill. There are people in this Chamber who basically support the principles contained in the Stability and Growth Pact and would be willing to introduce them into the current law. Instead, the government has brought here a complete text that is full of different ideas, from the management of national broadcasting to the amendment of the law on the protection of war graves. At yesterday's committee meeting, I asked and tried several times to understand why we cannot introduce the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact into a separate law and take the time needed for the Government of the Republic to have a proper law and for the Riigikogu to discuss the matter and make a proper law. Why do we have to rush into handling this bill? Yesterday in the Commission, the Minister argued that this separate act was not possible. Please explain why this is not possible!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U440	Thank you. Once again, I apologise for the late submission of this bill! Indeed, the entry into force of this law is foreseen from 1 January. I have a request to the Riigikogu to do its best so that this bill can be passed as a law. Why did you keep bringing the bill here? The coordination process was very complex. A lot of people saw more than there are in that law and tried to arrange things that this law doesn't have to do. Many also had this opinion, which you also expressed here, that it would be enough to amend individual paragraphs. Unfortunately, the law is a whole; various adjustments are needed here. The State Budget Act itself dates back to 1999, and there are various inconsistencies here; many places should be reworded. The main thing is that these paragraphs, which are required from 1 January, also need an implementation mechanism. They shall not be declarative paragraphs without an implementation mechanism. Without it, the law won't work. But as soon as it's logged in, there'll be links between the sections that take even more time to unravel. You're referring to the law of war grave protection, and so on. This was, of course, a joke, because you well know that the implementing provisions at the end of the law are purely technical, which in certain laws alter references to the State Budget Act. This law does not regulate the protection of war graves or such.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U441	Thank you very much. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U442	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! You have tried to convince us that this is only a draft relating to the balance and stability of the state budget, but it does not seem to me that way. In part, it seems that the scrotch is trying to repair the teeth. In the case of public broadcasting, it may be understood in some ways that financial planning and budget changes are being discussed. But how do you explain the need to increase this council by means of a draft state budget law? It doesn't make any sense to me how these two things are connected.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U443	Thank you. I don't have that kind of tooth repair experience, which is why I don't appreciate the parallel. However, as far as national broadcasting is concerned, it is once again one such well-independent public body governed by its own law and which does not tend to take one step with the state on some of the principles. There are no members of this kind who are accustomed to following certain procedures and practices in the Council, as a result of which this one member was attached to it. The Minister of Culture has repeatedly pointed out that national broadcasting in its lending activities, as well as other decisions, is consistently taking its course. The Minister for Administration does not have the direct possibility of checking the public entity under his authority. In other public entities where such board members already exist, the situation is different. That is why this exception has been made there. There was an urgent request to do something to enable the responsible minister to be properly responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U444	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U445	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. It says here that the draft budget is being negotiated between the Ministry of Finance and other ministries. I remember years when the local authorities also took part in this work. Is it your strategy that local authorities do not participate in this work?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U446	Thank you. Did you mean involving local authorities in drafting this bill? My answer, however, is that the interest groups were involved, precisely those affected by this issue. We can find the history of this procedure. Whether inclusion means hearing or listening, it is always the subject of a dispute. There are also softer forms between these two, but there is no great conflict there. After all, we have had to take one-off restrictive measures in the case of municipalities. The sum of their financial discipline is different from that of the central government. I think they actually understand that coordination at the level of the law is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U447	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U448	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I, too, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, am concerned that we are forced to deal with such an important bill in a very short time. You stated that, unfortunately, because of the coincidence of several bad things, this happened. But when we dealt with this draft, we agreed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that we would call on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to assess whether or not there are any contradictions with the Constitution. However, do you sense and see possible contradictions with the Constitution precisely in the context that the principle of separation of powers has been violated in the basic law, if there is a principle of performance in the courts and, in that case, they must also report to the government, or is it really a delusion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U449	Thank you. I believe it's a delusion. In principle, the constitutional institutions were involved in the procedure of this draft. Whatever is said about some of the details, there are, in general, very many things coordinated and many compromises have been made. The legislator and the author of the draft cannot always agree with everything if the wishes conflict with each other. For example, the Auditor General, who has recently left this remote control, has wished for the opposite of what another has wished for. We have matched these wishes and formulated changes even in cases where we did not agree with them in substance and did not consider such changes to be really necessary. On the basis of my own knowledge, I can assure you that the heads of office of the constitutional institutions, who could be the spokespersons of the official position, have all agreed to this draft. They have had a debate which, of course, does not mean that the individual people in these institutions have not expressed any hesitation. As far as I know, the risks are manageable, even those relating to the performance budget. If it's really being interpreted as reporting to the government, then I have to say that I can't interpret that. Each institution could be guided by similar principles of budgeting, which would improve its own functioning. But I guess we'll have to check if there's any theoretical contradiction here. I do not rule out the possibility that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which operates in a completely different paradigm, understands things differently. I hope that experts who have drawn up the draft will be involved in this debate and that we can provide explanations. Each area is specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U450	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U451	The 350-page bill has the advantage that even if you don't understand the matter, you can always find an article that you can understand. That's exactly what happened to me. Here, the content of one amendment is that a balanced budget is drawn up for the revenue and expenditure of the National Library, which must comply with the financial plan. However, when I look at § 5, which speaks of balance, I see that there is not a single word here about what happens when the balance gets out of hand because of the government itself or because of the government's own actions or government-controlled activities. I am thinking, for example, of the unjustified rise in the network charges of Eesti Energia, which created a completely different deficit, not only structural but also result-based. So what happens now? Only § 5 has been referred to here and it has not been specified in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U452	Thank you. I should actually give you a lecture on constitutional law and the market economy, but I don't think we can get any further on this issue. Network charges are not regulated by the government, by the Competition Authority, energy prices are formed from there on the free market, they are not regulated by the government, and electricity is a commodity. I know you don't agree with that. I, unfortunately, have to rely on reality. The authorities must cope with price signals and, of course, the responsible ministers and the government as a whole must see that everything works.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U453	Thank you. Please, Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U454	Thank you. I come back to changing the composition of the National Broadcasting Council. This amendment will apply from 1 January. But I don't think it's that simple. Public broadcasting is independent. As far as I am aware, the Minister for Culture currently in office has said that this is why he cannot be the designer or controller of the national broadcasting budget, because the independence of national broadcasting must be maintained. The addition of the Council to the Minister's representative will change the balance. I am not quite sure that this is at all in line with the principles of the European Broadcasting Union. It is possible that this will lead to much larger substantive changes in national broadcasting. Have the drafters analysed it all the way through? I know the Committee on Culture will be discussing this next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U455	Thank you. Within the limits of his knowledge, he's still been analyzing. I think this should, of course, be regulated by the Estonian National Broadcasting Act. The law should also oblige these people to be responsible for their financial activities and for the implementation of the budget rules. We cannot say that there is unlimited financial autonomy for public entities; they too must obey the law and remain within certain limits. But the real situation is that if the Minister of Culture is so-called excluded from this institution, he does not see in the budget, as he has said, there is no master or spokesperson in this institution either. I've been trying to instigate that I should sit on both sides of the table, on one side I should represent the ERR and on the other side I should be the Minister of Finance and then argue with myself because the Minister of Culture is powerless, he doesn't see what's going on in that institution, he doesn't know what's going on. This is an absurd situation. I do not agree with this design, because the state budget law still takes precedence when making the state budget, and I am not going to argue with myself. I'm sure the next Minister of Finance isn't either. This next one might argue with me, but I'm not gonna argue with myself like that. So it's a practical problem. You may have heard that this institution does not have the right host to stand up for it, because the minister is frustrated by the failure to see the situation properly and therefore cannot be held responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U456	Thank you. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U457	Thank you. The draft lists the government's strategic development documents. One of them is the development plan for the sector. According to the draft, the development plan will be approved by the Government of the Republic and submitted to the Riigikogu before approval. Does this discussion also mean taking into account substantive comments or changes when the Riigikogu makes them? Will the current situation change where the Riigikogu cannot contribute substantially to development plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U458	Thank you. That's the right question, and there might be an answer to the giggling of Eiki Nestor, if we're talking about it. I mentioned in my speech that the role of the Riigikogu is growing. You found this place right. If the government presents the development plan to the Riigikogu before its approval, it seems to me that it gives the Riigikogu the opportunity simply to say yes and no changes are made to the text. The system for drawing up development plans and strategic documents at all has, as we know, been highly criticised. There has been talk of 20 years of dusty documents that no one is using and no one is responsible for filling in. Well, it's a fictional exaggeration, but everyone has wanted to reduce the number of these plans. The Board of the Riigikogu has considered that development plans should not be approved in this way. As a result, we worked together with the specialists of constitutional law and the employees of the State Chancellery for a long time to develop the design that the development plan is a document of the executive power, the guidelines are also obtained through the involvement of the Riigikogu, but it is a decision of the executive power, which is precisely amended there. In this case, the pressure of the Riigikogu is undoubtedly more direct than just commenting on what has usually taken place here. We also wrote at the beginning of the bill that the Riigikogu was discussing the basics of politics and the government approved development plans, but it was considered to be excessive interference, to make injunctions to the Riigikogu, the experts of separation of powers threw it at us, and then we deleted it from the draft. The result is that the Riigikogu can discuss anything and it is not for the government to say what should be discussed. However, there is now an opportunity to influence the content of the development plans in the past. Of course, you don't have to listen to everything. I've realized it's not supposed to be that way. The separation of powers must exist, but the possibility of influencing is offered to the Riigikogu earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U459	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U460	Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U461	I will go to a more interesting subject, on the subject of development plans, I am going to take the floor. The state's budget strategy is a substantive document of principle, which is also included in the draft law. As we know, according to the Constitution, the Riigikogu has the right to do much more with the state budget than, for example, the French Parliament with the French state budget. The budget strategy is the basis for the preparation of the state budget and the use of funds for the following year will be established on the basis of it, but in this respect this draft does not give the Riigikogu any practical role. According to my memory, we have solved this once by discussing this document as an important national issue on the proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but this was an exceptional case. In what way can the Riigikogu fulfil the obligation imposed on it by the Constitution in respect of the state budget, if it has no budget strategy...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U462	Now I never knew what he said. Thank you. I have an idea of what he was talking about, of course. The country's budget strategy is now a government document. We have done our best to introduce it to the Riigikogu, but it does not necessarily have to be legalised. You're having fun again, but you probably didn't have any fun in 2008 and 2009 when there was a serious crisis and it was extremely difficult for the government to put something on paper between us as of May or April. The dates have shifted a little bit in the meantime and remained very general. We then shared the responsibility of the government, and the Minister of Finance was a Socialist. Within the government, it is also extremely unproductive to have essentially two state budget discussions in a short period of time and to share different signals to the public on the basis of different forecasts. That is why I am sticking to the fact that the country's budgetary strategy is much more a government document than the draft state budget. This is the basis, this is not the budget. This is the basis on which the draft state budget will be drawn up during the summer, which will be submitted to the Riigikogu for discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U463	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U464	I will specify: electricity is, of course, a commodity; the fact that it is not a commodity is just a characteristic of Estonia. Goods are created on the free market, when the market is nationalised, the goods disappear and, if we recall Marx, there is simply no added value. But I wanted to ask about it. Alar, who mentioned, among other things, that Eesti Energia, which is a public-owned company, had no development plan at all. What happens then? As has been said, all these areas must have a development plan, but Eesti Energia does not have a development plan. What do we do?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U465	We're trying to develop a development plan. The Council is working on this and the government is working on the development plan and the Riigikogu has also dealt with the development plan for the energy economy (and not only this). But once you get over it, electricity is indeed a commodity, it is a commodity that is on the market, and Eesti Energia is not part of the government sector. That's right. The question did not concern this draft law either. [[Igor Gräzini's appeal.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U466	Thank you. Please, we are not going to discuss more widely, there is a question-and-answer session! Kaja Kallas, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U467	Thank you. I will return to the planned entry into force of this law. The entry into force of this law on 1 January is important to ensure that we transpose the directive in time and that there are no infringement proceedings. However, if this law is put together as such a large package and we have so little time, is there no risk that the President will not declare this law because it is a violation of the Constitution or whatever it is? Wouldn't it be better to divide this bill into two so that these mandatory things can be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U468	Thank you. That's always the risk. This risk must be mitigated by making the law compatible with the Constitution. We've been trying to communicate directly with the President's legal counsel. It has not succeeded, it is traveling and it has not been able to describe its opinion in detail. There's been some contact on the phone and e-mail. The kind of signals you'd be worried about aren't coming from that side. The head of the president's office finds that there is no problem. I guess I'm looking forward to being more specific about this, let's say, the rumor, it's always being asked and it's being talked about. I've been trying to calm everyone down. I see the possibility that this paragraph, if it really concerns this performance budget, will simply be deleted or written down that they do not have to do so. I don't know why to do this, but you can do all kinds of things to compromise. I regret more that the Riigikogu has been put in this position. I assure you, this thing has been tried for a very long time. A lot of people wanted to have a say in things that did not belong to this subject at all. It's all been pretty burdensome.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U469	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U470	Thank you. Minister of Finance! I will ask you a third time, however, because neither Nestor nor Kaja Kallas's questions were answered in substance. Why can't we make a quick move now on the issue of the fiscal agreement that the vast majority of this House agrees with, and leave this very big and fundamental dispute over the separation of constitutional law and powers, etc., until next year, when we have processed the state budget this year? So we can do this thing calmly. In the end, there would be less controversy in this Chamber and in the public, the law would be of high quality and all aspects of it would have been discussed nicely. Why is it not possible to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U471	Thank you. Of course, you have the freedom to assess my answer any way you want. I am not so free to assess your question, but I can repeat my answer. These provisions must not remain declaratory in the air, they must have an implementation mechanism at their disposal and the whole mechanism must be compatible with the existing law. This law is complete now, tearing out pieces of it is extremely cumbersome, and it takes more time. So there is still a request to the Riigikogu to do what is possible. Once again, I regret that it is so urgent. At the same time, if you were to think a little about the burden on those officials who write the laws, you would certainly be more enthusiastic to deal with what they wrote more quickly. I argue that processing the bill in the Riigikogu is a slightly simpler process than writing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U472	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U473	Thank you. My question concerns the macroeconomic and financial forecast. Paragraph 16 (1) states: "The macroeconomic and financial projections are regularly assessed by Eesti Pank. Eesti Pank's assessment is not binding, but the reasons for not taking it into account are the Ministry of Finance. " What does this mean in practice? Eesti Pank assesses the forecast prepared by the Ministry of Finance, says that there are major shortcomings and their understanding is quite different. The Ministry of Finance, on the other hand, can maintain its opinion, but must justify it. What does that mean in practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U474	Thank you. I haven't been through a case like this yet, of course, you haven't, but the government can't afford anything. Such deviations certainly do not show that the government is credible and it is in the government's interest to review these forecasts and justifications. The problem is, of course, that Eesti Pank's methodology for making forecasts differs significantly from the methodology used directly by the Ministry of Finance in the country's revenue and expenditures. Eesti Pank has a macro approach; we have a more fiscal approach. There's a possible deviation. If, for example, they are not dangerous from the point of view of the State's revenue-costs, they will be overcome. There have been cases where Eesti Pank's forecast could have been a cause for concern. During my term of office, however, it has been noted that the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance have been more pessimistic, conservative than those of Eesti Pank or commercial banks. However, a different approach to monitoring, in particular, revenue and expenditure, can lead to a different outcome. It will then be settled and compared. To be honest, it's done anyway, seminars and meetings are held. I wouldn't worry too much about that. No forecaster wants to come up with figures that don't match the other projections. I can say that, from the point of view of public finances, our forecast is the most serious. If we sometimes get any other data from commercial banks, we always know that before they say a figure, they've looked at our forecast.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U475	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U476	Thank you. My second question is on sectoral development plans. You spoke about the part of the draft concerning the fiscal agreement and the constraints on the budget deficit. One of the reasons for the restrictions is that, both here and in Europe, some governments can be irresponsible and make decisions for their popularity that put all public finances at risk. I certainly agree with that. It is therefore reasonable to include this type of limitation in the basic law of the state budget. At the same time, if we look at how this very draft has moved forward with development plans, we will see that this movement has taken place in the opposite direction. Previously, these plans were approved by the Riigikogu in order to avoid the various short-term interests of different governments and to ensure that development plans reflect the future vision of Estonian society. Why, then, are we moving in the opposite direction, towards the government on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U477	Thank you. It was a complicated construction. Of course, governments are concerned about their popularity, and governments in several countries have often been irresponsible, otherwise there would not be a debt crisis or the debt burden that plagues Europe. How, though, does this relate to the development plans? The development plans do not dictate budget figures; the development plans are consciously based on the fact that they are implemented within the limits of the budget. It is not the case that the development plan will be written first and then the state's revenue will be rewritten. The development plans provide a description of the policy, the financing of which will naturally depend on the possibilities of the state, which will be known again each year. I don't see any contradiction here. The problem is that the current development plans have duplicated each other, they have been used little, they are contradictory. The Riigikogu is allowed to discuss everything; no one can prohibit the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu can also discuss the development plan if you wish, because the government will present it to you for review. But the word 'development plan' applies to this draft and, at the request of experts, to a government, an executive document. All kinds of policy bases, including development plans, can be discussed. It is advisable that the Riigikogu discuss them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U478	Please, Mr Vasiliev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U479	Thank you. This topic of methodology led me to a question that I cannot fail to ask. There are quite a few points in this draft that, when you read, officials seem to have written in here some nice ideas, the content of which is actually a little incomprehensible. You can imagine why they've done that. One example: "The macroeconomic and financial forecasts shall be prepared by officials or staff independent of the methodology used for the forecasting and preparation. " Dependent or independent can be about something. The entire section 1 of Chapter 3 talks about how this forecast should be drawn up, but then there is a paragraph that says that officials can draw up this forecast, being completely independent, or dependant on nothing. Can the Riigikogu fix such things in the course of the work?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U480	Thank you. I don't see a problem in there. For example, if you say that the Auditor General, who recently left here, is independent, you will not add to it any list of objects on which he is not dependent. But an introduction like yours has always bothered me. I've gotten my colleagues out of words like "Department of Finance Officers" and "meetings Officers." These are derogatory phrases, as if they were some sort of second-class creatures who are carrying themselves under an oven somewhere. No, the country is whole. Ask me if you think the fireplaces have done anything. Indeed, these officials are de facto independent. I have a strong opinion that one year they were not independent in Estonia. There have been signals for another year. But in general, people who worked for a long time at the Ministry of Finance confirm that there have still been no Minister's precepts that revenue should be increased. I know it was once. Before the elections, revenue figures were written into the budget which I, as a member of the Riigikogu, could in no way be considered right or believed. The second place where independence is guaranteed is the same provision of Eesti Pank for the forecast. It's being controlled. Me or anyone else can't go pointing fingers at fortune tellers what to do. I'm sorry about my uniform, I mean the Minister of Finance who I am right now. Eesti Pank's assessment comes to this end. Finally, an additional guarantee of independence is also an assessment by the European Commission. Other international forecasters ensure independence by offering their own bills. It's not like someone can just point the finger and then write a prognosis of random numbers. Economic forecasts are subject to their own system.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U481	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U482	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I am asking a very simple political question. There has been a lot of talk here today about the fact that the basic law of the state budget, which is such a law like a cluster law, is associated with the risk that its adoption in the Riigikogu for some reason is delayed or not announced by the President. As I understand it, officials have done their job well. The second thing, of course, is how the officials' work has been organised. This bill really got to our desks at the last minute. What is the pessimistic forecast of the Minister of Finance if what is needed is not happening and by 1 January this law does not exist? What are the legal, financial or political consequences, and who is responsible for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U483	Thank you. I can't predict the future like that. If I hear such assessments as the cluster bill, etc. in the introduction, then the Riigikogu has a way of thinking that I do not share and the result of which I cannot predict. Where's the cluster? Where do you see the problem? There aren't any eggs or clusters here. This bill only deals with one subject and, as in a proper framework law, there are references to other laws. That's what I said once. It is a law on financial management, not a bunch of eggs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U484	Please, Mr Sven Sester, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U485	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! First of all, I say that we have to adopt this law, we have no alternative. It is only a question of what wording it is in. On the subject of the cluster law, I would like to say that, true story, a few years ago, there was a problem that we literally had a cluster bill coming from the Ministry of Finance. The Committee on Finance also had to resolve issues of protection and other such matters within the framework of the budget. Now we're done with this. I feel a different problem recently: the basic budget law, but also the tax administration law and the draft VAT law and many other drafts have come to the hall at the last minute. We have been put in a very difficult position. I think it's a tendency. Do you think this is another of our local delusions, or do you sense that this is a real problem? At least it seems to us right now. It is a problem that such draft laws must be dealt with so quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U486	Thank you. I have already answered that question. I regret that this has happened. I've said it many times. But I assure you that the people who wrote this bill have an extraordinarily heavy burden, they must at the same time put together, for example, the state budget, etc. They're highly loaded people. Out of respect for their work, I do not criticize them, and I dare ask you to make an effort. It is much easier to process the draft than to write the draft. I'm a lot easier than the billwriters. I've seen their schedule, it's crazy. Respect their work! Of course, there is no desire to put pressure on the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U487	Please, my colleague Mart Meri, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U488	Thank you. A clear feature of the cluster law is the will to change the composition of the National Broadcasting Council, which is almost impossible to relate to the requirements of the Fiscal Agreement. Of course, we are talking about the financial culture of public organisations, this is the current issue, but financial culture does not include changes to the Council. The current law also provides that national broadcasting protects the budget resulting from its development plan in the Ministry of Finance. This scheme exists, and there is a supervisory scheme. The hallmark of the draft cluster is precisely that the membership of the National Broadcasting Council will be changed from 1 January 2014.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U489	If that was a question, let's think about the end of the question mark. Once again, this is not what you are accustomed to calling a cluster bill. I do not agree that the special practice of the Ministry of Finance is to put forward drafts designed to amend many laws. However, it is not worth underestimating the possibility that changing many laws together is the only way to maintain their consistency. In finance, that happens a lot. Do not throw that idea away with such epithets. Sometimes it makes sense to change things together. In times of crisis, for example, the only way to do anything was to change a lot of things at once. There's nothing to regret. It is a matter of the arbitrary combination of unconnected things, but one subject may be put together in a single bill, regardless of what the attitude has recently been taken. Public broadcasting is simply an elementary part of the government sector. In no way can it be said that the basic law on the state budget specifically addresses national broadcasting in this sense, but the implementation mechanism for national broadcasting is weak. Do you know how the ERR budget is made? I can tell you later. It's unnatural. The law says that we are negotiating with ministers and constitutional institutions (which are already almost 20), which is quite unpleasant. Then they come from somewhere, they try to get to me and make me sit at two sides of the table. It's not working. I've been helping the ERR off the record. Don't throw it at me! You can't stay like this. We can't keep it that ERR doesn't have a host. If you want the ERR budget to be more effective, accept this change. If you don't want to, I'll take note of that, and the ERR doesn't have a host.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U490	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U491	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm still asking, because it seems to me that Sven Sester's question didn't come up with a good answer, but that question bothers us all. Why did a bunch of bills come here at the last minute? In return, you exhorted the members of the Riigikogu to do our work and to do our work, your officials are doing a lot of work. But why didn't all of the draft laws on tax changes come here in September? If the officials are good, is it perhaps that the minister has not been able to organise the work properly? The question, however, is: what happens next? Will these drafts be here next year in September, but not mid-November, if all laws are to be adopted by December? There should also be time for the Riigikogu to work and maybe better organisation of the work in the Ministry, but not reproach the members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U492	Your question's tone was so different from the tone of my answer to which you referred. I'm not gonna answer for long. I guess I'm a lousy minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U493	Please, colleague Priit onion, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U494	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! I agree with you that the ERR doesn't seem to have a master, at least not good. I understand the Ministry of Culture doesn't think he's mine, and the Ministry of Finance has no reason to consider him. You claim, however, that if we add one to the eight members of the council, there will be an immediate host and the Ministry of Culture will consider the ERR more to be its own. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U495	Thank you. This is, if this analogy may be used, also the principle of the State Property Act or the administration of state assets in general. Typically, there is a finance officer in such institutions who directly communicates with the executive. But I do not understand how this balance could be affected in practice, because first of all, the Minister, at least the current minister, does not deal with providing guidelines in the Councils that could be politically sensitive in any way. I don't see any loss of balance. It is important that financial management and financial information are in place and information is flowing freely. If you throw that point out of here, I'm afraid the ERR won't win. I cannot stand up for them indefinitely, I do not have time to deal with this, so far I have dealt with this informally a little bit and transferred budget requests to the government. The Minister of Culture wants him to have a more direct connection with the institutions of his administration and have easier control of them, it is not enough to have just familiar members of the Riigikogu or other members of society in that council.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U496	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I call on the Chair of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester, to present the report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U497	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you an overview of the bill bearing number 513. It's a draft state budget law. I will pass on information on what happened in the Commission. This draft was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 22 October and 5 November. As the initiator's representative, the draft was presented by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. I'll talk in a few words about the purpose of the bill. In particular, the draft will transpose into national law Council of Europe Directive 2011/85/EU on minimum requirements for Member States' budgetary frameworks with a transposition deadline of 31 December 2013. As a result, the rule of government balance and the automatic correction mechanism laid down in the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance of the Economic and Monetary Union are fixed in Estonian law, which will have to be transposed nationally by 1 January 2014. In order to transpose the Directive into national law, the current State Budget Act needs to be amended. This law has been adopted in 1999 and has been amended in more detail since 2003, which is why regulation is outdated and the possibilities for budgeting developments are limited. This is why a new state budget law, the so-called basic law, has been drawn up to organise the financial management of the state, which covers the whole government sector. In view of the need to transpose the European Union Directive and the fiscal treaty ratified by Estonia into national law by the deadline, the government considers the procedure for this draft to be urgent. Now I am talking about some of the most important issues and questions that have been addressed in the Commission. A number of these have already been discussed, to a lesser or greater extent, in this Chamber of Riigikogu. Firstly, the question of the regulation of the correction mechanism, i.e. when must the Government of the Republic take measures to improve the budgetary position. It is clear from the draft, as well as from the directives, that if, according to the public finance forecast, the structural balance of the government sector differs by more than 0.5% of GDP from the balance requirement, the correction mechanism will be operational. The development plans were also discussed in the Commission. Today, this issue has been dealt with quite thoroughly. Similar questions were also raised in the Commission. Will the competence of the Riigikogu be increased or reduced if the Riigikogu does not approve development plans in the future, but provides input in the basic principles of politics as guidelines and confirms the Government of the Republic? According to the understanding of the Ministry of Finance, this would mean that the role of the Riigikogu in drawing up development documents would lead to an increase. Several members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs disagreed; they thought that the decision-making power would be reduced. Members of the Commission wondered where this initiative would come from, who would start the development plan according to the draft. The Minister of Finance said that according to the logic of the bill, responsibility has been placed on the government. These development plans were 100, now 60. The development plan is the subject of the Government of the Republic regulation. The minister proposes a specific development plan, this plan is discussed and decisions are made in the Government of the Republic, then the development plan is sent to the Riigikogu, where the political guidelines come from, which the Government of the Republic takes into account to the extent that it considers necessary. As regards the state's budget strategy, several members of the committee stated that it would be useful to have the same subject as the one discussed in this Chamber today, so that the state's budget strategy could be discussed in the Chamber of the Riigikogu in spring, so that we could have additional contact with this topic. As the Minister of Finance said today, there is basically no point and no need to debate the two budgets; the state budget law is not the same as the budget itself. A member of the Finance Commission took an interest in § 45, which deals with the municipal fine-tuning fund. This principle, which is entitled to receive funds from the Equalisation Fund, should be marked by law. The representative of the Ministry of Finance found that the law makes no sense in mentioning the formula as such, since the law sets out the basic parameters on the basis of which the calculations of the Equalisation Fund are made. The formula is laid down in the annual budget and principles in the law. The Commission was also talking about the stabilisation reserve. There are some changes. I would point out that long-term reforms have been excluded from this and that the status of the Council in the Stabilisation Reserve will change, in other words, the Council as such will actually no longer exist after the adoption of this law. Interested in why it is. The representative of the Ministry of Finance stated that long-term investments will be laid down in the state budget. The function of the council was no longer considered practical in principle, and according to the law, the decision-makers are the Riigikogu or the government. It was a matter of national broadcasting. In this Chamber today, this issue was dealt with in much more depth than in the Commission. I'm not gonna talk about this anymore. Basically, the approach was analogous. There was an interest in the unemployment insurance rate, whether it was approved for four years or whether it could be changed. The Minister of Finance confirmed that it will be appointed for four years, but it can be changed if necessary. There was an interest in structural and nominal balances, why the structural balance indicator was preferred to the nominal balance indicator. The initiator of the draft act said that it was right to treat the structural balance in economic theory. The whole world is based on budget planning, but no one misses nominal, of course, the nominal balance is also being monitored. There were questions about the comments and the coordination of the draft submitted by ministries and constitutional institutions, mainly concerning the comments of the National Audit Office, as well as several other constitutional institutions. If no comments are taken into account, have there been subsequent debates with those who submitted these comments, have agreements been reached and have these arguments satisfied all parties? The representative of the Ministry of Finance stated that, in principle, this draft law has passed several rounds of coordination and, at least, according to the Ministry, there should be no major contradictions here, opinions have been taken into account and compromises have been made. To some extent, the reason why this bill could not be brought to the Riigikogu in such a long time was because coordination circles took a very long time. The Commission was also discussing the changes concerning the activities of the constitutional institutions, which were discussed here today, mainly the issues of separation of powers, principles, meters, the performance budgets of the courts, autonomy as such. A representative of the Ministry of Finance found that there were no contradictions here. In the committee, there was a concern expressed today by several members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber. The opinion was expressed that this draft could or should be split into two parts. The urgent changes resulting from the directive could now be enforced and later deal with separate state budget regulations, either at the level of the Riigikogu or even once again at the level of the government. The Minister of Finance in the Commission, but also in the Chamber before you today, confirmed that he does not, in itself, see the problems with this draft as a step forward and states that it is in itself a proper whole. The Commission adopted a decision to refer the matter to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for an opinion as to whether there are any contradictions with the Constitution or whether it is compatible with the Constitution. We hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will give us feedback in the near future because we are not competent in the Committee on Monetary Affairs to make this assessment. The Committee on Monetary Affairs considered that it was necessary to address the Bureau with a problem that also arose in this Chamber today. It is not good practice, in fact, if the time has been left for processing such extensive draft constitutional laws in the Riigikogu. We have been put in a very difficult position, especially considering that we want to bring all parties together. We have very few working weeks until the bill enters into force. That, in our opinion, is a problem. We will call on the Bureau (this request also went on in writing) and ask the Bureau to submit memos to the government about it. The Commission took the following decisions: to propose that the draft be put on the agenda on Wednesday, today, 6 November (this was a consensus decision), to propose that the first reading be closed (by 5, 3 against, no abstentions) and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5 a.m. on 14 November (also a consensus decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U498	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U499	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! When will the Committee on Constitutional Affairs give you its opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U500	Thank you, good questioner! I don't have that in the memos here, but I'm guessing by 18 November. I see the counselor's nodding too. We ask for this opinion by 18 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U501	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. Do the delegates of the political groups want a word? Please, Mr Nestor, as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group. I'm opening negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U502	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I'm gonna ask for more time right now. I'm convinced I won't be able to tell you everything in five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U503	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U504	First of all, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to say that a new basic law on the state budget is needed. To make sure of this, you need nothing more to do than go to the website of the National Gazette and do the current text of the Act. Then you will see how many improvements have been made there at different times. This whole thing needs a systematic review. Secondly, I would like to say that what is being done in Europe for the stability of the euro needs to be written into our laws. Thirdly, I would like to say that this draft was already in the Ministry of Finance's work programme in 2012. In yesterday's Commission meeting, too, when I asked why this could not be done by then, it was argued that, since the principles of the Stability and Growth Pact just came up here, this bill was constantly being supplemented. In fact, a very large number of principles that have no connection with the Stability and Growth Pact could have been in the Riigikogu's proceedings calmly last year. We could have argued them here, perhaps passed the law and now added to it the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact, if necessary. Today, however, everything is being done the other way around. This whole bill is marked by one thing. Whoever has this beautiful, thick document in his hand will see that there is a traditional and sensible table at the end of it, containing proposals from the institutions and the reactions of the Government of the Republic to them. Kaja Kallas asked about the development plans, and I'm still talking about them. The National Audit Office proposed to state clearly in the draft whether and how the Riigikogu's decisions on the fundamentals of policy and development plans in the field relate to the cost ceilings presented in the state budget strategy and the government's programme of action. A perfectly reasonable suggestion. On this point, a good person from the Ministry of Finance wrote that the Riigikogu's decisions on the fundamentals of politics are political recommendations to the Government of the Republic. Here you go, we're making suggestions here, politics is being made by the Government of the Republic! This whole bill is written right out of that logic. The fact that no ministry or institution coordinated the draft in the summer is, of course, perfectly normal, because it is an eternal dispute. The Ministry of Finance actually has two responsibilities: firstly, to maintain financial stability or balance, whatever the case may be, but secondly, to finance what the State has undertaken to do. This debate often becomes such that everyone has a duty to ensure stability and nothing more. It's basically wrong. I think that in order for the Riigikogu to be able to discuss the state budget for the following year in any reasonable way at all, the budgetary strategy should also be in one, second or third form in the Riigikogu in spring. I do not even know what this form is, whether it should be in this big Chamber or whether it would be enough from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, whether we should approve it or whether we should choose another form. However, it should not be the case that with the budgetary strategy, which is the basis for all budget planning, we do nothing, and then it is said that you should complete this draft, the name of which is the state budget. Now I'm talking about development plans. Their disadvantage is precisely that there is no financial plan to implement this development plan over the next few years and how much money will be spent. Instead, at the end of the plan there is a provision that this development plan will be financed annually from the state budget according to the budgetary possibilities. This means that every minister can go to the Minister of Finance at the time of the budget and say, 'I would need money to implement this development plan', and the Minister of Finance can answer him: 'But we do not have any money for it!'. Money isn't in one year, two years or three years, and then this development plan is pointless. The preparation of such a development plan is a waste of money. Since this is the case, no one controls anything and no one has to report whether the development plan has been completed or not. It's all become meaningless business. Instead of demanding clear action on the financial plan from the development plans, at least according to today's story, the Minister intends to continue in the same way. When the Riigikogu so far adopted development plans, the Riigikogu now has the right to discuss them. I apologize to the minister, but it was really funny what he said! There are two different things whether the Riigikogu accepts the development plans or discusses them, and the minister cannot explain to his party partner how this debate is taking place. We have a stability reserve with clear rules and a Council. The Council currently has two functions. He will see where the assets of this reserve are placed, and if the government wants to use this money, the Minister must first ask if he can do so. From now on, that is not the Council. Maybe it doesn't have to be? I don't know. But the council no longer exists, at least the members of the Riigikogu do not know where the money goes to this reserve. In my opinion, the ugliest thing about this is that one of the thoughts of creating a stabilisation reserve, to finance national reforms that bring long-term social benefits, has disappeared at all in the new wording, and cannot be financed anymore. Obviously, then, we will no longer have these reforms. The questions of my fellow Members, Mr Sibula, Mr Meri and Mr Gräzin, concerning public bodies were absolutely right. It was kind of funny. It was particularly good for my colleague, Oniona, to ask that there is no master in national broadcasting. Jürgen Ligi clearly replied that this host was now coming and that this was an official of the Ministry of Culture. What does this mean from the point of view of the independence of national broadcasting? This requires a long debate, ladies and gentlemen. Even the introduction of the requirements of the European Stability and Growth Pact has given us very little time. Let me give you an example. This pact requires a size such as the Fiscal Council. We will have the functions of this fiscal council, Eesti Pank. Mr Vassilyev had questions for the Minister. We should discuss whether or not this function of the fiscal council, which is put to Eesti Pank in this wording, is enforceable according to the logic of the Stability and Growth Pact. We won't even be given that time. Ladies and gentlemen, the principle that we could do some things quickly and take more time to deal with others does not seem appropriate to the government. The government wants us to adopt this bill as a law. He doesn't want us to discuss this bill. If he doesn't want to, let's not discuss it. We propose to reject the draft at first reading. We'll meet the government's wish!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U505	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Since the Social Democratic Party Group has made such a fine proposal to reject the draft 513 at first reading, this fine proposal must also be voted through. Dear Riigikogu, please pay attention! I am voting on the draft proposal by the Social Democratic Party Group 513 at first reading to be rejected. Please vote! 19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 45 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The first reading of draft law 513 must be considered closed, but I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft law 513 at 17:00 p.m. on 14 November. I repeat, the first reading of Bill 513 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U506	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2013 initiated by the Government of the Republic. For another presentation, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U507	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of this year's amendment of the State Budget Act is to increase the costs of management areas in relation to the needs specified during the year. The total amount of expenditure and revenue of the state budget will not change as a result of the changes, but they will allow ministries to better meet the objectives set. Based on the summer economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance and the decision to postpone the payment of dividends in the 2014 state budget procedure, this year's government deficit is 0.6% of the forecast GDP. The majority of the deficit relates to the central government. Now I am talking about the most important changes in the budget. For more than a long time, the state can shift the difference between the cash-based implementation of the previous year's budget to the cash-in-payment reserve of the state budget. As a result, the cash reserve will increase by EUR 63.3 million. The increase in the cash-pool will strengthen the liquidity of the State and enable financing investments to be made. There are major changes in the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs, where social expenditure is increased by EUR 3.5 million for health and social investments, most of which go to the acquisition of HIV and AIDS medicines. Investments will increase to a total of EUR 7.2 million as a result of the relocations. The total volume of labour and economic costs is reduced by EUR 346000 or 0.03%. The major changes concern the depreciation of road maintenance procurement and administrative cost savings in the area of government of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The equipment will be directed to repair the road surface. I'm not interrupting the Riigikogu, am I?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U508	I can't control them anymore, I'm sorry! Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U509	The government reserve will decrease by 5.2 million euros. This relates to the acquisition of income from Greek bonds into the European Stability Mechanism. The euro area finance ministers, on a proposal from the European Central Bank and on the basis of amendments to the Greek aid programme (which have been approved by the Riigikogu), decided to transfer Greek bond income, ESM funds, back to Greece. Payments from the ESM to Greece shall be made only if the conditions of the loan programme are met on the basis of a regular review report. Estonia's participation is equal to the income earned by Eesti Pank on Greek bonds, which was 5.67 million euros last year. This year's share is due in December. In the future, the resources needed to repay Greece's profits will be provided for each year in the national budgets until the end of the proceeds from Greek bonds acquired by the bond purchase programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U510	Thank you very much. Question, please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U511	Thank you. My question concerns Greek bonds and the proceeds from them. Logic, I understand that is that the central bank is paid it in nominal value, not in the value that the bonds currently have on the market, nor in the value that remained for other creditors after the haircut. Is the money we return to Greece the difference between the total income or nominal value of the bonds and the current value in terms of dividends?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U512	Thank you. It's a bond income consisting of interest. Interest rates are 100%, or nominal. The purchase price of these bonds was considerably cheaper, 30 to 40%, and they were purchased by the European Central Bank. It redistributed these revenues in agreement with the national central banks. The agreement was that the national central banks would allocate this money to their budgets, and through budgets, this money would go to the ESM. That was the deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U513	Please, Mr Vasiliev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U514	I understand that this is all the income from Greek bonds in the form of dividends. We will pay back this money every year, even in the coming years. I assume that this money will be planned for next year's budget and will not have to be included in the budget with this change. But does it really mean that when we talk about total income, when we consider the time value of money, we are actually losing money even when Greece finally redeems all of its bonds by maturity?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U515	Thank you. I don't know who "we" is. It's not like we've never made that money in the state budget, it's been earned by the central bank. The mechanism of service has been such that Greek bonds have been bought up on the market, with the aim of ensuring market stability, but at the same time a high profit has been achieved. It has been found that such a profit margin is not moral if it makes sense to make a profit on the Greek account at all. After all, Greece pays nominal interest rates and, at the same time, we are working hard to fund the Greek programme and lend it to it. In this sense, part of the profits of Greek bonds on the market concern the central bank, one can say, intervention purchases.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U516	Please, Mr Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U517	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! If someone made a huge profit, then someone got a huge loss, namely the earlier owners of the bonds. Does it not notice an unfair agreement on financial markets? The central banks took advantage of this situation, bought up the bonds cheaply, took care of the stabilisation themselves, and now the proceeds were simply returned. Isn't there anything unfair about it, it's my question. I may have misspelled, I don't know if you understood my point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U518	Not necessarily. Maybe I don't have such a sensitive social nerve. In itself, it was a free trade. The central bank intervened simply for so-called political reasons, not to generate revenue, but for monetary policy reasons, with a view to stabilising the financial situation. Those whose bonds were still on sale. They were glad they got rid of their risks. This was a better option than what happened to many who were cut in the sense that they were not paid a market price.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U519	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I call on the Chair of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester, to give a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U520	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you a briefing on the bill bearing number 514. This is a draft law amending the 2013 State Budget Act. We're in the middle of a first reading of this bill. The Committee on Finance discussed this draft at its meeting on 22 October and 5 November. As the initiator's representative, the draft was presented by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The aim of the draft is to adapt the budget drawn up last autumn to the changed circumstances in order to achieve the objectives set by the public authorities. When it comes to the issues that were discussed in the Commission, quite frankly, there was only one issue that was discussed: the Eurosystem bond purchase programme with regard to Greece and the distribution of profits. These were exactly the same questions that sounded in the hall. The Minister here gave exactly the same answers to these questions as in the Commission. There were no further questions in the Commission on this draft. The following consensual decisions were taken by the Commission: to propose that the draft be put on the agenda on Wednesday 6 November, today, to propose that its first reading be closed and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 17:00 p.m. on 13 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U521	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. There are no questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 514 amendments. November 13, 2005 at 5 p.m. First reading of Bill 514 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U522	Our last item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. For a presentation, please report to Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U523	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, This debate today makes a logical point in a rather long process. I'll talk about it very briefly. In May the Riigikogu special committee on state budget control visited the Koidula border inspection post in southern Estonia. We have examined the situation with regard to the introduction of fuel, tobacco and alcohol into Estonia from countries outside the European Union. There were a few more questions on our agenda, but they do not go under this bill. A meeting took place on 16 May with representatives of the local people and the Tax and Customs Board, as well as staff at the Koidula border crossing point. As I once said here, to our astonishment, it turned out that everyone is in a common position: no one wants a choice of consideration; everyone, to a certain extent, despises it. Some are afraid that there will be some pressure on the official side; others do not want a chance of considering it in order to avoid possible accusations of corruption, etc. All of this is human and understandable. We were talking about everybody wanting iron rules, for example, being allowed to bring gas twice a month and not more than 100 liters. Some of the details are about alcohol and cigarettes, but they're already details. We received a referral from the local people, which basically contained all this in the same letter. On 17 June, we held a debate on the continuation of the Outing Session, with representatives of a large number of institutions being invited. Once again, this debate has revealed that no one wants the possibility of consideration, everyone wants strict rules, as I have already said. After all, the Commission decided in consensus that we could help the government. During the summer, the Commission officials prepared the bill you currently have on the tables. In the autumn, it turned out that not all members of the Commission were willing to sign it. Then it was said that this intellectual property was now free and anyone could use it peacefully. I have put this bill into procedure on behalf of the Central Party Group. In short, it can be said that this was once our common opinion. This law regulates the introduction of fuel into Estonia exactly as I said: you can bring no more than 100 litres at a time and twice a month. The Commission decided to close the work with the draft and not to move forward. In my opinion, the number of litres could perhaps be changed between two readings. But the possibility of consideration is clearly a very damaging thing that will cause, I think, a lot of trouble. It is understood that there will be no further debate. We are not going to come here with this bill either, but today we need to put a stop to this bill and vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U524	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I ask Peter Laurson, member of the Monetary Affairs Committee of the speaker's office!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U525	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group took place in the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu. a on 22 October 2005. As the initiator, Mikhail Stalnukhin was present at the Commission. The position of the Government of the Republic was presented by Marek Uusküla, Head of Customs and Excise Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission was interested to see whether the content of the draft proposal coincides with the proposed amendment to the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity adopted on 23 October, which was not supported by the Commission. The originator's representative's response was in the affirmative. The Commission had received an opinion on the draft from the Ministry of Finance. I shall briefly mention this: "We find that the application of excise duty exemption for alcohol more than once per calendar month is not justified in view of the relatively high duty-free quantity of alcohol for single imports from a non-Union country. The limit on duty-free alcohol covers a large part of the personal consumption of a calendar month by travellers. It is permitted to bring up to 16 litres of beer, 4 litres of wine and up to one litre of spirits, e.g. vodka, without excise duty. [---] The proposal to allow the passenger to bring fuel free of excise duty twice a calendar month (à 100 litres in standard tank + à 10 litres in canister) essentially means that border residents do not have to buy fuel, when the tank is emptyed, they can return to Russia to refuel. Given the fuel consumption of the average passenger car at 8 litres to 100 kilometres, 33000 kilometres a year could be driven without paying taxes to the Estonian state. Such a proposal is unacceptable because it would significantly exceed the need for fuel for the average car owner and could create incentives for the resale of fuel from Russia. Point 2 of the draft law provides for a restriction on a person entering a motor vehicle from a non-Union country that the amount of fuel produced in the tank at any one time shall not exceed 100 litres. Please note that this restriction is contrary to Article 11 of the EU Council Directive 207/74/EC, which obliges excise duty exemptions on fuel imported in standard fuel tanks. The explanatory memorandum to the draft drawn up by the Centre Party falsely states that European Union law does not regulate what is envisaged by the amendment. In our view, there is no legal basis for a Member State to impose such a restriction. It should also be taken into account that in practice the standard tank capacity installed by the manufacturer of the motor vehicle may be significantly higher than 100 litres. The idea of point 3 of the draft proposal remains unclear because the exemption from excise duty on fuel imported from another Member State by motor vehicle on arrival in Estonia is already regulated in the draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity (449 SE II) being dealt with by the Riigikogu. We also point out that the Centre Party has also made similar proposals on 449 SE II." As the subject had just been dealt with in substance in the Commission and a longer debate had taken place, the Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 6 November (consensual decision) and to propose that the draft be rejected (by 6 members of the Commission, 5 against, no abstentions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U526	Thank you very much, Mr Laurson. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U527	Thank you, Madam President. My colleague, I have a point to clarify. Since you've read it off paper, you can check it out right now. Did I hear correctly that the calculations were that if you took an estimated 8 liters per 100 kilometers, you could travel 33000 kilometers a year on tax-free petrol? Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U528	Yeah, it was. I did a little math earlier. Indeed, if 8 liters of fuel is needed for 100 kilometers, and if you can bring 200 liters a month, plus 20 liters in the canister, this should be the correct calculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U529	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U530	Thank you. In their calculations, the Ministry is talking about how much revenue the state will miss if these people can bring fuel free of excise duty across the border. In fact, the biggest problem we have is smuggling in the area of organised crime. Even in Saaremaa, 25% of cigarettes have a Russian tax mark. These cigarettes are not brought across the border by Narva's old people, but by organized and much larger amounts. Has the Committee on Monetary Affairs or the Ministry of Finance also analysed the possibility of restricting the possibility for natural persons and individuals to cross the border without excise duty, that same amount of duty-free goods will move into the criminal sphere? There is no reduction in smuggling, but instead of individuals, organised crime is responsible for bringing this goods across the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U531	This was not addressed in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and was not discussed in the Commission during the discussion of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-06_U532	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Laurson. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. As the lead committee has proposed to reject draft 485 at first reading, we need to vote through it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting to reject the draft proposal of the commission at first reading. Please vote! 41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 17 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported and draft 485 fell out of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted. Thank you, everyone, and have a nice evening. Closure of the sitting at 10 a.m.
