ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check first! 40 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, 61 missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. Let's get to the questions. Since there are six questions registered today, ladies and gentlemen, I can allow two questions to be asked on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U2	Let's get to the first question. Mr Mikser has a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U3	Mr. Prime Minister! I will continue with the issue of need-based education support where we did not have a debate in September. When the need-based study grant was provided for in the law, the Minister of Education and Research estimated that 37% of students starting their studies would receive this support. In practice, the number of applicants and beneficiaries is more than twice as low. It can be said that this is a better result than, for example, needs-based family support, which can only be achieved by about a tenth of what was originally expected. But, of course, in reality, even in the case of student benefits, it is far from fun, because we constantly hear and read about students who, due to the insatiable law, do not receive the support they need. In the interview you gave to the Estonian daily newspaper, you admitted that the reform agenda needs to be improved in order to find a solution to these individual cases, as you said. Would you like to open up a little bit more about the changes you have in mind in this reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U4	In the interview I gave to the Estonian daily newspaper, it was a general approach that, if some kind of reform is carried out, in the ideal case, everything will be in order with the first draft, but in practice, however, carrying out one reform means that the conditions must be adjusted at an early stage. In our previous Question Time, too, there was a problem that certainly needs to be resolved. If one student who would be entitled to need-based education allowance does not receive it simply because his or her upper secondary school sister or brother has become an adult, then it is bad. This certainly was neither the will of the government nor the will of the legislator. So, in my opinion, the law needs to be corrected in this respect. But in general, I am convinced that the principle of providing support to those who need it most is right. After all, we have mentioned here before that, in essence, this reform means extra money for the students. So far, EUR 8.8 million was spent on grants for students, and now EUR 3.3 million will be added. This 3.3 million is very clearly additional money to help improve the situation of students.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U5	Please, Mr Sven Mikser, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U6	Mr. Prime Minister! In September, Mr Ossinovski asked you in this Chamber how far it has come with the creation of a'special support fund' authorised for the adoption of the law, which would also allow support to be paid to students whose economic situation has deteriorated since the previous year, but who, due to the long period of reference laid down in the law, do not receive needs-based support. This question, then, did not receive a clear answer. It is known that the Ministry of Education and Research provided that the Special Support Fund could be administered by universities. Universities have opposed it. They've been wanting the Ministry to do that. In the middle of this gear, however, students wait for the promised help. Can you tell me if, according to your understanding, a special support fund scheme has been implemented? If not, when and in what way could it be implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U7	First, of course, the results of the first call for proposals should be awaited, thoroughly analysed and the extent to which the Fund for Special Grants is necessary. I think who will manage this fund is a secondary issue. But it should be said that several Estonian universities already have their own aid funds in place, so the overall need-based education support system will better adapt to real needs in the future. In any case, the government is very open to all proposals to improve the system.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U8	Please, Mr Sven Mikser, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U9	Mr. Prime Minister! One very specific problem that students have referred to in their letters is that according to the current law, their parents are included in the student's household, including separate parents, who in some cases do not support their child at all with money, as well as siblings, half-sisters and half-brothers. For a student, the situation may become problematic if his mother or father living apart has a new family with children living with parents under the age of 24 who live together but who work and receive income. If, at least, the parent living apart has a moral obligation to support his or her child, then children born into his or her parents' new family cannot have that responsibility in any way. Do you see the need to improve the law in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U10	If the parent living apart from the student's family has an obligation to support his or her child, it is entirely appropriate to include his or her income in the income of members of the student's family. Once again, I admit that practice can highlight some of the circumstances which, given the future reform agenda, need to be supplemented, but in principle, the system of benefits cannot be the kind that, at all odds, takes members of a family who are dependent on maintenance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U11	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U12	Mr Prime Minister! It stands out that every time we have laws being amended and subsidies are made 'need-to-need', the people who need support most are not really going to get them. In the case of children's benefits, it is the case that a ridiculous family allowance was provided for, which must be proven by poverty, and now it is also the case with students. Can't the implementation of this law be more operational? If we see that a person is unemployed, we will promptly grant him or her support! If we only look at the state of last year, when he may have had a job, it works like it's against a human being. We have had a lot of reforms, this time it has turned out that it is as if the person who is struggling to keep his soul alive does not get the money he wants. Can't we be more operational?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U13	On this issue, too, we spoke in the previous Question Time. Yes, you can always be more operational, but the more operational system is associated with higher costs. This requires more administration, as well as greater burden of proof for the applicant. It is a question of the legislator's choices to spend money on: either spending money to pay support to those in desperate need of support or spending taxpayers' money to create a bureaucratic apparatus. Operational efficiency should be ensured by setting up funds to deal with the same specific cases. I hope that this system will ultimately be much better for students than the system that has been in place so far. Once again, to the current EUR 8.8 million, the need-based education support system will add EUR 3.3 million. This is a very large increase in student grants.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U14	I would like to ask you the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U15	Prime Minister! Do you think that the bigger problem is that students are not given enough social benefits, or the low pay of teaching staff, which does not allow high-level faculty members to be employed in Estonia, so that our university education is truly world class?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U16	I'd say there's both problems. The state must guarantee student income support at an elementary level, and this is why a needs-based system of study grants has been set up. The state has also thought about bringing teachers from outside Estonia. For this purpose, there are special amounts that can be used to bring highly qualified specialists to Estonia and we have hired them. It is often not just about pay, but about the wider question: it is about the environment, including opportunities for teaching staff to provide education to children. These problems cannot be solved by simply increasing the amount of money. But I am convinced that progress has been made in recent years in improving the environment for foreign teachers, making it more attractive. For example, the same issue of providing education for children of foreign teaching staff is reaching a solution both in Tallinn and Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U18	The next question is from my colleague, Mailis Reps, Minister for Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U19	Dear Minister for Education and Science, We are going to have the state budget procedure for next year, and each area will certainly receive special attention. I will, of course, ask you about the payment of teachers' salaries from the education budget. This is not only because it is a very important issue, but also because, as Prime Minister and your minister, you have emphasised that one of the important objectives of the next year's budget is to raise teachers' salaries. At the same time, it is clear that not only members of the Riigikogu, but also the public, when examining the budget transferred to the Riigikogu, have seen that the salaries of teachers are slightly higher than 5%. How do you intend to raise teachers' salaries to EUR 800 if the increase is actually much less money?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U20	Good questioner! Of course, education has been a priority in the preparation of the budget, both in the Ministry of Education and in the Government of the Republic. The decisions taken have made it possible not just to raise teachers' salaries, as you mistakenly believe, but to know that the teachers' minimum wage and real pay are two different things, but to raise the minimum wage from EUR 715 to EUR 800. This is an increase of more than 10%, almost twice as high as the rest of the public sector and on average in the country. The budget is planned for such an increase, based on the number of teachers included in the EHIS and the amounts allocated to local governments and other school-keepers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U21	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U22	Good minister! If we take the number of teachers reflected in the EHIS and multiply it by the possible new financing model developed by the Ministry, we will also review the burden on teachers, then perhaps the existing fund will come up. With the funding currently in place, we see an increase of 5%. Maybe you'll explain to the public how you get a little over 11% of 5%?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U23	Good questioner, it's really hard for me to figure out what 5% you're talking about. On average, human resources costs were increased by 5.1% across all areas of government. This does not mean that the amounts allocated to local governments and other school-holders will also increase by 5.1%. They will increase according to what is needed to ensure a minimum teacher wage of EUR 800 and an average salary of at least EUR 960 per month.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U24	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U25	Good minister! Surely you will continue to be able to write articles with such content and give interviews. However, we have a budget in hand where the amounts are not as optimistic as you are trying to convince us. I am now asking about the subject that is currently being discussed at the meeting of the citizens' initiative in the conference room, namely the care of people with special needs, but it certainly also concerns the education system and its support services in general. In the budget for next year, are funds earmarked for the payment of logo beets, special needs education, social pedagogues and school psychologists in local government schools and public schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U26	Good questioner! As a member of the former Minister of Education and the current Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, you should know that, unfortunately, the legislator has not foreseen such allocations. I hope that we can continue this debate in the key to legislation. If such a proposal is discussed and the law is passed, of course the executive power will separate the corresponding funds from the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U27	Now two issues registered on the spot. Starts with colleague Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U28	Mr. Minister! I'm going to expand the subject a little bit. We are talking about the state gymnasium, specifically the city of Valga. Your representatives, led by Mr. Hunter, went there every week in a row to praise the benefits of the state gymnasium. When the city authorities finally agreed to do the state gymnasium, it turned out that no money would be given. The same thing happened in Põlva: when it was decided that we were going to state secondary school, it turned out no money would be given. The question is, when will the state gymnasium money come? This year's budget? The budget's been written so crazy, it doesn't count.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U29	Good questioner! The Ministry of Education and Research will certainly plan to renovate the state secondary schools for which agreement has been reached with local governments and to bring them to the same condition as one of the Estonian upper secondary schools must look in the 21st century, including in Valga city. Indeed, the detail of the state budget does not extend to individual objects. With regard to Valga, Põlva and other local authorities, which were excluded from this call for applications because the money was already spent, the renovation of these schools is planned for the years 2014 to 2020. That's a formal answer I can give you. But as for my personal faith in the future of this matter, I believe that Europeans will be able to adopt their budget and Estonia will also have the necessary laws adopted before the next big summer. It is likely that construction will start if not in the second half of 2014, then in 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U30	And now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U31	Dear Minister of Education, You said that there is a difference between the minimum wage and the actual salary of a teacher, that these are different things. However, you also said that the government would pay support to local authorities so that they could pay out this minimum wage. In this context, I have a question about the Narva Kreenholm Gymnasium. It has become clear that the wife of Gennadi Bykov, the principal of this school, who works as a grade teacher at the same school, receives a salary of EUR 1928 per month, whereas the average salary for teachers at this school is less than 800. I'm sure you'll agree that this kind of inequality makes you feel bad about the entire staff. How do you generally feel about the difference between the minimum and the actual salary? Is there any way for the Ministry of Education and Research to intervene in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U32	Good questioner! On the one hand, it would be a pleasure to pay such a decent salary to good or very good teachers in Estonia. I very much hope that this is an extremely good teacher in this case. The fact is, however, that wages vary from school to school. There are schools where wage policies are harmonised, where they try to pay everyone more or less the same salary, but there are schools where wage policies have been agreed with the school manager, which motivates more stronger teachers. Indeed, the political question is whether to use an equalising or, I would say, a communist funding system, or, nevertheless, to motivate stronger teachers to make even more effort and to give the school a freer hand in this regard. The Ministry of Education and Research has based itself on the principle of allocating state money, which I have repeatedly reaffirmed in this Chamber: the state takes account of the minimum wage per teacher's position plus 20%, from which it is possible to cover the fees for class management as well as higher salaries, which are completely self-evident for teachers and senior teachers, as well as for other outstanding teachers, in accordance with the salary arrangements laid down in the school. The organisation of the school's salary is not only a personal matter for the Director, but certainly an agreement within the school, and its reasonableness, rationality and purpose must be supervised by the schoolkeeper. I hope that the future Narva City Government will be better able to carry out its tasks in this regard than has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U33	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U34	The next question is for my colleague, Marianne Mikkolt, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Urmas Paet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U35	A month ago, Foreign Minister Paet visited Moldova. The Republic of Moldova is Estonia's foreign policy priority with Georgia, Ukraine and Afghanistan. If our foreign policy is value-based and Moldova is among the priorities, it makes sense that our forces are mobilized and there is bitter diplomatic work in Chisinau. However, Estonia is covering its so-called priority from Kiev, which is the same as a country reporting that Estonia's direction is important to it, but we are covering Estonia from The Hague, Copenhagen or Oslo. Moldova's embassy in Tallinn, on the other hand, has been active for five years. When will Estonia open its embassy in Chisinau?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U36	So far it has not been decided that Estonia will open the embassy in Chisinau. It is true that we are covering Moldova from our embassy in Kiev. But our diplomats travel from Kiev to Chisinau several times a month. As far as issuing visas for travel to Estonia is concerned, we have a participation in the visa centre operated by Hungary. We also have a very active honorary consul on the ground, and very close visits are made by representatives of different fields from Estonia to Moldova. This is all in the background, but the decision to open an embassy in Moldova has not been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U37	Please, Mr Mikko, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U38	It is to be welcomed that Estonia is trying to support Moldova both in terms of free trade and visa liberalisation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has stated in his press release that Estonia encourages other countries to help Moldova. I ask how Estonia encourages other countries to help Moldova. What have been the specific bilateral meetings in which the Minister for Foreign Affairs has raised the provision of advice to Moldova by other countries of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U39	The last such events were the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the European Union in New York in September and the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the European Union in Vilnius in early September. This evening, however, there will be a meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the Baltic States and the Benelux countries in Riga, where the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Moldova will also take part.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U40	Now, I would like to ask you another question, Mr Mikko.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U41	I tried to find a statement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Moldova's foreign policy priority, in which the Minister of Foreign Affairs has taken a position on the embargo on Moldovan wine imposed by Russia. Unfortunately, the search for 'wine, Moldova, embargo, Paet' did not work. What does the minister who imports you to Estonia think about the wine embargo imposed on Moldova?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U42	I have repeatedly expressed, through press releases from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a clear view that the Eastern Partnership countries, including Moldova, must have a free choice for their future. The pressure from third countries, which in the case of Moldova is also reflected in the suspension of wine exports towards Russia, is unacceptable. That is what I have said repeatedly in public after the same events that I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U43	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U44	Please ask the next question from my colleague Jaak All to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U45	Mr Prime Minister! According to the newspapers, the government is planning to demolish the Ministry of Finance building, which has been reconstructed for quite a lot of money in 20 years. It is to be rebuilt and next to it another like it, and four ministries are to be placed there. The building is supposed to be built by means of a concession contract with private equity, but as the Reform Party has taught us, there are no free lunches. All this construction still means years of heavy burden on the state budget. Why have you not considered it necessary to consult the Riigikogu on this plan and also to reach a consensus with the opposition, which is likely to have to pay for it? After all, in 1997 the government did this when the construction of the Estonian Art Museum and the Estonian National Museum was planned, based on the decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U46	Basically, we are currently discussing this issue with you. You ask, I answer. And I don't think this is the first time this level debate has been held on this new building of the four ministries. If the members of the Riigikogu, even you personally, have something important to say about this building, I believe that those who are planning the project will listen to you with gratitude. But it is generally a taxpayer-saving project. It is known that the new building would achieve 26% savings on its surface area. At present, some of the premises are obviously underused by ministries, and in the new building the rooms can be used much more intensively, as some of them are shared. So the area savings are important, but the energy savings are still considerably higher than the savings on the surface. As much as 76% of energy savings have been repaired because the current building and energy savings are antagonistic opposites, they have nothing in common. The renovation of current buildings is also an option, but I believe that this is not the most effective use of taxpayers' money. Around EUR 10 million should be spent without having the same effect as building a new building.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U47	Please, Mr Allik, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U48	Unfortunately, this debate in Parliament started on my initiative, not on the government. But all right. Ministers come and go, but officials stay. Savings, but has the government taken an interest in the opinion of those who are being put to work in this great anthill, according to the report, also using the principle of open space, which is beginning to get out of fashion elsewhere in the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U49	Nobody in the State Real Estate Company is going to dictate anything about working conditions to people on government payroll. The conceptual starting points for the use of the premises have still been the decision of the ministries. I assume that if ministers and chancellors have submitted the conceptual starting conditions for the use of premises to Riigi Kinnisvara AS, they have very seriously considered whether these solutions are the best in terms of the results of the work. I have no reason to believe that the concept of building new buildings does not mean the best results at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U50	Please, Mr Allik, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U51	Mr. Prime Minister! It is known from history that outgoing leaders often want to record their memory with colossal buildings, but usually they are temples, libraries, or museums. The construction of government palaces was characteristic of the communist regime, and Tallinn was the last time such a Soviet house threatened by Stalin's order in the early 1950s. The last grandiose government palace was, as we know, undertaken according to the Ceauscu guidelines in Romania. When your government made such a historic decision, were other alternatives, whether or not the construction of an opera house, which could also be carried out by means of a concession and which, unlike the bureaucratic palace, even generate some own revenue?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U52	I am amazed at your desire to see something pompous and anti-popular in every initiative to use taxpayers' money effectively. As has already been said, energy savings will be as much as 76%, an area savings of a quarter. In total, this represents EUR 9.8 million of taxpayers' money saved in the first ten years of current operations. I think it's a good thing to work for. Next, workers' working conditions will improve considerably. This building of the Ministry of Finance that you have compared to Ceauscu Palace is pathetic. You should go there and see if the Republic of Estonia, celebrating its 100th birthday, really needs to keep its officials working under these conditions. I think that basic working conditions are necessary both for members of the Riigikogu and for all other people who are paid from the state budget in the same way as for employees in the private sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U53	I would like to ask you two questions registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague Lembit from Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U54	Good Prime Minister! I do like this idea, and as an economic person, I am really in favour of it, seeing it as long-term and much-needed savings. As far as the old building is concerned, it's not architecturally much. Surely it has already served itself financially. In view of the so-called bright future of the new building, I would like to ask who came up with this idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U55	I think this idea is old enough. It doesn't go back to Ceausic's time, but it's close enough to those times. The current Ministry of Finance's building exhausted itself quickly enough, and I can assure you that for the last ten years, it has not been what it should have been at all. Working conditions in most of the offices of this house are below any reviews, and at a time when we are all striving for more sustainable energy use, the Ministry of Finance, which should set an example for everyone, the energy will be lashed. The idea has evolved for a long time, a concrete beginning hardly possible to date. Either way, I'm not capable of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U56	Now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U57	Good Prime Minister! The idea is certainly noble and the aim also seems mathematically good. But it has been claimed in the media that the Ministry of the Interior gave it up because it's like they don't have any money. How do you comment on that? Do people in the Ministry of the Interior somehow calculate costs-benefits other than the RKAS, who thinks this enterprise is positive?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U58	Speculation that the efficiency targets will not be met is largely based on an incorrect assessment of the current situation. In the case of state-owned real estate, depreciation is not recognised on the balance sheet. Trends also do not take into account actual depreciation, which is calculated in the private sector, for example, in the rental cost line. I do not regard it as correct in principle, but it has been so in very many countries and in the Republic of Estonia all the time, that the building is being completed, it is also reflected in Eurostat statistics, and when the building is completed, its entire cost will be included in the costs and these rooms will be used happily for the next 30 or 50 years without any depreciation. Then, at the same time, there will be a great cry for trouble, a saying that the house will collapse, there will be no warmth at all, working conditions are inhumane, a new big investment is needed. And there's another big new investment, which is a one-off cost. I would be very pleased if, once in our country, the real depreciation of buildings could be improved on an annual basis. In this way, accounting would be much more conservative and the taxpayer would have a much better overview of current costs and revenues. I'm sure we'll get to that one day. In any case, state real estate AS has taken a very, very big step forward in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U59	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will also stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U60	The next question is Mr Tarmo Tammelt, Minister for Education and Science, Jaak Aavikkool. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U61	Minister, thank you very much. You have already given a small overview of how state secondary schools are being built. But my question is specific. In the previous round of applications, the first one left out was Põlva City. Will the old ranking be maintained and when will Põlva City actually be able to build a state secondary school?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U62	Good questioner! In a formal sense, this ranking cannot be maintained. This is because new rules must be developed for the use of European Union money and, in the case of these rules, the rankings drawn up on the basis of previous documents cannot be formally transposed. But in the material sense, this ranking will certainly be maintained. Põlva and Valga gymnasium building will most certainly be first renovated in order to start these schools as state secondary schools. I can't imagine what could change that order significantly. The Ministry of Education wants the European Union's money to be put into circulation as soon as possible. There are no delays planned here. And it is not just the interest of the Ministry; from the point of view of the Estonian economy as a whole and especially the construction sector, rapid progress in using the European Union's investment support is a sensible solution. Before I mentioned 2015 optimistically, and I believe I do not have to eat my words in the case of Põlva, not just in the case of Valga.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U63	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U64	Mr. Minister! I'm asking if we're all out of money in this period and if there's no room for another school.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U65	You can't quite say that all the money has been spent. However, for a measure such as the reconstruction of the upper secondary school network, the necessary amount of resources cannot be foreseen, or, let us say, this probability is almost nonexistent. The projects that received the money are all operational and are very likely to be completed within the prescribed timeframe. So, unfortunately, I do not see the possibility of doing anything earlier in the face of any extraordinary circumstances. However, I would like to take this opportunity to comment on the state where we are now. The readiness of Valga and Põlva for the establishment of state secondary school in the county has been achieved. Not quickly, but as a result of negotiations with local authorities, we have reached a situation where the idea of state secondary schools as such spreads quite quickly and gathers support. The state gymnasiums in Viljandi, Jõgeva and Haapsalu that started in the new building this autumn are certainly a good example. I have no reason to believe that buildings that are already being built or renovated will not add. So I believe that, by looking at this process more broadly, it has to be said that the establishment of state secondary schools has been a sensible decision. This has probably also been reasonable in the sense that it was done not by law and order, but after negotiations with local authorities. Once again, those who were hoping to find a solution might have to wait one year or two years, but they will certainly find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U66	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U67	Minister, thank you very much. Does the construction of state secondary schools not put municipalities in a very unequal position? Municipal upper secondary school cannot compete financially with state secondary school. Do you see a problem with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U68	I think that competing between upper secondary schools is a good thing if it takes place on a fair and equal basis and focuses primarily on the quality of education. You ask whether municipal secondary schools can and can compete with state secondary schools. I think so and so. There are certainly areas where maintaining municipal secondary schools alongside state secondary schools is not practical, but there are certainly larger cities where it is not only practical but also desirable. How it all works out, we'll figure it out over the next few years. As I said, I am glad that we chose this evolutionary path. Therefore, nothing is done by order, and a smooth transition gives us the opportunity to adjust what needs to be adjusted on a regular basis. If municipal upper secondary school is needed, but there are objective obstacles to its development, then it is certainly possible to negotiate constructively by amending legislation where necessary or directing investment there. Right now, I don't think there's anything to worry about. Most of the issues have so far been resolved through negotiations, and I believe that they will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U69	I would like to ask you two questions registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague Jaak Allik.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U70	Dear Minister for Education and Science, I will continue with the issue raised by Mailis Reps, but with regard to state secondary schools. As we know, the state budget project provides for an increase of 8.6% in state secondary schools, while two state secondary schools will be added to the pot next year: Jõgeva and Haapsalu. Consequently, growth is even smaller. In what way can state secondary schools guarantee the 11.2% wage increase that the increase in the minimum wage from EUR 715 to EUR 800 mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U71	Good questioner! The answer consists of two sides. First of all, I will explain a little how the costs of institutions are to be aggregated. In fact, in addition to salary, other costs have been included in the operating costs and it is regrettable to note that the average salary of teachers in Estonia is only 40% of the costs of educational institutions. This is one of the reasons why teachers' salaries are low in Estonia. Schoolkeepers have not been able to cut other costs and increase teachers' salaries, as has been done in other developed countries. I believe that the efforts of the Ministry of Education and Research will help to reduce this disproportation, preferably by raising teachers' salaries. That is why, when the total amount increases by 8.6%, it does not say anything about the exact growth of the teachers' payroll, which is not specifically mentioned in the state budget. In addition, the state budget provides for amounts which can still be channelled further into teachers' salaries during the budgetary procedure. This depends a little on the way in which negotiations on the local government support fund and the distribution of its money are taking place, and a little on whether the Riigikogu supports the proposals with which the Ministry of Education and Research promised to return to the Riigikogu during the PGS proceedings this autumn. So there are still loose ends, but in the remaining time, all the problems are likely to be solved in one way or another. I reaffirm: the minimum wage plus 20%, or EUR 960 per teacher position, is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U72	I would like to ask you the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U73	If guaranteed, we'll see you soon enough. From 1 January to March, the time will run relatively quickly and all salaries will be paid by March. Last year's experience was that the story wasn't as beautiful as you say it was. However, as regards the reform of upper secondary school education, we can recall the reform of vocational education that was carried out more than ten years ago when, in addition to the construction, closure and concentration of vocational schools, other issues were also discussed: transport, dorms and study grants. The now established VET system had to reach upper secondary schools once, according to one development plan, when upper secondary schools were concentrated in county centres. Do you still have a plan like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U74	Good questioner! I also believe that secondary education should be treated on a much more uniform basis than has been the case so far. I don't know much about this old plan, I heard it from you for the first time, but once it's been worked out, it's worth considering. However, I will also use some of the time I have been given to answer to invite you to think about the other differences that exist between vocational schools and upper secondary schools. For example, the school year lasts 40 weeks in vocational schools, 35 weeks in upper secondary schools. Then there are the dorms you referred to. As far as transport is concerned, it has already been resolved or resolved on a rather uniform basis. Each year, regional routes are reviewed, also taking into account changes in the educational network. We do not believe that it is reasonable to introduce separate student transport in a country like Estonia, based on analyses it is not feasible. Returning to study grants, I repeat, as I said at the beginning, it is worth considering. I am convinced that, above all, subsidies should be targeted on the need-based basis for those families and for those young people who really need help. So this issue is not off the agenda in the long term. But it is not in the 2014 budget. Unfortunately, in the near future, these differences between vocational training institutions and upper secondary schools will remain.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U75	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U76	The next question is from my colleague, Mr Helmen Hunt, Minister for Education and Science Jaak to the Aavikkool. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U77	Dear Minister for Education and Science, The so-called "basic head" of vocational education for the day-to-day organisation of school work does not actually cover the costs arising from the curriculum. Will there be an increase in the base capital next year and will it also be taken into account that vocational education is much more costly than general secondary education?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U78	It is true that vocational training is more costly than general education for obvious reasons. But in this hall you should also think about why they are demanding more or less the same amount of money in Estonia today. There's a very simple explanation. In vocational education, we have carried out the reform of the curricula of the school network and reached a second round, which focuses primarily on greater efficiency and the direction of curricula according to the needs of the labour market. The savings achieved by the reorganisation of the VET network amounted to 30 to 40%, and this represents about the same amount of savings that can be achieved through a more reasonable organisation of the general education network, both through a more reasonable management of the network and through a more reasonable planning of internal costs. It is true that there are no more internal reserves in vocational training. However, I must admit that, regrettably, we have not been able to increase efficiency in general education in the same way as in vocational education. In this way, we are forced to cover the high costs of general education, and this is, unfortunately, holding back the increase in funding for vocational schools. Your attention is very relevant and we have tried to stick to this priority. The salaries of teachers in vocational training institutions will certainly rise at least as much as in general education schools, and there is money for that. However, the fact that we will eventually reach a reasonable proportion of an estimated 30 to 40% more expensive study week for one student in vocational education and training will probably take as long as structural reforms take time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U79	Please, Mr Küttt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U80	Thank you very much, Minister for Education and Science, for this answer. I understand that basically, in the next financial year, base capital will not grow, but teachers' salaries will still rise. But do you think that the relationship between VET learners and higher education learners is optimal and adapted to the needs of the labour market?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U81	Good questioner! It would take at least half an hour to answer that question, but I can say no in two minutes. No answer! We need much more practically oriented teachers in all educational institutions. That would be the shortest answer I can give. I am quite convinced that the higher education system has also understood this and is paying much more attention to the development of labour market-oriented outcomes, whether it be a Bachelor of Science, Applied Higher Education or other important learning. I would add that, as we know, the Riigikogu recently passed a new law on vocational training. By this law, we basically restored tech education in Estonia. The technicians who prepared middle-level managers in different technical and not just technical disciplines were highly valued schools, the impact of which is still ongoing. In the 1990s, we turned all the technicians into colleges. Some of these higher education institutions have grown longer wings and call themselves academies, but the need for middle-level leaders, mid-level technicians have not disappeared, and I am glad we were able to take this step. I hope that we will also comply with this decision with reasonable content.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U82	Please, Mr Küttt, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U83	My last question is about the European Union's resources, which will be allocated for the period from 2014 to 2020. Indeed, there has been a lot of investment in vocational education by improving its material-technical base and buildings and by developing everything else. Will it be possible to continue with EU money in 2014‐2020? Indeed, vocational education is an extremely important opportunity for young people who, after completing basic education, are unable to go to upper secondary school, not to mention higher education.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U84	Thanks for asking. We already have enough bricks and concrete, at least in vocational education. Almost the same can be said about higher education. Research infrastructure has also received major investments. We are halfway through general education and the organisation of a school network for children with special educational needs in particular. In time, the strategic planning of this network must have been flawed. Therefore, the priority for the upcoming period is not to invest in vocational education and training in buildings and facilities, but in the interests of'soft' activities which are more indirectly linked to vocational education, much more money needs to be allocated than so far. I am thinking of everything that takes place between vocational training institutions and the first or second job, as well as people who, for one reason or another, have not obtained a qualification that would allow them to apply in an increasingly modern economy. So we are trying to develop soft measures, particularly those that are strongly labour market oriented.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U85	There is now an opportunity to ask questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U86	Minister, thank you very much. There have certainly been more difficult and lighter times in vocational education. In fact, two years lasted one period when the cost ratio between our general education and vocational education was over 1.3, but then there was a time of crisis when vocational education was cut from all sides, and, of course, vocational education was stuck and basic costs had to be tightened. I will ask you a question in the light of next year's budget. How do you see next year in vocational education? Can this budget respond to the different challenges presented by the new law, starting with teaching children with rather difficult special needs and ending with education at applied higher education levels? Is there enough money in the budget to meet all the challenges?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U87	It is and it isn't. I am concerned that many vocational training institutions, rather than focus on vocational training at levels two, three, four and five, are trying to become higher education institutions. I do not believe that this will solve any strategic problems from the point of view of schools themselves or the labour market. A little criticism may also be that we still have too much duplication in vocational training institutions. The number of curricula per school is a little too high and the resources invested in are therefore underused. They are not at the disposal of sufficient numbers of students and teachers. We therefore also have internal reserves to some extent, and a reasonable concentration of resources and prioritisation is also necessary in vocational training institutions. But once again, in the coming years, and I am thinking of 2014 as well, when it comes to the Structural Funds in particular, there is a change in proportions in the field of education, it should certainly also be reflected in the fact that the proportion of vocational education, i.e. the share of vocational training, is higher than in the past. This is a rather consensual concept, and that is what we are trying to move towards. However, drawing attention to resource constraints is appropriate; more resources are certainly needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U88	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue. Our Question Time is almost over. Ladies and gentlemen, many thanks for asking questions. Many thanks to the members of the government for answering questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U89	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. It is not recommended to hand over any drafts or requests for information. Let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Public Transport Act, initiated on 7 October, Leading Committee on Economic Affairs; second, the Government of the Republic. a draft Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, initiated on 7 October, commission of the Committee on Legal Affairs; thirdly, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds and funded pensions, initiated on 7 October, the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 74 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 27. I will also specify the agenda. On today's first item, which is the first reading of the Bill amending the Liquid Fuel Stock Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, will make a presentation on behalf of the Minister of Defence, Urmas Reinsalu, on behalf of the initiator of the draft. It is also noted that, on today's third item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Parental Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, Marret Maripuu, Member of the Social Affairs Committee, will present a presentation on behalf of the Steering Committee instead of the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Margus Tsahkna. Now let's get to the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U90	The first item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on liquid fuel supply initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Urmas Reinsalu, Secretary of Defense of the Chair, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government has submitted a draft law amending the Liquid Fuel Stock Act to the Parliament for discussion, the aim of which is one: to bring the liquid Fuel Stock Act in force in Estonia into line with the European Union Directive since 2009, which obliges Member States to maintain minimum stocks of crude oil and/or petroleum products. Our current liquid fuel reserve law is in line with the Council Directive since 2006, but on the basis of the guidelines of the European Council, the European Union has adopted a new directive which should improve the security of supply of the European Union, both in the Union as a whole and in the Member States. This draft does not entail any additional costs for the state budget. Those countries which are not members of the International Energy Agency are in themselves obliged to fully transpose this Directive by 31 December 2014. Estonia is currently negotiating to become a member of the International Energy Agency. It is therefore appropriate to bring our country's law into line with the 2009 directive without stretching. The implementation of this directive into our law of other issues relating to the issue of liquid fuel supply, including the administrative procedure for back-up payments, is not regulated. The Government is of the opinion that the transposition of the directive alone will be carried out when this draft becomes a law. Other issues that are essentially relevant to the liquid fuel supply will be addressed in other drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U92	Thank you very much. You have a question. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U93	Good minister, yesterday unfortunately in the Commission...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U94	Excuse me for a second! The hall is a little too noisy, we don't hear the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U95	Unfortunately, yesterday in the Commission, the minister rushed away and I could not ask him that question. How is it anyway? Instead of 90 days, you have to have a 60-day supply now, and you said it wouldn't cost any extra money to the budget. In fact, costs should decrease if there are only 60 days of supply instead of 90 days. How much is that? Can you tell me how much savings we're gonna get? Or is it just a theoretical hypothesis and it doesn't actually go down?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U96	The Government's position, also expressed in the explanatory memorandum, is that the implementation of the Act does not require additional state budget expenditure, nor does revenue be forecast. It is true that the Directive obliges a Member State to keep a stock constantly so large that it corresponds to at least 90 days of stocks on the basis of average daily net imports or at least 61 days of stocks on the basis of average daily internal consumption, whichever is the higher. This methodology is set out in the annexes to the Directive. On this basis, the Government considers that there will be no additional revenue or costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U97	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U98	Dear waitress, This stock may be under the control of another Member State on its territory, as I understand. Are there any precedents that some kind of supply is not on the territory of Estonia, but on the outside of our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U99	The central storage of liquid fuel supply is managed by the Estonian Liquid Fuel Supply Agency, which acts as a public limited company. All the activities of this agency are governed by the liquid fuel reserve law adopted under the 2006 EU Directive. For the specific categories of products which are to be held as a reserve and where these stocks are to be held, the draft procedure can provide more precise explanations by involving the staff of the liquid fuel reserve agency.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U100	Thank you very much. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U101	Dear waitress, I had a pretty specific question. If you cannot answer that, you could say that you are surrendering this honour to the representative of the Commission, which is why you should read some headlines here. Does Estonia currently have a strategic reserve on the territory of another Member State or does it not? It's a simple question, and the answer could be simple.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U102	To these questions concerning stockholding in other Member States, I answered very briefly: the current stock status can be explained by representatives of the liquid fuel reserve agency during the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U103	Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U104	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. This is where the word "biofuel" went through. How much biofuels do you need to stock up to comply with this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U105	The methodology for calculating compulsory quantities is set out in the Directive. As far as the volumes concerned are concerned, the size of the stocks needed to be guaranteed under the 2009 Directive, the draft would say that the total quantity of fuel will be taken into account when the stocks are cleared, regardless of whether it includes, for example, the 7% biofuel allowed by the standard. Fuels that are 100% pure biofuels and are not intended to be used in transport shall not be taken into account. This is set out in § 3.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U106	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister Urmas Reinsalu. For a co-report, I would like to ask Olga Sõtnik, member of the Chair of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U107	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs yesterday, or on 8 October. This was introduced by Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts, expert of the Department of Energy of the Ministry Rein Vaks and member of the board Priit Enok. The invited guests gave an overview of the draft and explained why this was necessary. In general, the Members of the Commission did not have any particular questions. The Commission decided by consensus to propose that the first reading be closed at today's session and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 14 October 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U108	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U109	Honourable waitress! The minister had a little trouble answering one question. In the past, part of our fuel supply was in Swedish storage facilities. Is the situation the same now, or do the Members of the Commission know exactly where this margin is being held?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U110	We did not discuss this at the committee meeting, but we discussed it in the working group when we prepared the draft. Indeed, part of our stock is located outside Estonia: it is held in Sweden, Denmark and also in Finland, if I am not mistaken. In general, the situation in which our stocks are located is constantly changing, as new purchases are being made all the time. This information is available on the website of the Estonian Liquid Fuel Supply Agency.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U111	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U112	It's just a technical specification. You made a decision in the Commission yesterday. Did you make a decision yesterday to refer this bill to first reading today, but the day before yesterday, this item came into the week's diary?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U113	Thank you for your question. That decision was made last week.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U114	No further questions. Thanks to Olga the Stranger! Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 472. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of 472 amendments in s. tho 14 October at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U115	Our second item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic. To present the speech chair, Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act, whose main objective is to provide a legal basis for better overviews, analyses and health statistics needed to manage health policy. To this end, we want to use the data in the health information system. It would also contribute to better meeting international commitments to provide data. The establishment of the health information system provided that data there would be used, among other things, to manage health care, but in practice this was only one of the first steps in this direction. The draft provides the officials of the Health Information and Analysis Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the employees of the Health Statistics Department of the Institute for Health Development with access to the personal data contained in the Health Information System. The data provided to them do not include names, personal identification numbers or dates of birth; this information is automatically encoded. Both Ministry officials and the staff of the Institute for Health Development only see the number of accidents corresponding to the personal identification code and the age of the person at the relevant time. The Estonian eHealth Foundation, which is the authorised processor of the Health Information System, has only access to the person coding table. Access to the coding table shall be registered and accessible under the permission of the security manager and only to solve specific problems. The security and confidentiality requirements necessary to protect data are also implemented at the workplaces of the Ministry of Social Affairs and R&D&I. Once the changes proposed in the draft are implemented, our health statistics will improve, data collection will be faster, more detailed and flexible and the number of indicators offered will increase. Estonia can also fulfil its obligations to international organisations in providing data. In the longer term, the administrative burden on healthcare providers will be reduced by avoiding duplication of national data collection. I would ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U117	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Minister Taavi Rõivas. Ms Maret Maripuu, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair, as co-rapporteur!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft amendment to the Health Services Organisation Act at its meeting on 16 September. Kersti Berendsen-Koržets, Legal Adviser of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Kristina Köhler, Senior Analyst of Health Information and Analysis Department, participated in the meeting. The draft was presented by Kersti Berendsen-Korgets. The Minister has already given a very good overview of the draft, and I will not repeat it, but in a few words about the issues raised in the Commission. The date of entry into force of the Act is proposed on 1 January 2014. Interest was expressed as to whether this is also a realistic time for IT solutions and what is the motive for healthcare providers to start transmitting data in the new information system. The representative of the Ministry explained that the plan was to phase out the various reports to be submitted under the Health Statistics Regulation of the Minister for Social Affairs. If service providers provide data in the health information system, we will no longer require data to be provided under a ministerial regulation and this will reduce the administrative burden on healthcare providers. The question also arose as to how secure the new information system was. The representative of the Ministry explained that, in order to ensure the confidentiality of personal data, the officials of the Health Information and Analysis Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs have in their instructions a requirement to keep confidential information about personal data acquired in connection with the performance of their duties and information concerning access restricted. A similar requirement is in the employment contracts of staff of the Health Statistics Department of the Institute for Health Development. It is also important which people have been chosen to do this work. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session by 9 October, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set by the ten working days provided for in the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act and to appoint Maret Maripuu as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U119	Thank you very much. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U120	Dear waitress, In the case of data needed for better management of healthcare, one or two or three points are understandable here in subsection 51 of § 593 but the data on the patient's identity just do they really have to be there? Every year we hear personal data infiltrating the police once in a while, once in a while in the ministry, and it's always very unpleasant. Was it discussed, is everything on this list really necessary for processing?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U121	It was not directly discussed by the Commission, but it is not possible to identify "persons" in data processing. However, it is important how old a person, his height, etc. is. This is necessary for analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U122	Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you, Maret Maripuu! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 465. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of 465 amendments. a on 23 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U123	Our third item today is the first reading of the draft law amending the Parental Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the speech chair to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U124	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'll introduce you to Bill No 470 of Amendment of Parental Benefits Act. In January next year, parental benefit has been in force in Estonia for exactly 10 years. I believe you will agree with me when I say that this compensation has worked very well. From the outset, this has increased the confidence of young families when families are most in need of security, i.e. when parents are absent from work while they are at home with a small child. As long as the parental benefit has been in force in Estonia, the principle has also been that the father or mother can work alongside the child in part-time or full-time home. We know that all kinds of flexible forms of work have been added and that certain positions can also work without leaving home. In this case, one formula applies, which initially worked very well, but since the sums have increased rapidly in 10 years, it has no longer produced results that would be logical in all cases. This has also happened (not very often, but in 77 cases) that when the parent went to work, the amount of parental benefit was reduced so much that the total amount of remuneration and parental benefit was less than the parental benefit before work. I believe you will understand that this is not a reasonable situation. This has also been pointed out by the Chancellor of Justice, who considers this situation to be unconstitutional. According to the government, it does not make sense that a person goes to work with his or her child at home, even at a very low cost, but does not make any more euros for it. In fact, he earns his salary, but his compensation is reduced to the full amount of his salary. Such situations have also arisen in practice, not very much, but each such case deserves attention. Therefore, we have completed a new formula. This legislative amendment, which I ask you to support, will always ensure that beneficiaries of parental benefit receive a higher amount of income if they work than the parental benefit, i.e. the total amount of parental benefit and income, is always higher than the amount of parental benefit. However, it should be taken into account, of course, that if a person is working and at the same time at home as a child, he or she receives 100% compensation only in a few cases, if he or she earns less than the minimum wage of the state. The draft does not substantially change the principles of parental benefit or appointment. I'll bring up some of the basics that this legislative amendment proposes. The new formula gives the most support to this option if the family wants to organise their lives in such a way that the parent receiving the benefit also takes part-time work at the time of receiving the parental benefit. Secondly, the current parental benefit formula, as I said, is not only in contradiction with the Constitution in a small aspect, but it is also very uneven. He or she may give a result where, in certain cases, the recipient's income when he or she receives remuneration will either decrease or not increase at all, even though he or she has been working or working at home. The amendments ensure that the beneficiary of parental benefit always retains at least the amount of parental benefit. The benefit rate is known to be the lower limit for all beneficiaries of parental benefit, even for those who did not work before staying home with the child. A typical example is students, as well as housewives who did not have social tax income before. This benefit rate is the minimum wage for the previous year, i.e. the parental benefit rate is 320 euros from the beginning of next year. If a family member, whether mother or father, goes to work at the time of receiving parental benefit, the new formula does not allow the parental benefit to be reduced below the level of benefit. This directly affects, for example, those who were students before they had a child. Nor shall the compensation be reduced by more than half the compensation awarded. For example, in the case of a double-rate compensation, the minimum reduced compensation rate remains. Under the current regulation, parental benefit is not paid if the parent earns more than five times the benefit, i.e. more than EUR 1450 per month, at the same time as the benefit. This, too, leads to a very strong spike in the formula. The new arrangement also abolishes this limit and the principle remains that parental benefit is not reduced if the income is received up to a level of EUR 320 per month. This is conceivable, for example, when working with a really low load. Also, the income is below the monthly benefit rate for parents in this completely practical case, who perhaps write an article and receive a fee for it, which is subject to social tax. I believe you agree that in such a case, the parental benefit of this mother or father should not be reduced. Compared to the current law, the state budget expenditure on parental benefit is estimated to increase by EUR 299000 per year, which represents approximately 0.19% of the cost of parental benefit. Of course, they are covered by the parental benefit budget. The promotion of income subject to social tax will also have an impact on the revenue of the state budget, as there will be more income tax and social tax. The law is scheduled to enter into force on 1 January next year. It also ensures that we are able to complete IT solutions on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U125	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I would like to ask for a co-report from Maret Maripuu, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Parental Benefits Act in 470 s. a on 19 September and 7 October. The Social Minister Taavi Rõivas made an overview of the draft amendment to the Parental Benefits Act. As he mentioned here, the purpose of the draft law is to solve the problems encountered in the recalculation of parental benefit when the recipient receives a working income at the same time. The draft abolishes the upper limit of pay that will not be paid from the date of receipt of the parental benefit. For the beneficiary of parental benefit, at least the amount of parental benefit is always maintained. The members of the Commission were explained and answered by Katre Pall, Head of the Ministry of Social Affairs' Benefits and Grants Policy. The Commission discussed whether parental benefit should not be applied flexibly, but it felt that this issue would be returned when the draft Social Democrats, which they had submitted on the subject, were discussed. The Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 9 October (the decision was taken by consensus), to propose that the first reading be closed (by 5 Commission members and 1 against, with 1 abstention) and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 23 October (the decision was taken by consensus). It was initially decided to appoint Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Commission, as co-rapporteur, but this decision was reviewed on 7 October and decided by consensus to appoint Maret Maripuu as co-rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U127	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 470 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 470 amendments in s. a on 23 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U128	Our fourth item today is the first reading of draft law 460 on sworn translator initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the speech chair to Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As always, this is a very good draft, which definitely deserves the support of the Riigikogu. The Government of the Republic has brought before you a draft with which we wish to organise provisions concerning the professional activities of a sworn translator and to establish a clear and up-to-date regulation. The aim of the draft is to ensure a high-quality and reliable document translation service in Estonia and to contribute to the recognition of Estonian documents abroad without problems. Allow me to address the major changes proposed in the draft. The bill removes the ambiguity of the legal status of a conspiracy translator and defines a sworn translator as a representative of a liberal profession, such as bailiffs, notaries or lawyers, instead of a public office holder. According to the draft law, an interpreter is a person who provides translation services as a professional activity and, in the cases provided for by law, performs other translation-related tasks. The draft also substantially amends the principles of the remuneration and liability of the sworn translator and removes the limitations of the form of action of the sworn translator. The bill replaces the conspiracy fee for confirming the accuracy of the translation with a conventional fee. As the fee will be paid for the service, the sworn translator, like other operators, will be able to choose the most suitable form of operation for the provision of the service in the future. Liability based on the State Liability Act will be replaced by private liability. In addition, the draft clarifies the provisions concerning the examination, accreditation and supervision of sworn translators and the grounds for the award of the invitation to take a sworn translator, the suspension of professional activities and the withdrawal of the invitation. Regulation is also created to allow persons who have obtained a sworn translator's profession abroad to act as sworn translators in Estonia under the Foreign Professional Qualifications Recognition Act. The system of validation of translations will be updated. According to the current law, sworn translators must also verify the accuracy of their own translation. According to the draft, this requirement will be abolished and the translation he has made will also ensure that the translation is correct. The amendment therefore consists in the new formalisation procedure and the replacement of the term 'translation certified by a sworn translator' with the term 'translation of a sworn translator'. In addition to the amendments just mentioned, the draft removes the notary's acceptance of translations, i.e. the validation of the translator's signature and the validation of the translation in the form of a service. All documents whose translation must be official or certified according to foreign or Estonian legislation will be translated in Estonia by sworn translators only. The person will also have the opportunity to have his or her documents translated abroad by a qualified official. The Government of the Republic will certainly support the proposals of the Committee on Legal Affairs for further processing of the draft, so that the first reading of the draft is completed and the draft is finally adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U130	Thank you very much. Please, Valeri Korb, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U131	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. For the sake of interest, I ask how many people can call themselves a sworn translator.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U132	Thank you. No one can call himself a sworn translator in Estonia; sworn translators are appointed by the Minister of Justice. I'll see if we've written the explanatory statement on the number of sworn translators. I don't think it's in the explanatory memorandum, but we have 30 sworn translators who are offering this service right now. That should be quite enough. About 10,000 translations per year are made by sworn translators.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U133	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Well, that's a little something we talked about today, but I'm gonna ask. There is now a valid law on sworn translator. What are the significant differences between the draft and the current law, and what will change as a result of the bill for the person who should, for example, order a sworn translator service?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U135	Thank you. I'm sure you can count it from the verbatim, but I'll try to sum it up. First, the sworn translator will be the same as the notaries, lawyers or bailiffs. Secondly, it is certainly important for people that they no longer have to go to the notary to double-verify the translation. If an interpreter has made one translation and has written that it is a translation of a sworn translator, then the so-called "additional confirmation" is no longer necessary. A person's life is getting clearer and easier.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U136	Please, Väino Linde, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U137	Thank you. When I get the floor, I'll ask you again. On page 2 of the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, point 1.3 'Remarks' states: 'A majority of votes are required for the adoption of the draft in the Riigikogu. ' I understand that this means that if, for example, 7 members of the Riigikogu are in favour, 5 against and the rest impartial, this bill could have been adopted as a law. However, when I look at the draft itself, for example, on page 8 there is § 33 - Amendment of the Code of Administrative Procedure and § 39 - Amendment of the Courts Act. The perception to date is that, if a draft amends the provisions of a law on legal proceedings, the adoption of that draft as a law will require far more votes than a majority vote in favour, it should require a qualified majority. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U138	Thank you for a very relevant question. I believe that we need to review this in the Commission. While we have understood at the moment that a majority of votes in favour is sufficient to make these amendments, if a majority of the composition is needed, this small detail will certainly be reviewed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U139	Thank you very much. No further questions. I would like to ask Kalle Jents, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft on Monday 23 September. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, and his advisers and, of course, members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, attended the meeting of the Commission. The Minister explained clearly, as he did today in this great Chamber, the most important principles of this draft. As a result of the discussion, the Commission unanimously took the following decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 9 October and to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 23 October. The Commission was not as attentive as my colleague, Mr Linde, from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We can certainly review, on the basis of this information, between the first reading and the second reading, what kind of majority must this draft be when it is adopted as a law. So thank you to my colleague.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U141	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 460 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 460 amendments in s. a on 23 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U142	We are going to the fifth item on today's agenda. The first reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to present the speech chair to Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U143	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! With the next two drafts, we will amend the Penal Code. Draft 468 is certainly a very good draft, because it will help us fight crime more effectively than we do today. I'll start with the objectives of the bill. The draft has three objectives. Firstly, we are proposing to amend the provisions of the Penal Code on the application of extended confiscation, secondly, we want to extend the possibility of applying addiction treatment instead of imprisonment, and thirdly, we want to clarify the regulation on the application of post-penal behavioural control. Now I am going to be more specific about these three principles. The regulation of extended confiscation has been in force in Estonia for six years and during this period some practical problems have arisen. In discussions with practitioners, there is a proposal to alleviate the prerequisites for the application of extended confiscation in order to meet needs. Firstly, the regulation of extended confiscation has not been implemented, the precondition for which is the requirement to understand three years of imprisonment. This is too strict as a prerequisite for the application of extended confiscation. Secondly, there are problems with confiscating property transferred to the ownership of a third party, as the time allowed for the confiscation of property by a third party has proven to be too short in practice. This is why the proposal will apply extended confiscation even if a person has been granted at least one year's imprisonment instead of three years' imprisonment in the case of conviction of a criminal offence in a directory allowing confiscation. This concerns, in particular, organised crime, such as drug trafficking and trafficking in human beings, as well as anti-state, professional or economic crimes. This, in turn, should lead to a wider confiscation of the proceeds of crime and make it more difficult to legalise money of illicit origin. The amendments should give a very clear signal to offenders that enrichment by committing crimes is not accepted. The transfer of illegally acquired property to loved ones should become more difficult and it should also be more difficult to legitimise property of illegal origin by blending legal and illegal property. The second objective of the law is to effectively regulate drug addiction treatment. The possibility of replacing imprisonment with drug addiction treatment has been in place in the Estonian legal order for two years. During this period, it has become apparent that the pre-conditions for addiction treatment are too rigid and therefore in many cases it has not been possible to apply the addiction treatment in practice. In the future, the proposed condition for the application of drug addiction treatment is that the person has not been sentenced to imprisonment before. The third objective of the Act is to clarify the regulation on the application of post-punitive behavioural control. The draft provides the court with greater discretion in deciding on the implementation of the post-punitive conduct control. Since post-punitive behaviour controls constitute an infringement of several fundamental rights, the state must ensure that this method is not applied lightly. In addition, the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure allows other measures to be taken to ensure confiscation, replacement of confiscation, civil action or property punishment, in addition to the seizure of property. In order to explain the three more general objectives, the proposed amendments should be revised more precisely. I'm trying to do that. Firstly, as I said, the preconditions for applying extended confiscation will be relaxed. If, under the law in force, extended confiscation can only be applied if a person has been sentenced to imprisonment of more than three years, then in the future it would be sufficient to sentence at least one year of imprisonment. The second amendment concerned confiscation of mixed-origin assets. Under current law, property shall not be confiscated if the person proves that it has been acquired by means of lawful means. In the future, the fact of acquisition will no longer be discussed, but the payment of property. An asset would not be confiscated if the person proves that it has been paid for in full or in substantial part by means which are legally obtained. The third amendment also allows extended confiscation to be applied to the property of a legal person. Under current law, property obtained directly from a criminal offence or property belonging to a third party can be confiscated from a legal person. The fourth amendment logically links the time limits for confiscation from a third party to the time limits for the expiry of criminal offences. The time frame depends on the degree of severity of the criminal offence being processed by extended confiscation. In this way, extended confiscation of third-party property acquired earlier than 10 years before the commission of a first-degree crime could not be applied in the future. In the case of a second-degree crime, the deadline remains five years. The fifth amendment increases the court's decision-making power. This means that the court can decide in any particular case whether or not to apply extended confiscation. In so doing, the court must assess the circumstances which give rise to the presumption that the person's actual standard of living or standard of living does not correspond to his or her legal income, or that the nature of the crime or past crimes committed is such as to make it possible to obtain a material benefit. It is therefore for the court to assess for itself whether or not there is a need to apply extended confiscation, in the light of the circumstances in the particular case. However, it will continue to be mandatory in each case to confiscate property obtained directly by a criminal offence. Sixthly, regardless of the previous sentence, drug addiction treatment can be applied to all convicted convicted persons who have committed a crime because of drug addiction and need drug addiction treatment. The amendment will allow a much wider application of addiction treatment, which in turn will hopefully contribute to the redevelopment of addictive criminals and to the reduction of crime. Current practice has shown that the vast majority of drug addicts who have been tried for committing a crime and who have qualified as drug addicts in need of treatment have not wished to replace prison with addictive treatment. This is mainly because the convicted have not yet been motivated for addiction treatment at this stage, and they have also lacked actual prison experience. Seventhly, I would like to mention a change in post-punitive behaviour control. From now on, the law explicitly states that the application of post-punitive conduct control is a judgment of the judge's discretion. The judge is also obliged by law to assess the consequences of applying a post-punished conduct control to the sentenced person. As a last important amendment, I would point out that the Code of Criminal Procedure is being amended in such a way that other means of securing the action can be applied alongside the seizure of property. Any limitation of fundamental rights must be proportionate. As a result, seizure of property is not always the most appropriate measure, it would often be sufficient to apply less stringent measures, such as the imposition of a judicial mortgage. So I have introduced you to the main changes. As a representative of the Government, I support the decision of the Committee on Legal Affairs to conclude the first reading of the draft and to move forward with the draft procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U144	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, vice-chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U145	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft proposed by the Government on Monday 23 September. Kalle Laanet, Andres Anvelt from 11.12 a.m., Margus Hanson, who replaced Igor Gräzini, Kalle Jents, Marika Tuus-Laul, Neeme Suur, Peeter Võsa, Siim Kabrits and Valdo Randpere and advisers Linnar Liivamägi and Raini Laide took part in the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, Kätlin Ots, Advisor to the Legislative and Development Service, Angelika Sarapuu, Adviser to the Supervisory and Legal Service Office, Liisi Pars, Adviser to the Minister Madis Timpson, Head of the Private Law Service, Indrek Niklus, and Adviser to the same service Vaike Murumets. The Minister introduced the bill to us in detail. The draft should, in my opinion and in the opinion of the other members of the Commission, contribute to the fight against crime, especially organised crime. It also has a certain preventive effect, because the measures that have been introduced here will certainly make people wonder whether or not to go down the road to crime. The Commission decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda today (with 8 members, no votes against or abstentions). We have a proposal to conclude the first reading (by 8 Commission members, no votes against or abstentions) and to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 23 October 2013 (by 8 Commission members, no votes against or abstentions). The last decision was to appoint Mr Kalle Laane as rapporteur (the decision was consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U146	Thank you very much. Any questions? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 468 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 468 amendments. a on 23 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U147	Our sixth and last item on the agenda today is the first reading of draft law 469 amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Justice of the Chair, for presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U148	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is a transposition of one directive, but it has certainly already been the subject of debate and will continue to do so. First of all, let me report to you the general purpose of the draft. If you try to do this very briefly, it can be said that the aim of the draft is to prevent sexual crimes against children and access to child pornography more effectively. The proposal must better protect children from sexual abuse and thus help to ensure their well-being and health by increasing the internal security of the country and the security of persons. On the formal side, as I said, Estonian laws will be brought into line with this draft Directive 2011/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography and replacing one of the Council's earlier Framework Decisions. The Directive lays down minimum requirements for the constituent elements and penalties for child sexual abuse, as well as provisions for the prevention of such offences and for the protection of victims. I will now mention the main changes that this draft entails. Firstly, the draft extends the concept of family dependence as an aggravating circumstance in such a way that family dependence can also mean simply living together without providing economic support or support. For example, the child's parents are divorced and the child's mother lives with a new partner who sexually abuses the child. In such a situation, the bill allows sharing common housing with the victim to be regarded as an aggravating circumstance and consequently gives rise to a more severe penalty. Secondly, § 141 and 142 of the Penal Code are combined with the Bill (§ 141 deals with rape and § 142 deals with his involvement in satisfying sexual passion in a different way from sexual intercourse against the will of a person). The law in force makes two distinctions: the intercourse with a person against his will and the involvement of a person against his will to satisfy sexual passion in a different way than sexual intercourse. However, such a distinction is not justified. In both cases, this is a brutal violation of a person's sexual liberty. According to the bill, rape against the will of a person would be an intercourse with him as well as other acts of sexual violence. Thus, the current term of rape becomes broader. The combined provision covers all such acts, including those previously dealt with in § 141 and 142. Thirdly, it is also proposed to merge § 143 on coercion and § 1431 on coercion. The activity of an adult in relation to a minor, which is currently laid down as a qualifying form, or in subsection 143 (2) (1) and Article 1431 (2) (1) is excluded from the qualifying circumstances and a separate formation is provided as a new formation in § 1432 'Act of sex or other sexual nature by virtue of influence', since the anti-sexual abuse of children directive requires the coverage of additional constituent elements in the act in question. For example, in addition to exploiting the status of addiction, it must also be punishable to take advantage of the power or trust gained. According to the bill, an adult is punished for entering sexually or other acts of sexual nature involving a person under 18 years of age, taking advantage of the victim's dependence on the perpetrator or the influence or trust gained by abuse, with between two and eight years of imprisonment. If it is repeated, the same act is punishable by three to eight years of imprisonment, or the lower limit is three years instead of two. Amendment four. The Anti-Sex Abuse Directive provides for the liability of legal persons for all offences covered by the Directive. Consequently, the draft introduces the liability of the legal person into the following sections of the Penal Code: 141, 143, 1432, 145, 1451 and 1751. The draft revision of the Penal Code, which is about to be completed at the Ministry of Justice, is also based on the assumption that in principle the liability of a legal person is possible for all offences, which is why this paragraph is included in those sections where it is currently not. The commission of these offences by a legal person is obviously exceptional and unlikely, while, in theory, sanctions should also be provided for. Amendment five. The draft tightens up a number of penalty rates for sexual crimes against children. For example, according to the draft law, parent, foster parent or grandparent will be sentenced to up to eight years of imprisonment instead of having sex with a child or grandson or any other act of a sexual nature. Amendment six. One of the aims of the directive against child sexual abuse is to criminalise child participation in sexual activities within the framework of child prostitution. This provision plays an important role in combating child prostitution as a whole, as the criminalisation of the purchase of sex also reduces demand from various studies. The prohibition of sexual intercourse or acts of sexual nature within the framework of child prostitution with a person under 18 years of age is clearly laid down. Such conduct shall be punishable by imprisonment of up to three years. The same act, if committed against a person under 14 years of age, shall be punishable by imprisonment of up to five years. Therefore, no sexual services provided by prostitutes under 18 years of age may be used or purchased. It is the responsibility of the person who wants to buy the services that makes the prostitute satisfied or identified at the age of the prostitute. Amendment seven. As a whole new crime, the Penal Code is knowingly adding access to child pornography. It criminalises, for example, accessing websites containing child pornography on the Internet and viewing pictures and films there, even if they are not drawn onto their own computer. A person can be held liable for this act if he knows that child pornography material can be seen on this website, but he still enters it. Such awareness may be derived, for example, from multiple page entries, the existence of a user account or financial transfers to a service provider. So, accidentally or by chance, those on such a page will not be punished. Nor is this provision, under any circumstances, a wish to censor the Internet in any way. The eighth amendment. The draft extends the circle of people working with children, who must be sure before being recruited that they have not been punished for sexual crimes. The purpose of the provision is to restrict access to children and the possibility of being alone with certain persons with a certain penalty. This group includes, for example, child protection workers and other persons directly exposed to children in their work, as well as volunteers and trainees working with children. It also includes persons who, due to the nature of the job manual or work, are in direct contact with children, such as municipal child welfare workers or social workers, as well as persons who are in direct contact with children in other institutions, not only for children, such as hospital social workers. Similarly, such individuals are police officers whose instructions require work with children, or youth police officers. I would point out here that the draft law does not cover all persons who are in contact with children, but concerns those for whom such control is required by the code of conduct, the law or the nature of the work. This requirement certainly does not apply to persons who, in the performance of their duties, serve children, such as sellers or hairdressers. Their punishment doesn't have to be checked in the criminal records. The limitation on working with children, which ensures that the professions in which children are exposed are prevented from working for persons who have been punished or who have been sentenced to coercive treatment for crimes related to trafficking in human beings, crimes against sexual self-determination, prostitution or child pornography, has been in force in Estonia since 20 July 2007. This is a permanent ban. Currently, the right to work with children is restricted by several laws. This has created a situation where restrictions imposed on persons working with children are formulated differently in different legislations and there is no unambiguous approach. Similarly, the existing list of posts or services subject to restrictions is not sufficient. In the opinion of experts from different fields, it is reasonable to bring these restrictions together in a single law in the interests of clarity. To this end, the Child Welfare Act was proposed. As far as I know, the expected date for the entry into force of the new Child Protection Act is scheduled for January 2015. The Riigikogu can discuss this in greater detail. However, in order to ensure that the directive against child sexual abuse is transposed in time, restrictions on the employment of persons working with children must be introduced earlier. That's why we're talking about this in the bill. I believe that it is quite appropriate to conclude here, to thank the Committee on Legal Affairs for a constructive debate and to conclude the first reading today, so that it is possible to work on this draft between the first reading and the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U149	Thank you very much. Please, Marko Pomerants, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U150	Thanks! I have been in the debate on the draft, which is why I know the nuances, but I still have to ask. In the last few weeks, the Estonian media have a common understanding that there is a draft in the Riigikogu that intends to change the age limit for sexual self-determination. Please, just answer: has this draft, which the government sent us, dealt with this question in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U151	Thank you. Very simply, I can't answer, I'm trying to explain a little bit. Every sexual self-determination in the Republic of Estonia is 14 years old. What's this bill doing? Brings in a differential, in other words, distinguishes between acts that are subject to a general age of sexual self-determination, and acts in which a general age does not apply and applies to an elevated age of sexual self-determination. In my report, I read exactly in which case the age of sexual self-determination is not 14 years, but 18 years. This bill creates a difference between the age of general sexual self-determination and specific cases. These special cases are listed in detail in the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U152	Thank you very much. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U153	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of Justice! During its membership, the Social Democratic Party has issued a draft of the Riigikogu procedure which criminalises the purchase of sex underage. The bill has gone through the first reading and is now probably somewhere on the shelf. Will the adoption of this bill, initiated by the government as a law, solve all the problems raised in the draft Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U154	Thank you. To answer, the two drafts should be properly compared. I cannot allow every detail in your bill to be covered by this bill. However, it is very clear in which case (I also pointed out the difference when answering the previous question) we are dealing with acts committed against a person who is 14 years old or younger, and in which case the acts committed against a person who is 18 years old or younger. The draft offers a solution that is compatible with the Directive. In certain cases, Estonian law enforcement authorities must treat sexual self-determination as every higher than 14 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U155	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, Minister! Of course, it is difficult for the practical sense of an executive lawyer to understand that, in the event that this bill becomes a law, for example, a legal person or a company may in the future receive a criminal charge for the rape of a natural person. But all right, if that's the case, then it is. However, why is there a financial penalty for a legal person for this provision, but there is no additional option, such as a compulsory winding-up, given the particular nature and possible gravity of the act it has committed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U157	Thank you. This is certainly a very good debate for the Committee on Legal Affairs. I am pleased to note that the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs is also in the Working Group on the Revision of Penal Law, where, together with scientists and experts, solutions are being sought to the bottlenecks of the Penal Code. One of the drawbacks is the wider liability of the legal person and the extent to which the winding-up of the legal person could be used as a sanction. The general understanding is that the judicial winding-up of a legal person as a punitive measure is not effective. Consequently, it is most likely that such a punitive measure, as a legal person, should be abolished at all. Returning to the beginning of the question, it has to be admitted that, for example, it is possible to finance, through a legal person, the ordering of the rape of a business partner's daughter. In this case, it is also possible to clearly identify the composition of the liability of the legal person. This is not just a theoretical opportunity. The liability of a legal person must be laid down, for example, in cases where a person is involved in the rape of a loved one: the people behind the company use their own company or someone else's company to order and pay any funds to a third party, maybe to a legal person, and then the money goes to the perpetrator. This is why the liability of the legal person must be laid down. The financial penalty has been chosen rather because a judicial winding-up rather than a punitive measure is not effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U158	Thank you very much. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U159	Thank you, Madam President. I'm a co-rapporteur, but I'm taking this opportunity to ask the Minister for his opinion. In the context of the purchase of underage sex, a concept such as child prostitution has been introduced; the explanatory memorandum speaks very clearly about child prostitutes. Should it not be accompanied by the fear that we will, in fact, label those minors who are certainly not dealing with such things with great joy or happiness when we go to court as prostitutes? They often do not do so with great consciousness, but with life's coercion. Is the expression "child prostitute" quite correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U160	Thank you. The question is certainly appropriate. As I said in the introduction, the main formal objective of this draft is also why, for example, what is currently being discussed and the previous item is not linked to the fact that this draft takes over one directive, the directive on combating child pornography. We have agreed in Estonia that we will generally try to remain within the framework of the directive when we transpose the directive. The wording of the directive has been quite much transposed into the draft, and these terms have been used here. I very much hope that we will not label anyone, because we will take responsibility for the person who is underage buying this service, not for the minor himself. We're going to court, not against a child prostitute, but against a person who has used the child prostitute service. If necessary, the hearing may be declared closed. As regards the wording of the law, we are forced to look at what the directive says, and if it is possible to harmonise concepts, this debate should not be feared. However, in the case of this draft, we must stick to the wording of the directive and the proposals made there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U161	Thank you very much. Any more questions? There are no questions. I would like to ask Andres Anvelt, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U162	Madam President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of co-rapporteuring Bill 469 at first reading. This draft was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 23 September 2013. People's delegates Kalle Laane, Andres Anvelt, Margus Hanson, Kalle Jents, Marika Tuus-Laul, Neeme Suur, Peeter Võsa, Siim Kabrits and Valdo Randpere took part in the discussion. During the discussion on this item, the Minister gave an overview of the progress of the draft. The draft will bring a number of our laws into line with the 2011 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down minimum requirements for the constituent elements and penalties for the sexual abuse of children, as well as provisions for the prevention of such crimes and the protection of victims of crime. The Commission also had a discussion on this issue. The minister's presentation stopped on it. Many of the questions raised in this Chamber were of the same nature as the questions raised in the Commission. The relationship between the draft and the so-called Lanzarote Convention and consistency with the ongoing revision of penal law were also discussed. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda today (by 8 parliamentarians, no one opposed, with the abstention of Mr Võsa) and to propose that the first reading be closed (the same result) and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 23 October. A consensus was proposed to appoint Andres Anvelt as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U163	Thank you very much. Please, Marianne Mikko, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U164	Thank you very much. As my colleague, Helmen Kütt, has already mentioned, the Social Democratic Party has issued a draft for the Riigikogu procedure, which criminalises the purchase of sex underage. However, our female body, Kadri, would have gone even further and would have wanted to criminalize the purchase of sex as such. But the thing. In bill 469, there is a provision about child prostitution, an explanatory memorandum about child prostitutes. What is your personal opinion, doesn't such an approach create a situation where a minor victim, to say no to the victim, is made guilty with that wording? Is that reasonable and beneficial?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U165	Thank you. The Minister has already answered this question to some extent. My opinion is a little different. I think that if we take over this very important directive, we will take over it not only formally, but also in substance. The subject of buying sex is, in any case, a prostitute within the meaning of this law. I do think that (in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I am sure we are also talking about this) that, particularly in the case of minors, this expression should be ruled out already because the judge has the right to declare the hearing closed, but the media have an interest in such matters, whatever it takes. Even minor formal inaccuracies or hints in the law provide an opportunity to turn this situation to the detriment not of the accused but of the same minor, since he is still taking part in this trial as a child prostitute in the current text of the draft. It certainly doesn't have a good effect on his future. This must be taken into account in particular in the case of a single case. As we know, the fee may be any kind, a minor does not have to be a professional prostitute, and it could really be a one-time case. Certainly, harming a minor should be avoided. I hope that when we discuss, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, our draft group, where we talk about acquiring sex or otherwise satisfying sexual passion, for offering or transferring fees to minors, also in terms of age, to minors, we will find a consensus and these two drafts can be united. We are currently transposing the European directive, and I have realised that the zeal of the Estonian state in such cases is always very great. But if we do so in a good way and in the interests of our people, I do not believe that the European Commission will impose a fine on us for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U166	Thank you. Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I will ask you once again about the subject which has already been raised in this Chamber today and which was also being discussed in the Commission. It's still that legal person's responsibility. Surely a legal person cannot, for example, be the perpetrator of rape; he can be an aide. From this point of view, we can really build this structure somehow. If the comparison were to be made, the legal person could also be put exactly in charge of the theft. Perhaps a general responsibility for aiding the crime would suffice? Does a legal person's liability have to be set out in each particular paragraph in this way? How do you feel as a processer, could we still debate it on the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U168	Thank you. That's a very good question. We have talked about this before in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The responsibility of a legal person is, indeed, a very abstract matter. In the case of an economic crime, it is, of course, very simple and clear when it comes to evasion of taxes, etc., although there, too, the crime is still perpetrated by natural persons. I think that the general concept of a legal person in the composition of a criminal offence should be clearly debated during the debate on the most important debate in our Commission's composition, the new version of the Penal Code. Can't count on the answers being given to us by the referees, the judges. We often give our opinion on how to deal with the matter in the Committee on Legal Affairs after it has reached the Supreme Court. This shows that we need to make this very clear to ourselves in order not to cause the opposite situation, where we really feel that a legal person is behind it, say this, a whole set of crimes or organised activities, for example, but we cannot deal with the case in court based on this composition. It's much worse. We must make this very clear to ourselves in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I think we're still dealing with it. I'm sure it's worth listening to the executives. We should ask the prosecutors and lawyers how they see the role of a legal person in crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-09_U169	Thank you. Any more questions? No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 469 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 469 amendments. a on 23 October at 5.15 p.m. Today's agenda is exhausted. Closure of the sitting at 3.19 p.m.
