ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U1	Good fellows, good morning. We will begin the 10th working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U2	First of all, I have a great opportunity and a great honour to invite Tarmo Mänd to the speaker's desk. Due to the suspension of the mandate of Urve Tiidus, member of the Riigikogu, due to his appointment as a member of the Government of the Republic, Tarmo Mänd will become a member of the Riigikogu on 5 December 2013. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Männi, to listen to the oath of office!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U4	Now I ask the members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or requests to the Riigikogu. There's no call. Let's go to the messages. On 5 December 2013, the mandate of Andrei Korobeinik, a member of the Riigikogu, ended on 4 December 2013 in connection with the release of a member of the Rein Lang Government and the restoration of the powers of his member of the Riigikogu. Good fellows, there's another message. Due to § 73 (1) of the Honourable Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the chairman of the session today does not open the discussion of item No 5, i.e. there will be no third reading of the Bill 480 of the Law on the Amendment of the Foundations of the Property Reform of the Republic of Estonia, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, and related amendments to other laws. The reason is that the documents on which the agenda questions are discussed have not been made available to the members of the Riigikogu. We're gonna do a presence check. 77 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 24.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U5	Let us move on to today's agenda items. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act and the Code of Administrative Court Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We can start preparing the final vote. Since the 474 bill requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law, before the final vote we will do a verification of the presence. 78 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 23. I will put draft 474 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 75 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft Act amending the Public Procurement Act and the Code of Administrative Court Procedure, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 474 has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U6	Let's move on to the second item. The third reading of the Act amending the Act on Insurance Activities, the Audit Activities Act and the Investment Funds Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 475 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. With the convincing majority, the draft law amending the Act on Insurance Activities, the Audit Activities Act and the Investment Funds Act has been adopted as 475 law by the Government of the Republic. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U7	Let's move on to the third item. The third reading of the draft law 509 on the amendment of the law on the grant of international protection to an alien initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. We can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put a draft of 509 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 69 members of the Riigikogu), 1 against and 1 abstention. Draft Act 509 on the amendment of the law on the grant of international protection to an alien initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws has been adopted as a law. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U8	Let's move on to item number four. The third reading of the Act amending the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities and other Acts initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 504 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft Act 504 amending the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U9	Let's move on to the next item. The third reading of the draft law amending the State Tax Act and the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Jaan Õunapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U10	Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am before you for the second time on this draft and I can confirm what I said the first time: this draft seeks to improve the revenue from the 2014 state budget. At first reading, the Social Democrats proposed that the draft be rejected, as the 5% increase in fees is not justified in any way. As a general rule, the level of state fees must be established on the basis of the cost principle set out in § 4 (1) of the State Fees Act that the state fee must be based on the costs incurred in carrying out the operation. The 5% increase in the state fee rate is not justified in any way, as according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the cost-based price for registration of a vehicle, including a trailer, is 14 euros and 88 cents.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U11	Good waitress, I'm sorry! There's too much noise in the hall. I ask you to respect the waitress and those who wish to listen to the introduction of this bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U12	The current rate is 121 euros and 43 cents, but it is intended to be increased to 128 euros. Unfortunately, the coalition voted down our proposal. After that, we made 50 amendments, one of which was partially taken into account. This concerns the national registration fee for trailers, which is reduced from EUR 121 to EUR 63. Our proposal, to remind you once again, was to reduce the fee to EUR 25. It should be taken into account that in Finland this operation costs the owner 29, in Norway 5.5, in Sweden 6,3, in Latvia 41 and in Lithuania 34 euros. So it can be said that the lower rate will also be significantly higher than that of our neighbours. I am pleased to congratulate our member of the Group, Kalev Kotkas, who has achieved a small but important victory in his fight to reduce the tax rate on trailers. That's the thing. With the amendments that were not taken into account, we wanted to keep the levels of the fees as they were, even now, significantly higher than the costs incurred. The draft has a strong negative impact on those persons who, for various reasons, have to use the services of the Road Administration's Traffic Register Offices, as the rates of state fees for transactions carried out there are rising considerably. Despite the currently very limited use of e-services in this area, 20% of registrations are expected to be covered by distance services next year. The question arises as to whether the Road Administration is prepared for all this. Social Democrats fully support the development of e-services, but can this not be done in such a way that fees are lower than those in force? Neither do our group members consider it justified to increase the cost of issuing the vehicle registration plate and making the registration data more expensive in the offices of the Road Administration. I will conclude positively: we are pleased that we were able to explain to the coalition, by presenting our consistent drafts, the need to reduce the state fee for trailers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U13	Thank you. There's no more calls. I will close the negotiations and begin the preparation of the final vote on draft 496. I will put draft 496 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 56 members of the Riigikogu with 13 votes against and 3 abstentions. Draft 496 Act on the amendment of the State Fees Act and the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The sixth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U14	Let's move on to the next item. The third reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. So what do we do now? Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 492 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft 492 Act amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. This item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U15	Let's move on to the next item. The first reading of the draft 503 of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu as a member of the Riigikogu Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U16	Thank you. I'm not going to rephrase the content of the explanatory statement, either, but I'm trying to prevent perhaps some of the questions that, I know, have arisen from colleagues. That is what I learned in the debates and also in the committee meeting. The first question was why we call members of the building management company forced members. The answer is very simple. Currently, the Riigikogu has a new draft law on apartment ownership and housing associations. According to this, the management of all apartment property will take the form of an independent legal entity, which is a housing company. Upon the entry into force of the Act, the building management company is formed with the creation of apartment property. Persons holding immovable property within one immovable property will become members of a building management company who do not actually have a choice, i.e. forced members. We call them coercive members because, when the new law comes into force, it is not possible for a person to decide for himself whether or not he or she wishes to be a member of a non-profit association or a housing association. Where did the concept of the panel come from? People have expressed a wide range of views on this name. For example, my colleague, Mr Kabrits, in the Commission, said that the name of the committee of appeal is a cause for debate, but the name could be more peaceful. The terms 'Committee on Disputes', 'Committee on Disputes' and 'Committee on Conciliation' have been proposed in place of the Panel on Disputes. Let me explain why we stick to this particular name. We have a public procurement appeal committee where the parties to the dispute are a state-related company and a private entity. In the case of disputes concerning housing cooperatives, both parties are private parties. In order to ensure legal clarity, there should not be any confusion that could arise if the term 'Committee on Disputes' were to apply to disputes where both parties are private parties. However, if the name of the organisation created on the basis of the draft is compared to that of the Labour Dispute Committee, it must be said that the Labour Dispute Committee is discussing, among other things, financial claims. The purpose of our draft is not to include disputes about financial claims at the moment. Whether and in what form this would be possible should be decided again by the Government of the Republic. There was also talk in the Commission about the Conciliation Committee and the conciliation procedure, I believe the Commission's rapporteur will talk about this. The purpose of our draft was not to set up a conciliation committee, for the simple reason that the hallmark of conciliation is that a third party mediating or conciliating parties does not have the authority to make any decision that does not satisfy the will of the parties, that is, the result only happens when the parties reach an agreement. However, practice has shown that disputes arise when people cannot reach an agreement between themselves. We are of the opinion that it is not reasonable to spend money if a body can only be set up with the consent of both parties to receive assistance. We need a functioning, impartial and decision-making body. Against this background, we believe that a new concept must be introduced, for which we have proposed an appeal committee. The Board of Appeal would become a body dealing with requests to challenge the decisions of the housing associations and other disputes concerning the management of the building management company as a body. How should this committee be set up, and why did this draft come about in the first place? The Court of Human Rights has explained that the pre-trial body does not have to be part of the national judicial system, but it has to meet certain characteristics, including its independence and impartiality, its constitution and separation from the executive power, its legal authority, and its procedural procedures must ensure that a particular case is properly dealt with. Unfortunately, there is currently no possibility in Estonia to set up an appeal committee to resolve disputes between housing associations. That's why we're presenting this bill. Is this committee needed? First of all, my own deep conviction is that it is necessary. We've been working with housing companies for quite a long time for over a year. Feedback is very supportive; everyone is more or less in agreement that this Commission is very much needed. Secondly, there is also a numerical argument. In 2012, Estonia had some 21400 properties and some 477000 apartments. The approximate number of housing cooperatives is currently 9500, which will increase once the new law enters into force. According to the new Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act, forced membership arises, as I have already told you. These people, however, do not have the legal expertise to make decisions. To this I would like to bring another argument, which once again sounded at the Commission's meeting, which was presented by the opponents of the draft. It is clear that in houses where there is domestic peace, the housing company has long been formed, but it is these most problematic houses, where there is no housing association, that will be formed by a new law when it enters into force. So we can expect new problems and conflicts. An example is the change in the agenda of the general meeting when new issues were discussed at the meeting and one minute was given to raise objections. It is clear that within one minute it will not be possible to shape its position on a complex legal issue. In the event of disagreement with a one-minute deadline, the member of the building management company must apply to the court to declare this requirement incompatible with good practice or any other legal provision. However, recourse to justice is a long and expensive process. Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur has said that it is indisputable that the functioning of the building management company requires that all members of the cooperative make reasonable contacts and make decisions. At the same time, the Minister has confirmed that there are, in practice, many disputes concerning housing associations. That's what we know. How would this committee work? The idea is that it should be possible to make a free-form statement, which should highlight the circumstances which have meaning in the dispute. It is necessary to describe the difference between the parties, i.e. what a member of the building management company or the building management company has failed to do or has done unlawfully. The appeal committee would also become a helping body for the management of the building management company, because there are different people and there are those who are looking for trouble. It would be good if a neutral party would explain to a person his rights and obligations and be an arbitrator. This would significantly reduce the number of disputes and ease the workload of judges. At the meeting with the Central Party of the Riigikogu, Priit Pikamäe, the head of the Supreme Court, was also of the opinion that the idea of creating an appeal committee for housing cooperatives is good and should be considered. I therefore ask for this bill to be supported. I'm ready to answer questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U17	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will present to you a draft decision entitled 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic'. With this draft, we want to oblige the Government of the Republic to develop by 1 June next year the legal basis of the appeal committee for the out-of-court settlement of disputes between housing associations with a view to dealing with disputes arising in housing associations more easily and quickly than can be done at present. I'm not going to talk any further about the substance of the bill...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U18	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's a lot of noise in the hall, coming from every corner. I ask you to honor the waitress and those who wish to hear the presentation! Sorry, waitress! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U19	Thank you. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U20	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! It's a new model or system. If you compare this new Commission with the Labour Dispute Committee, can you tell me how much this Commission needs resources, how much it costs and what is the source of these resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U21	Thank you! When we discussed this draft in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we also talked about the Labour Dispute Committee. The Commission had an interesting argument that the Labour Dispute Committee would no longer be what it had previously been, that any other decision would be challenged in court. We checked it out, it's not true. Decisions are challenged, but this percentage is relatively low. I have the figures on the matters discussed in the Labour Dispute Committee. There were around 4000 in 2008, around 6000 in 2009, 4000 in 2010, 3000 in 2011 and 3000 in 2012. The maintenance of this committee cost EUR 150000 each year, EUR 148000, and EUR 171000, depending on the number of disputes. I don't think we should be predicting such a large number of disputes between housing associations, but this is about that amount, EUR 150,000, EUR 170000 per year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U22	Margus Hanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! In your report, you said that the new body should rather assist the management of the housing company. But there are often situations where the members of the building management company cannot handle the management and it is they who, as the weaker party, need support. Would this possible organ help?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U24	I believe that this committee should help both sides of the conflict, both weaker and stronger. I understand that you meant with your question, perhaps I misunderstood, of course, that there are people who are really looking for trouble. I've experienced it myself, discussing the bill with the presidents of the housing associations. Some of them said that now Pandora's box will be opened and everyone will be looking for a fight, and now these trouble-seekers will not be able to pay the state fee, they will not be competent enough and they will not go to court, but if this option is now created, it will make life more difficult for the housing associations. On the one hand, it is humanly understandable, but on the other hand, it is not normal for us to knowingly give people the opportunity to defend their rights in this Chamber. I believe that this committee would help both parties. We know very well that there have been situations where the housing company has taken out loans, but some people have not been happy with it, but have gone to court. The trial lasts a year, two or three, the person is present in the media at that time and writes articles. In short, this is an unhealthy situation. I believe that if we make this argument clearer and easier, everyone will win.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U25	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Siim Kabritsa, Member of the Legal Committee of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft 503 of the "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" at its 18 November session. In addition to the members of the committee, Yana Toom, member of the Riigikogu, and Vaike Murumets, adviser to the private law department of the Ministry of Justice, and Madis Timpson, adviser to the Minister of Justice, were invited to the meeting. This is a draft initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group. This was presented to the Commission by Yana Toom. He presented the objectives and content of the draft and answered the questions raised at the meeting of the Commission. As an expert, representatives of the Ministry of Justice answered questions from members of the Commission. The purpose of the draft is for the Riigikogu to propose to the Government of the Republic to develop by 1 June 2014 the legal basis for the appeal committee to resolve disputes between housing associations in an out-of-court procedure, with a view to dealing with disputes arising in housing associations more easily and quickly. Members of the Commission admitted that this was a topical problem. As Yana Toom mentioned in her report, questions were raised by the title 'Commission of Thought', which may not be the best. However, the question is how to better tackle the problems that arise in this area. If there is a well-established conciliation procedure elsewhere in the world, perhaps we could think about it too. After all, in 2010 the Conciliation Act came into force in Estonia. The Ministry of Justice was invited by the Commission to consider whether, in 2017, if the new Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act were to apply in its entirety, more resources could be devoted to the training of housing cooperative people in order to prevent potential disputes and to increase legal clarity. Four laws currently regulate this area. The purpose of the new Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act is also to create more legal clarity so that this area is governed by a law. The committee president put to the vote a proposal not to support the adoption of the draft decision as 503 decisions. The final vote had 5 votes in favour, 2 against and 1 abstention. The Commission decided to make proposals to place the draft on the plenary agenda at its meeting on 5 December and to put it to a final vote. Siim Kabrits was appointed rapporteur. These three decisions were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U27	Good waitress, you have questions. Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U28	Thank you. Good colleague! I understand that this committee will not come because a decision has been taken to reject the draft. But you were talking about conciliators. Does this mean that the coalition believes that conciliators working in the housing cooperative zone may soon arrive?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U29	Thank you for your question. The question is rather broader. Already the word 'Commission' makes people want to argue. If the appeal committee makes a final decision, then there is a fear of going to court and not achieving final satisfaction. The question is, rather, how to better regulate the area of housing associations so that there are less disputes. Problems should be clarified and information should be provided to people through the law on how to solve everyday problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U30	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I ask you for arguments on this conciliation. I talked about it in my report, and Valeri asked about the same thing. Reconciliation means that both parties agree to the conciliation process. What is your suggestion: how should the number of conflicts be reduced if the parties disagree? If they agreed, there wouldn't be a conflict.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U32	The conciliation procedure always requires the agreement of the two parties. In other parts of the world, the first prerequisite for reconciliation is the agreement of both parties. This is necessary in order to address the Conciliation Committee and to open a conciliation procedure. If we look around the world, we can see that there are not lawyers in this committee, but psychologists who find consensus between the parties. That is how this conciliation procedure is conducted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U33	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U34	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Yana didn't ask what the conciliation was. He asked what would happen if there were no conciliation, which would be the other option. But my question is whether this panel that we have proposed to resolve the problems encountered in housing associations would reduce or increase the burden on Estonian courts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U35	Thank you for your question. It's hard to say. At the moment, there is also a possibility that, if there is a challenge, you can go to court. With the entry into force of the new law, there will be more than 10,000 housing associations. It is difficult to predict whether and how many more will arise. I think that the legislator should provide for a sufficient amount of training and advisory funding to explain in advance how these problems can be solved when this draft law enters into force. I think the biggest problem right now is the lack of information. The presidents of the housing associations do this work on a voluntary basis. It will take time for our owner's society to develop. Every year, the owners' society grows stronger, but it all takes time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U36	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U37	Thank you! I may have formulated my question somewhat incomprehensible. I'll try again. What gives you, a good colleague, optimism to think that the conciliation procedure in the area of housing associations will suddenly work, in a situation where it has not actually worked in Estonia for the simple reason that the Estonian person is such that he does not want to settle with anyone for several years? When I sometimes discuss drafts with the representatives of the coalition, I start to think that we also need some sort of conciliation body to help exterminate the point of the drafts, because sometimes we just talk about each other. What gives you the optimism to think that conciliation can become popular among housing associations if they are not popular in other areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U38	Thank you, my good colleague Yana. If people do not agree with the decision of the appeal committee, they will sue that decision. It's always up to the people. If I don't agree with anything, I'm gonna go to the court, I'm gonna keep arguing, and the court is gonna set things right.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U39	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U40	Thank you, good vice chairman. Dear waitress, In my opinion, the clear analogy we have proposed by the Commission in the form of the Labour Dispute Committee. After the Labour Dispute Committee was called into force, did the burden on Estonian courts increase or decrease?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U41	Thank you for your question. Mr Toom pointed out here how many of these disputes had occurred in the Committee on Labour Disputes. Unfortunately, he did not provide any statistics on the number of referrals to the courts after the decision of the Labour Dispute Committee. I don't have the statistics.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U42	Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U43	I wanted to ask the performer how he envisages a conciliation meeting when the owner of the apartment has been invited, who, for example, has paid an apartment rent of 11000 euros. What's there to reconcile?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U44	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U45	Thank you for a good question. Conciliation is one option. The Commission meeting simply stated that such opportunities exist and are used elsewhere in the world. How to deal with a rental debt is certainly a more difficult issue. If the owner of the dwelling already owes 11000 euros, it is a very large amount of money that has been generated over a very long period of time. It's a big problem that can't be solved so easily.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Let me give you an example. There are four associations of housing associations in Narva and the council also has a committee, a committee of housing associations and gardening associations. Most of these connections are represented there. If there is an important issue in the debate, they are expected to be invited to the meeting of the Commission and also of the Council. Which housing association organisations were represented on the Commission when you discussed these matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U47	Thank you for that question. No organisations representing housing associations were involved in the discussion of this draft decision, but they will be involved on Monday when we have a discussion on the draft law on apartment ownership and housing associations. They will be the subject of an active discussion in the preparation of this draft law. The Ministry of Justice has also been actively asked for their opinion. So they're involved in the drafting of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U48	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U49	Thank you. Yeah, but right now we're discussing draft decision 503. I therefore ask the following question. To which associations of housing associations has the Commission addressed their opinion on this draft decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U50	Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U51	Thank you. There has certainly been a wider question of this issue from the Association of Housing Cooperatives, but specifically on this draft decision, I think, there has probably not been an opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U52	Thank you. I want to hear what the Commission came up with then. At present, a large number of housing associations are formed by order across Estonia, as this law has already been passed. Actually, I think there's still a procedure for this bill, the law hasn't been passed. But in the near future this thing, by order of formation of cooperatives, comes and then arises disputes, I think, very, very much. Should there be some kind of organ to solve them? What decision did the Commission take if our proposal does not fit?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U53	Thank you for your question. The Legal Affairs Committee will discuss the draft Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act next week. There have been a great many amendments to the second reading. Which Commission supports, which ones do not, this will become clear during the debate. It is certainly not a very simple debate, as this issue concerns many people personally. There are nearly one million people in Estonia affected by this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U54	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U55	Thank you. Honourable waitress! This is the opposition bill. I understand that there will be a number of non-profit representatives coming from your committee next week. But why were the people of the associations concerned not invited to discuss this draft decision? In fact, it would have been very important to listen to their opinions in order to find out whether or not they were interested in the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U56	Thank you for your question. I do not think it matters whether it is a draft of the opposition or coalition. Everyone will certainly be involved in the debate next week: the Association of Housing Cooperatives and representatives of the opposition and coalition. The draft Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act has been proposed by representatives of the coalition, for example Liisa Pakosta, as well as others. I do not think it matters whether it is a draft of the opposition or a coalition. The subject is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U57	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U58	I still come back to my question. Next week, a different bill will be discussed, but I will be talking about this draft decision. Why were these people not invited to this debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U59	Thank you. This area must be looked at as a whole. If we regulate something, in order for regulation to work, we need to look at the subject more broadly. I think that the proposal that Yana Toom made is certainly very welcome, because the problem is topical and important in Estonian society. A solution must be found here, so that there is less dispute.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U60	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U61	Mr. President! Honourable waitress! I have a very simple question. You are saying that this area is important and that this problem needs to be resolved either way. But why can't this bill be viewed with the bill to be discussed next week to look at the wider area, as you said?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U62	Thank you for your question. People's ambassadors always have the opportunity to propose amendments to the draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-05_U63	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The lead committee proposes that the final vote on draft 503 should be taken at first reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, the draft decision 503 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a decision. Before the final vote, we will do a presence check. 46 members of the Riigikogu registered as present and 55 are missing. I will put draft 503 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. with 27 members of the Riigikogu against 3 and 1 abstention. The draft did not find any support and would fall out of the procedure. The item is closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 10.49 a.m.
