ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U1	Good fellows, good morning. Allow me to wish everyone a beautiful European day. We will start the 13th working week Thursday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U2	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, on the European day, when we talk more about European values than we usually do, I have the honour of transferring the draft law amending the Act on Gender Equality on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Nine years ago, the Act on Gender Equality entered into force. One section of this section obliges the government to approve the composition of the Gender Equality Council. But what doesn't exist isn't. A year and a half ago, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder sent a letter of formal notice to the Minister of Social Affairs stating that Article 24 of the Gender Equality Act provides for the obligation to set up a Council. Failure to comply with the obligation is non-compliance with the law. In his reply to the Chancellor of Justice, the Minister of Social Affairs agreed that the existence of a permanent council would ensure the permanent cooperation of people with the necessary knowledge and skills to meet the objectives of the Gender Equality Act. The Minister of Social Affairs promised that the arrangements for setting up this council would be submitted to the Government of the Republic for approval by the end of the second quarter of 2012. What isn't there isn't! The ignorance of the government forces the Riigikogu, so we all need to exercise more effective parliamentary supervision over the implementation of the Gender Equality Act. The draft therefore aims to establish a special committee on gender equality in the Riigikogu instead of the Gender Equality Council. We are convinced that the Special Committee on Gender Equality in the Riigikogu strengthens and deepens democracy and hopefully helps to overcome the disparate gender inequality of Sosnovsky in society. The Social Democrats believe that Parliament wants and can improve the situation of women in our country. Happy Europe Day for all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U3	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Aadu Musta, please! Dear colleagues, I ask you to keep it down in the hall so that we treat those who wish to listen and those who wish to speak equally to the rest of the hall. You can talk outside the Chamber. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Ernest Hemingway once said that there was an Estonian waiting for his ship in every port in the world where he ended up. Later, our previous President of the Academy of Sciences, Jüri Engelbrecht, has paraphrased it and said that there is an Estonian professor at every university in the world that he has visited. Maybe he just hasn't visited any other university, who knows. If there is an Estonian in a remote area, be it a sailor, a professor or a strawberry picker, it is in a sense exotic. If there's a lot of them out there, that's a big problem. As a result of this same reasoning, we have a question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia about how the government feels about the current reality. Does he think it's an exotic, everyday, or big problem? We have a number of constructive questions that are not in the kind of fairy tale I've just been doing. We seriously inherit the impact of emigration on the Estonian economy, the state of statistics, the recruitment policy of other countries and possible political measures of the Republic of Estonia to influence this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U5	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U6	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry from the members of the Central Party to the Social Minister Taavi Rõivas. It's about taking care of your loved ones. I am not going to remind you here of the debate that recently broke out in the media because of the care of the people who are characteristic of Andrei Hvostov's striking article. I am simply reminding you that it is possible, as a matter of principle, to place a carer in a temporary welfare institution during a holiday or carer's illness. It is difficult, however, to put your loved one in a care facility, as the average fee for the place is 600 euros, which is higher than the pension for the person in need of care. In addition to the large place fee, you have to wait in line to get this place. Caring for relatives requires inhuman effort from loved ones, but the money it receives is nonexistent. In addition, when a person formalises himself or herself as a carer, quits his or her work and devotes his or her life to caring for a loved one, his or her future pension suffers because no one pays social security contributions for the carer, which means that he or she does not receive a retirement pension. In this regard, we have five questions for the Minister, which we hope will be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U7	No more surrender requests. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and two inquiries, according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas and the Minister of Culture Rein Lang. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing. Let's go to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U8	Today the agenda of the Committee on Economic Affairs includes the first reading of draft 420 of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be asked by Kaja Kallas, Chairman of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U9	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We have on the table a draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U10	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! There's a lot of noise in the hall. Keep it down, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U11	Thank you. § 10 (3) of the Estonian Development Fund Act states that the Riigikogu, on the proposal of the Economic Commission, appoints five members of the Supervisory Board for up to four years. Two of them are members of the Riigikogu and three are representatives of entrepreneurship and the general public. In view of the fact that the deadline for the membership of the board of one of the representatives of entrepreneurship and the public is coming to an end, we addressed the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Chamber of Service Economy and the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises with a proposal to submit candidates. Three candidates were nominated: Jaan Puusaag, Ville Jehe and Andres Arrak. On 9 April, the Committee on Economic Affairs met with all the candidates and then a vote was held in which Ville Yehe was elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U12	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U13	Honourable waitress! Do you think that this decision could be left to the Economic Commission in the future, or should it still be discussed before the House?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U14	To that end, the law should be amended. The Development Fund is, in itself, the "think Chamber" of the Riigikogu and, since both the opposition and the coalition are represented in the Economic Commission, why not allow this decision to be made by the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U15	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U16	Is it also possible to disclose how many votes the candidates received in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U17	It's possible. I'll find that paper. Jaan Puusaag received two votes, Ville Yehe had six votes, and Andres Arrak received one vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U18	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U19	Good waitress! Please introduce to the hall with whom you are dealing! What is the background of the person chosen by the Committee on Economic Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U20	Ville Jehe's candidacy was presented by the Service Economy Chamber. It has been active in the business sector for a long time and has been linked to the Development Fund by being an angel investor and helping start-ups to get their projects started. He has also participated in the Investment Committee of the Development Fund, or what is the correct name, I do not know exactly. In any case, it is the body that discusses which enterprises receive support from the Development Fund. It's a young awakening person.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U21	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U22	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Would you recall who are members of the Supervisory Board of the rest of the Estonian Development Fund? Does the Economic Commission intend to make any exchanges?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U23	Unfortunately, I have no paper ahead of me, but from memory, the other members of the Board of the Development Fund are Jaan Männik, Juhan Parts, Jürgen Ligi, the representative of entrepreneurship Mart Einasto, Andres Keevallik, and now the new rector of the University of Tartu will replace Alar Karis. The members are me, Kaja Kallas, and Mart Laar.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U24	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U25	I was gonna ask you about Lar, but I already figured it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U26	We now have a round of questions, the lines must remain in the negotiating round. Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U27	Has the principle of gender equality also been taken into account when determining the members of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U28	Yeah, it's accounted for. If there are two equal candidates, the second of the second sex, we will certainly take this into account. Unfortunately, only one-sex candidates were presented this time, so we were unable to choose a woman.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U29	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U30	Dear waitress, At the beginning of your speech, you mentioned that the Committee on Economic Affairs addressed various non-profit organisations and business associations. Could this list be longer and wider? I am thinking, for example, of agriculture and rural entrepreneurship in general. The Chamber of Commerce is an institution that could have been involved in this amplification. Or isn't it important?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U31	It is, of course, always a question of who is directly asked. This time we decided that we would ask for an opinion from umbrella organisations such as the Confederation of Employers and the Chamber of Commerce, which still represent all sectors. And given the specifics of the Development Fund, perhaps agriculture has not really been its main areas of interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-09_U32	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. No negotiations will be opened. The position of the lead committee is also to hold a final vote at first reading of draft 420. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 420 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 77 members of the Riigikogu, 1 against and 1 abstention. Draft 420 of the Decision of the Economic Commission of the Riigikogu "Announcement of a Member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund" has been adopted as a decision. Today's only item is closed. Good fellows, that concludes our hearing today. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.16 a.m.
