ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the first working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. No drafts or requests for information are recommended. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. The following members of government will attend Question Time on 11 September: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 90 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 11.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, We are going to address today's agenda items. The first item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group. May I have your attention for a moment so that I can introduce you to the procedure for handling this point. The procedure for dealing with a draft decision containing a proposal to the Government of the Republic shall be as follows: We've got two waitresses. They both have up to 20 minutes. The following questions. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs. This will be followed by negotiations involving speakers from the political groups. The amendments will then be examined and put to the final vote. Before the final vote on the draft, there will be a presence check. We will address the first item on the agenda. The rapporteur is Eiki Nestor, a member of the Social Democratic Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll go straight to the point without further ado. The Social Democratic Party Group has proposed to the Riigikogu to exercise the right given to us to take a decision to propose to the Government of the Republic. The current proposal is as follows: the Government of the Republic should amend the "Estonian Maintenance Network Development Plan 2004-2015" with a view to creating a single care organisation based on the real needs of those in need. The development of this development plan was started during one government, this work continued during the next government and this development plan was already adopted during the third government. There is no specific feature here in itself, and this could also happen with a number of other development plans. But the fate of this development plan is sad in the sense that, when it is stated in the introductory section, the separation of the Estonian health and care system has created a situation where it is difficult for residents to use services intended to meet their needs due to their health or social situation, it remains a mere fact mentioned in this development plan. The development plan itself contains a number of topics that have probably been dealt with as far as the country can afford over the years, such as the increase in the number of care treatment places, which have been boosted with the support of the European Union in recent years, or the development of home care. In short, many of the activities needed to make care treatments more accessible to patients are included in this development plan, but unfortunately no systemic approach can be reached. This shortcoming, which the development plan itself was designed to address, will not be eliminated and we still do not have a single welfare system. So what's the whole thing about accident? You see, it is important for a citizen and a person in need of care to know what his rights and obligations are. However, our current system requires something entirely different. In particular, at the moment, when financing care, in summary, there is a clear distinction that one person is being treated and the other person is being cared for. When it comes to medical treatment, we cover the costs of health insurance through the sickness fund. However, in the case of maintenance, these costs are covered by the local authority under conditions such as those decided by the municipality. There have also been cases where the municipality has decided that, in certain cases, it will not cover the maintenance costs at all, the children in need of care will do so, or it will do so from its own pocket. Ultimately, we have put all this integrated and necessary service into two parts: here we treat and here we maintain. That is why it is clear from the introduction to this development plan that if a person is of a certain age and his health has deteriorated, it is not possible to distinguish in real life that we are now treating, but now we are caring. The last time we made a reasonable decision here was this spring, allowing nurses with medical education to be recruited only in institutions that are purely for care. All of this, in the end, is not enough. Such a different approach creates a situation where there are three people in the same service facility, all of whom have basically the same health status, but one is paid by the health insurance fund, the other is paid by the municipality and the third is paid by its children. People's ambassadors should be made to think of the fact that we have people who do not have good contact with their family doctor, whose municipality of residence has decided to fund less care or there has not been a chance to do so at all and who have no children. What about these people? How do they get this service? Our proposal to revise this plan means that a single system will be created. Recently, when these issues have been in public, there has been a great deal of talk about insurance. Care insurance is also one option. But you don't have to be a care insurance, it can be arranged in a different way, without applying the insurance principle. It is important that a person in this country knows whether he or she has children or how well his or her children serve, or what the decision of his or her municipality is that he or she has a clear opportunity to receive the service he or she really needs. I repeat, at a certain age, everyone, you too, ladies and gentlemen, may need care if both treatment and care are needed at the same time. In practice, this means that the Government of the Republic should invite both the Health Insurance Fund and the local authorities, who are currently offering treatment and care to people, to a single table during the processing of this programme. At this table, common positions should be reached on how it is best to organise, fund and make the service available in the future. Knowing that this may not be so easy, because a number of other issues may arise during the debate, we have not given any time limit in the draft decision that could set some time limit for the creation of this single service that the government cannot handle. I admit that the task of agreeing on a method of pooling different sources of funding can be difficult, until we have to take the form of insurance, for example. Nevertheless, I think it is a job that needs to be done in Estonia. If we do not create a unified system, it will be very difficult to solve all the problems that have been discussed in the Riigikogu and which relate, for example, to informal care. We will probably continue to read sad news in the future, as they have already done, and will continue to ask questions. It is good that we have increased the number of care facilities with European Union money. But why aren't all these care facilities filling up? The answer is that there is no system and no clear funding. If we are already creating these opportunities, we need to make this service available to people. That is, in short, everything. I hope that all the political groups in the Riigikogu will be ready to take this decision, so that one of the services that people need will also be made available to them. However, reaching this result requires that we abandon the current view that there is a clear distinction between treatment and care. Then it's possible to move on. The best way to do this is to change this development plan. It does not need to change any sections in one law or another, but this development plan itself and cooperation between the Government of the Republic, local authorities and the Health Insurance Fund must lead us to this result. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U4	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U5	Dear waitress, This development plan, which we want to change, has been in place for eight years. Now we're going to say it's kind of screwed up, and we want to fix it for the last year. There are probably dozens, if not hundreds, of such development plans in different areas of Estonia. As far as you know, is there any procedure or norm for reporting on the implementation of these development plans to either the Government of the Republic or the Riigikogu? If it does not exist, should it not exist so that such development plans can be made more meaningful?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U6	The procedure for drawing up and reporting on the implementation of development plans is laid down in the basic state budget law. We know, and it is also known in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the Government of the Republic is developing a new basic law. The current regime requires, in particular, a decision that a development plan is needed. The law states where one or the other development plan should be approved. For example, some development plans are confirmed in the Riigikogu, while others are confirmed in the Government of the Republic. The most important thing is that a decision must be made that a development plan needs to be made. There is one drawback in the current case. This is not only a problem with this development plan, but also concerns all development plans. The drawback is that there is no substantive obligation on the development plan's authors to modify and develop it for a period of time. But life goes on. By the way, there is no obligation to draw up the next development plan after the expiry of the period covered by the development plan. The development plan for the hospital network is part of the same area, which needs to be updated as life has moved on and opportunities have changed. Once, a development plan was established, but it has probably already lived its time and would need a new one, but it needs a separate decision again. The second minus of the development plans, in my opinion at least, is that, when they are all adopted, one remark is added. This comment reads as follows: the development plan is financed on an ongoing basis, according to the state budget. This means, in fact, that the figures that are written there about funding become only a wish, often they do not become a reality. If this request is not met in 2005, 2008, 2010 or 2012, there is no obligation to change the development plan. I think it is appropriate to wait for the Government of the Republic to provide for the basic law of the state budget in the Riigikogu, which still has work to do until March 2015, and to remove the bottlenecks that exist in the preparation of development plans and, in particular, in reporting on them. If the Government of the Republic does not reach an agreement on the new basic law of the state budget, it would be reasonable for this Riigikogu to reconsider the subject of development plans. At present, this procedure is largely based on a short section of the basic law of the state budget and on a decree issued on the basis of it by the Government of the Republic. I think that this part of the law could be much more specific and better in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U7	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U8	Thank you. Good waitress! After all, your presentation made the point that there is currently no coordination and a common policy in this area, and that is why there are unmet care facilities. Do you have any information on how many of the beautiful care facilities that have already been in place and which have now been created have not been filled up?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U9	No, I don't have any fresh information on that. However, the fact that there are very often different donors in all these care treatment facilities makes the availability of this service so that we do not have to be satisfied with it. I would like to remind you once again, my good colleague, that it may also be that the person who needs the service may not even receive the family doctor service. The possibilities of the municipality may be limited and children in need in the same way. These people who need help are, in my opinion, the biggest losers due to the current lack of system. Certainly, a single and clear regime, with defined rights and obligations, would make this more clear and also make the service more accessible. I think we have examples from the last ten years of how clear order has made it fair and understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U10	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U11	Thank you, Madam President. Good Eiki! You're the grand old man of health care and welfare. You know, and you remember everything that's been, you have encyclopedic knowledge, you remember the things that none of us remembers because you've been there. When the maintenance network development plan started, it was in 1998 or 1999, financing opportunities were also discussed. There were three possible schemes: a care fund, a care tax or a care insurance policy. I'm sure you remember what year that was. Why have you now chosen, specifically, care insurance, which I believe was discussed in 2000 from these three options?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U12	This development plan really began to be developed in 2000. Later, Minister Siiri Oviir worked on it and it was adopted when the minister was Marko Pomerants. Thanks to all of them for working on this development plan! At the time we started working on it, for example, I, one of the initiators of this development plan, was in the process of calling a round table where representatives of the municipalities and the health insurance fund would participate to find the most appropriate legal form for providing this service. You all have your own experience under the leadership of the state, you know that it may not always be easy to get the Government of the Republic, the Health Insurance Fund and local authorities to think and understand things the same way. What happened next in the search for this unified system or solution, I honestly do not know. However, I saw from the development plan that it had been adopted that the main problem had not been solved. Whether this task was considered too difficult or the attempt was made to create a unified system, but it didn't work out, I don't know what to say. Once again, insurance is not a preference for the initiators of this draft either. This can be done in one way or another, but this legal form must be found in cooperation between the municipalities, the health insurance fund and the Government of the Republic. They should tell us what the most sensible thing is. I imagine that municipalities could be willing to take part in the management of this system and be responsible, but also to make a number of legal decisions. This solution does not have to be insurance. That is why we also mention in the explanatory memorandum to the draft decision that one option is insurance, but it does not necessarily have to be insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U13	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. I would like to ask Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee for the next chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U14	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, to propose to the Government of the Republic at the meeting of the committee on 17 June 2013. The draft was presented to the Commission by Helmen Kütt, a member of the Social Democratic Party Group and member of the Social Committee. As this also applies to the government, we invited representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs: Head of the Welfare Department, Uku Torahla, Head of the Health Department, Heli Paluste. No amendments to the draft decision were tabled. What, then, were the positions and topics discussed in the Commission? According to the representatives of the Ministry, the Ministry has not planned to change the maintenance network development plan or to undertake a new development plan, as all health strategies and development plans are integrated under the roof of the population health plan and all activities can be planned in the population health plan. The Ministry has also developed a development plan for active ageing for the years 2013 to 20122020, which has been approved. The representative of the Ministry also gave an overview of the steps taken to complete the maintenance network development plan during the period of validity of the plan. As the previous speaker Eiki Nestor said, steps have been taken to increase the number of care treatment facilities, investments have been made in existing care treatment facilities, steps have been taken to establish home nursing services, and there is now a nurse in care facilities and nursing services that have not been carried out so far. Various questions were asked. Helmen Kütt asked whether the maintenance network development plan prepared in 2003 had met its objectives. The representative of the Ministry replied that the key objectives of improving infrastructure and service availability were more or less met at the pace envisaged. However, the financing scheme described in the development plan has not been implemented as such. As has been said here, the services are financed from three sources: the Health Insurance Fund, the person himself and the local government. Commissioner Heljo Pikhof pointed out that all this was about older people, but there are also young people who need treatment and care. The representative of the Ministry replied that the target group of the Active Ageing Development Plan was indeed 50+, but the Action Plan for this development plan for 2013/2014 envisaged support for informal care and is intended for all age groups. That was the debate in the Commission. The Commission decided to send the draft to the plenary room today, 10 September, and to put it to a final vote. The Commission also decided to support this proposal for a decision. All these decisions were consensual. Let me just say a few more words on this subject. I have now given an overview of what took place in this particular committee meeting, but the Social Affairs Committee has discussed care, care and rehabilitation systems in quite a number of meetings of the Social Affairs Committee. As Chairman of the Commission, I thank the initiators of this draft decision that this issue has been raised. Indeed, it has to be recognised that there are different aspects to this issue, one concerning care care and the other about care. It is very often difficult to draw a line between which institution and which service a particular person must receive, especially if he or she needs care at the same time in addition to care. The other half of the problem is funding. The sickness fund is partly funded here, partly by the municipality and also by the person himself has a very high funding obligation. The availability of services may not be sufficient due to the system's shortcomings, but also, in fact, due to the poor material capacities of people. We must work very hard, involving all parties, to resolve this problem, particularly in the interests of those in need. A person does not need to understand exactly what role someone has, what is the function of the sickness fund and what is the task of the municipality. In the social field, we have very often heard of confrontations, that certain tasks are the responsibility of the state and certain tasks are the responsibility of the municipality. But there are not many people living in Estonia; we should approach all of them personally. The task of the state and the local authorities is to develop a comprehensive system based primarily on the interests of each in need and the concerns of these people. The topic of informal care, which is related to care treatment, has also been discussed repeatedly in this Chamber over the last two or three years. I am very pleased that we are not talking about this as a hidden and perhaps pathetic subject, but as an issue that actually affects a very, very large number of people. Let's see what the country's up to. The following employment measures of the European Union Structural Funds also focus very much on the topic of informal care, and just through this prism, to help these people as much as possible and to develop measures to this end. It is very important that we cooperate with civil society organisations in this area, but also with the municipalities, the sickness fund and the unemployment fund, which will be directly affected by this planned reform. We're in a kind of unique situation. The state and local authorities must be able to resolve organisational issues, while in certain areas we can also use the European Union's Structural Funds money to carry out the reform. The amount of this amount, which is set at over EUR 400 million in 2014‐2020. Of course, we cannot only make these changes based on this money, but every fundamental change requires more investment at a certain point and the government has planned funds for this. What am I saying? This specific draft is, in some ways, a way of going through an open door, offering a formal solution so that we can re-open the development plan, which will expire in 2015. I don't think that's gonna make any difference. However, I would like to thank the initiators once again for bringing this issue to the debate in this Chamber. This issue certainly needs to be discussed and all parties involved. I think that in the next six months or years, we will have the opportunity to make very serious decisions on care treatment and care in general. Let's just say that not just social policy solutions are enough, but we need to start discussing at some point the issue of administrative reform, the capacity of local governments, what tasks they have and what their income base really is. But I am pleased to see that this issue, which was stuck behind the stump, has started to move in some way, at least it is understood that some changes are needed. But I do not want to open up the issue of administrative reform here, because we can talk about it very, very long. I'm sure we can talk about this in this hall for weeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U15	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. We're opening negotiations. Please, Viktor Vassilyev as representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U16	Madam President, can I have eight minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U17	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U18	Thank you. When I heard correctly, the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee almost at the end of his speech said that he did not believe that this decision would change anything significantly. That's what he said! You know, when you come back to Mr Nestor's speech, it must be said that he said the right thing: the health and social bloc are working apart, and that is the problem. In fact, health and social work have been working separately since the advisory period. It's like the Berlin Wall, which is broken down, but who's been to Berlin, knows that East and West Berlin are completely different worlds where different people live who don't understand each other. Look, when the maintenance network development plan started, there was a reason. The health network was quite expensive as such, the buildings had debts on them, and the state decided that it should somehow tighten up the network and change the funding. That's when they figured out we'd pull up a hospital network, shut down most of the sick houses. The Swedes were ordered 'Estonian Hospital Master Plan'. You may remember this, there was a lot of talk about it. The Swedes said that such a system would not work; it might be suitable for America, not for Estonia. The Swedes were told to put their mouths down, pay their money, and make a plan like the one they ordered. They did, didn't they? They weren't proud of it, but this job was ordered and done. When active care hospitals turned out to be reduced and the average time spent in the active care hospital was reduced to five days, it turned out that something else had to be built next to them, something for chronically ill and elderly people. That was when the idea of building a care network, which was essentially designed as a geriatric assistance system, where social care and health care services would be mixed together. In fact, it is not the case that one elderly person needs only health care and the other only care. No, most of them need both, 60% healthcare and 40% care or vice versa. This was why the funding sources had to be mixed, because health care is financed by the Health Insurance Fund, and social welfare is again financed by the local government. In 2000, three possible funding schemes were discussed very thoroughly: the care fund, the care tax and the care insurance. It didn't get any further because it didn't figure out who was funding what. The development plan for the care network had completed its task by the time it became clear how large the active care network would be and how large the care network would have to grow by 2015. After that, interest in care care began to fade, all the more so as the perspective was to see that this thing would become very and very expensive. There are more and more older people, they live very unpatrioticly longer and longer, they are long sick, they need treatment and care, and it all costs money. By the way, the greater the shortage of money in care and care services for the elderly, the more talk about informal care is for some reason. Well, I guess that's it. They're still throwing these tasks at someone else. You could also talk about informal services in health care. I mean, every person should at least do it by pulling their rotten teeth out with their own blacksmiths. So this informal care is definitely a small part of the whole social welfare block, but it's not the whole thing that's being saved, as it's now being seen. When talking about mixing different cash flows, another problem was seen. Health services are funded by the Health Insurance Fund. The cash flows of the Health Insurance Fund are generally planned in advance for five years and are more or less certain money. However, the welfare services financed by the local government are approved by the local council for one year, taking into account local priorities. This means that there may be a group in power now that prefers care, but next year another group that prefers the repair, kindergarten, or something else. It is therefore very difficult to fund welfare consistently. With the development plan for the care network, the thing is that it's still being talked about, but there's less and less talk about care treatment as a complex service. We don't have care hospitals anymore, now we have nursing hospitals, no home care, no nursing service. In general, things are slowly moving towards the disappearance of the concept of care treatment and only nursing care. This means that this mixed complex service is no longer large anywhere, but is a separate health care service and a separate social care service. Then there is the Berlin Wall sometimes, just as it has been for 50 years, nothing will change in this respect. The development plan for the care network until 2015 describes that we should have, I hope, now that I am right to say these figures from head to head, 4200 nursing homes, 2100 care hospitals, 150,000 home visits per year (these are nursing visits, health care services) and 150000 daily visits per year (this is the case with day care centres that so far do not exist). A nursing home was also provided for the chronically ill. These people aren't gonna be okay in a year. They're gonna stay down there. This nursing home still doesn't exist. That is why it is not clear what should be financed by the municipality, which should be financed by the sickness fund, by means of its own contribution. The local governments are trying to do something. Tallinn, by the way, finances care care for underprivileged people, i.e. nursing hospital's own participation. That's what Tallinn does. But what happens next is not quite clear. I say in this way that what is proposed by the Social Democratic Party Group is a moderate solution. So let's talk about it again, let's keep going. I suppose that's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U19	Thank you. Please, Helmen Kütt as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U20	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, When ministers come here to speak, they often say about the bill that it is a very good, even excellent draft. That's all I have to say. Indeed, the draft we have tabled is also a very good one. In my opinion, this will give both the Minister for Social Affairs and the municipalities the opportunity to start negotiations and to carry out the task that has been taken at one time. The initiators of the draft decision want to turn care treatment into a service based on the needs and opportunities of patients. To this end, the state budget, local government budgets and health insurance must be combined in such a way as to ensure the quality and availability of the service to those in need and to ensure that their own contribution is affordable. If this decision is taken, the Government of the Republic will have to initiate an amendment to the 'Estonian Care Management Network Development Plan 2004re2015' and find the best possible solution for organising and financing care in cooperation with local governments and the Health Insurance Fund. I agree with the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Margus Tsahkna, who pointed out that different municipalities deal with the problem differently. I've been lucky to work in the town of Viljandi. My ladies and gentlemen Peep Aru and Kalle Jents, who, although not presently in the Chamber, being mayors, always followed the proposals of the Social Security Office and tried to find money. It really doesn't matter to a person who solves his or her problem, whether it's a state or a municipality. The important thing is that the problem is solved. Both the Minister of Social Affairs and the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Margus Tsahkna, participated in the informal care forum in Viljandi, which took place at the end of August. There it seemed that our draft could lend a hand to the Minister in better planning the European Union's resources and that people involved in informal care, both carers and carers, would receive a better service. It must not be quite right if the possibility to receive the service depends on where the person lives and what the power is in this municipality. It is not right to say that municipalities do not want to deal with this issue, on the contrary, but simply do not have the means, the capacity and the money to do so. Consequently, I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will support the draft tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. After this decision, the Government of the Republic would have the opportunity to start a round of negotiations and in 2015 everyone would already have a clear and uniform access to care. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U21	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. No amendments to this draft Decision have been tabled. We shall proceed to the final vote on the draft decision. Before we do that, we'll do a presence check. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the final vote on draft 428. Since this requires a majority of the membership, we'll do a presence check. Currently 76 members of the Riigikogu have registered as present, no 25. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group, 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic' 428. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 40 members of the Riigikogu) with 7 votes against and 5 abstentions. The draft decision did not receive enough votes and was not accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U22	Let's go to the next item. The first reading of Bill 440 of the Law of Succession, the Notary Payment Act, the Law of Notariat and related amendments to other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. To present the speech chair, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you, as Helmen Kütt said in the debate on the previous point, a very good draft. The purpose of this draft is to transfer the register of successions to the Chamber of Notaries, to specify the regulations relating to the Register of Successions, and to adjust the notary fees for the professional activities for which the applicable notary fee is not provided by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U24	I'm sorry! Ladies and gentlemen, who are you in the Chamber, please respect the waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U25	The transfer of the succession register from the Harju County Court to the House of Notaries is a logical step, since the succession register is not by its nature a legal register. This means that entries made there do not create, modify or terminate legal relations in the same way as entries in the land register or the matrimonial property register. It is clear that the will does not lapse because there is no information in the succession register. Since the succession procedure is the responsibility of a notary, the notaries will be able to make their own entries instead of sending messages to the succession register after the transfer of the succession register to them. This does not increase the workload of notaries, as the current notifications will be replaced by direct entries in the succession register. There will also be a reduction in the costs of keeping a succession register, as the staff member of the succession register will no longer be necessary in the process. Changes to the succession register regulation are also linked to the updating of the succession register already started in 2009 at the Registries and Information Systems Centre, which essentially means that the entire paper archive of the succession register will be digitised and the available data will in turn be checked to improve the quality of the data. All this extensive digitisation gives citizens the opportunity to access the succession register through a new online service and to notify the register, for example, of the making, modification or cancellation of wills at home. The implementation of this project will reduce the possibility that wills will be lost and the succession will be settled on the basis of an invalid will. As the next major change, as I said, the notary's fees will be adjusted. This concerns the professional activities of notaries for which the applicable law does not provide for a fee: the minimum value of the transaction value of the rights-related transactions, the fee for a transaction-free multilateral transaction, the fee for the opening of the will deposited with the notary, and the fee for drawing up and transmitting a notice on the cancellation of the spouses' mutual will. The procedure for paying the notary's fee is also changed in cases where the notary, although preparing the transaction project, does not follow certification. In other words, no deal. The change was due to the fact that the design fee set does not allow the complexity of the transaction project to be taken into account each time or the time taken to prepare the project. In previous cases, the Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court has also declared an extra charge for the seizure of immovable property, which amounted to 0.5% of the value of the immovable property to be seized. In the opinion of the Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court, the regulation of the extra charge for the seizure of immovable property did not allow to take account of the complexity of the attachment of a particular immovable property or of the time taken for the seizure of the immovable property when determining the additional charge for the bailiff. We would therefore like to create an opportunity for the notary to ask for a fee for drawing up a project of notarial deed based on the amount of time involved in preparing a notarial deed. The aim is, in particular, a fair and transparent charging system in the event of the absence of proof and a guarantee that the notary can charge for the work performed on a clear basis. At the same time, this charge is capped and the earlier obligation to charge a fee for the preparation of a transaction project is replaced by the right of a notary to do so. I believe that the new regulation will help to ensure that the parties to the transaction, or the intermediaries, do not book too easily with notaria in the future and do not go 'fishing' to several notaries' offices to see who makes the operations necessary for the preparation of the transaction faster or cheaper. I believe, as I said at the beginning of the presentation, that this is a good draft. We hope that the Riigikogu will process this amendment quickly. In the spring, this bill was not being processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U26	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. I would like to ask for a co-report from Neeme the Great, member of the Chair Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U27	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was dealt with twice by the Committee on Legal Affairs. On the first occasion, 10 June 2013, i.e. before our summer working period, Andres Anvelt, Igor Gräzin, Kalle Jents, Marika Tuus-Laul, Siim Kabrits, Neeme Suur and Valdo Randpere, as well as Linnar Liivamägi and Raini Laide took part in the meeting of the Commission. There was no Kalle Laane and Peter Võsa. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, Madis Timpson and Kätlin Ots, Minister of Justice, Liisi Pars, Adviser to the Ministry of Justice's Monitoring and Legal Service, and Piret Saartee, Adviser to the Legislative and Development Department, were invited to the meeting of the Commission. The Minister presented the draft law to the Commission and there was a debate in the Commission. However, it must be said that we did not have a very heated debate, because it is a law that is very sector-specific. As a result, there were no different opinions or acute questions. We understand that this is primarily about strengthening the institution of a notary, giving the House of Notaries a specific additional function, i.e. the function of keeping a succession register. As such, this draft was understandable to all Members of the Commission. For the second time, we dealt with the draft on Monday, 9 September. Yesterday, in particular, we decided on the deadline for tabling amendments. As the draft will enter into force on 28 October. a, then we set the deadline of 16 September 2013 at 4 p.m. for the submission of amendments. All Members of the Commission present voted in favour of such a deadline. That means a shortened deadline for tabling amendments, five days. That, as a Commission waitress, is the end of this now. If you have any questions, I'll be happy to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U28	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 440 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 440 amendments. 16 September 2010 at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U29	Let's go to the next item. The first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to present the speech chair to Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U30	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of this draft is to transpose a directive of the Council of the European Union on interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings. The aim of the Directive is to establish common standards in the Member States of the European Union and to provide for the right of suspects and accused persons to receive interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings. The right to translation is regulated in the current Code of Criminal Procedure, but we still need to amend the existing principles in accordance with the Directive and make amendments to the Code. The draft stipulates that the person conducting the proceedings must assess each time the person's language skills and whether he or she can speak Estonian at the level necessary to understand the criminal proceedings and to protect his or her rights. We do not have a separate procedure for this, and a separate procedure may not make sense either. Rather, it is important to maintain a certain degree of flexibility for the processer, who, by interviewing or asking questions, will determine whether the person speaks the Estonian language and what the level of his or her language skills is. If the Registrar is not fully convinced that the person has sufficient knowledge of the language and there is doubt as to the need for the translation, the Registrar shall provide the person required with the assistance of an interpreter. The changes require the state to provide the assistance of an interpreter to suspects and accused persons who do not speak Estonian, even in cases where a person communicates with his or her lawyer in connection with the preparation of a procedural act or the preparation of an application or a complaint. It is important that translation is not required at any meeting, but only for those directly involved in the act involving the suspect or accused person in the course of the proceedings, as well as for the preparation and submission of an application or a complaint. The draft also extends the list of documents whose translation must be provided to the person in his or her native language or language. The documents to be translated are the record of the person's arrest as suspect, the arrest warrant, the European Arrest Warrant, the indictment and, of course, the judgment. The person shall also be given the opportunity to request the translation of other documents and evidence relevant to the subject-matter of the case or to the subject-matter of the charge. However, an oral translation or an oral summary of these documents may be provided to the person instead of translation. Here, the draft provides for certain restrictions. Documents which are of particular importance to a person in criminal proceedings, such as the indictment and the judgment, must in any case be translated in writing. In addition, there is no obligation on the parties concerned to ensure the translation of documents which are not relevant to the subjectmatter of the suspicion or accusation. Where a person requests the translation of a document which is not relevant, the party to proceedings shall have the right to refuse it. There must also be a right of appeal against the refusal of the processor. That is why you have been briefed on the need to transpose this directive. Of course, we support the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs to conclude the first reading of the draft and adopt the draft as a law in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U31	Thank you very much. You have a question. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U32	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I read in the bill that translation of documents is guaranteed to the suspect within a reasonable period of time. Perhaps it would be better to say that in no more than a month or any other way. In a reasonable time, it's written a little on the water.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U33	Thank you. The term'reasonable time' is already quite widely used in the Estonian legal order. This is where the term must be used, because the purpose of the charge is to get to court as soon as possible and above all the responsibility of the state itself. If the charge is delayed and does not reach the court, then the state must consider that there are deadlines in criminal proceedings for the criminal offence to expire. If we take the fact of obsolescence and the circumstances of the assessment of the evidence, we will see that in this sense'reasonable time' is quite appropriate. In other words, the State itself must be responsible and interested in having all these acts and documents translated to the accused as soon as possible. The accused is generally not interested in getting the translation quickly, but of course the State is interested in it as a party to the accuser. Therefore, the term'reasonable time' in the law is appropriate in every way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U34	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Kalle Jents, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, will be the co-presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft on 10 June 2013 and then there was a substantive discussion of the draft. In addition to the members of the Commission, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice Madis Timpson and Adviser to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure Markko Künnapu participated in the meeting. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda and it was also proposed to close the first reading. Unfortunately, on 19 June this draft did not reach a debate in this large Chamber, and therefore yesterday the Commission again discussed the draft in the procedural favour. In this context, it was decided to set a new deadline for proposing amendments: 16 September at 4 p.m. All these decisions were taken by consensus. During the discussion, the problem arose that the expenditure of the Estonian state is increasing due to the possibility of translation and the expansion of the right. At the same time, we realise that our criminals are also provided with a similar service in other European Union countries. This is simply necessary in order to ensure the right of defence and the understanding of the persons in which they are accused. It must be difficult to predict now how much these costs will increase, although the explanatory memorandum, if you have noticed, has written quite a lot about these costs. That's all I have to add. If you have any questions, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U36	Thank you very much. Valeri Korb is asking a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U37	Thank you. I take the courage to ask another question about this bill. The judge takes the task of assessing the knowledge of the suspected Estonian language and whether a translation is needed. Isn't it too much honor for the person to appreciate whether or not he has to translate? Isn't that opinion maybe subjective?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U38	Thank you. That's a pretty interesting question. The judge is the person who is in direct contact with the suspect. I think he still has the most information, and he can evaluate the level of language skills that this person has. He knows that if it turns out in court that the suspect doesn't understand what he's being accused of, because of his lack of language skills, but he hasn't been translated, this thing will fail in court anyway. I think it is in the interests of the judge to make a fair assessment. The suspect himself will express his opinion as to whether or not he needs the help of an interpreter. But according to the new regime, of course, the problem is that the suspect has the right to request translation. I think that there may be disputes when assessing whether or not a translation is required.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U39	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 441 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 441 amendments. 16 September 2010 at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U40	We are going to the debate on the next item. The first reading of the draft Act amending the Act on Gender Equality initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party begins. I would like to ask for a speech chair from Marianne Mikko, Member of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U41	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Ten years ago, in a referendum, the Estonian people decided to become a Member State of the European Union. One of the main commitments proposed by our country was that the new Member State of the European Union must have a valid law on gender equality as a sign of European thinking and evidence of democracy. Therefore, at the same time as Estonia became a Member State of the European Union, on 1 May 2004, the Gender Equality Act came into force. I can't get over the issue of the gender pay gap standing here in front of you. In 2013, the fact that the pay gap between Estonian women and men is the deepest in the European Union will no longer have to be emphasised. We have been faced with this awkward stuff right here in the Riigikogu all the time when the XII Riigikogu has been working. I must admit that we have worked well together to force the government to develop an action plan against the pay gap between women and men. Paragraph 11 (2) of the Gender Equality Act provides for the employer's obligation to collect gender-based occupational statistics in order to assess compliance with the principle of equal treatment in employment relationships. This provision requires the ability and ability of employers to assess the value of their organisations' positions and to ensure that their activities comply with the law. Benchmarking is a first step towards applying equal pay to female and male workers for the same or equivalent work. This is the first step in a single general movement, aimed at eliminating gender injustice in wage policy. To think it's a fake or not a real subject, there's no reason. It is only worth looking at what media coverage has been during this two years in order to understand how much people care about this subject. But I'll continue on the pay gap. The procedure for collecting gender data on the workplace and the list of data had to be established in accordance with § 11 (2) of the Gender Equality Act by decree of the Government of the Republic. It has been nine years, four months and nine days, but the Government of the Republic has not yet fulfilled the obligation imposed on them by law. Therefore, employers cannot be expected to comply with this obligation in practice. The situation in Estonia is actually quite serious, not to say tragic. While 11 years ago the pay gap between men and women was 22% to the detriment of women, this spring it had to be reported that the gender pay gap was, unfortunately, 28%. The low wage in active employment brings, of course, equally low social security benefits and, ultimately, lower pensions. This injustice sends a woman over the course of her life. Clearly, women's unfair pay is the reason why we have so many children living in poverty. Among the children of Estonia there are 40% of them. It is worth remembering that, in terms of the number of single parents, we are leaders of the European Union. It is because of the problems described above that the Estonian institution needs to work every day to promote equality between women and men and remove bottlenecks. Once again, the decision taken by the Riigikogu in autumn 2011, which obliged the Government of the Republic to develop an action plan to reduce the pay gap between men and women, is to be welcomed. It's the fruit of all our work together. At the same time, this action plan cannot cover the provision by employers of the gender data set out in section 11 (2) of the Gender Equality Act, so the objective of that legislation cannot be achieved. Chapter 7 of the Gender Equality Act obliges the Government of the Republic to approve the Gender Equality Council by way of a regulation. Its task is to confirm the broad lines of gender equality policy, to advise the Government of the Republic on gender equality strategy issues and to give the government views on the compliance of national programmes submitted by ministries with the Gender Equality Act. On 13 December 2011, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder sent a letter of formal notice to the then Minister for Social Affairs, Pevkur, stating that Article 24 of the Gender Equality Act provides for the obligation to set up a council. Failure to comply with the obligation is non-compliance with the law. A month later, the Minister of Social Affairs answered the Chancellor of Justice and agreed with him. The Minister of Social Affairs expressed his hope that the arrangements for the establishment of the Gender Equality Council will be submitted to the Government of the Republic for admission no later than 2012 and I would point out that by the end of the second quarter of last year, i.e. 30 June. It has been more than a year since those words. As of today, however, the Gender Equality Council has not been approved. In essence, for nine years the government has been acting inappropriately to the rule of law and the Ministry has failed to do the work. The inaction of the government forces the Riigikogu to exercise more intensive parliamentary supervision over the implementation of the Gender Equality Act. We therefore propose the creation of a special Committee on Gender Equality in the Riigikogu instead of the Gender Equality Council which has not been created for years. The establishment of a special Committee on Gender Equality in the Riigikogu instead of the Gender Equality Council would not fail to fulfil any of the tasks assigned to the Gender Equality Council, as this institution has not been formed for more than nine years and six years of the term of office of the Minister of Social Affairs, despite the obligations arising from the law. Thus, unfortunately, the Council has never assumed its responsibilities. The initiators of the draft act point out that the adoption of the law would not prevent the Government of the Republic from confirming its sectoral policies, including those on gender equality, if it so wished. We are convinced that the impact of the sectoral policy document on the policy-making of the Government of the Republic will be greater if it has been confirmed by the government itself, not by the advisory body set up by it, the Gender Equality Council. The Ministry of Social Affairs would remain obliged to engage in equal treatment and the promotion of equality between women and men and the coordination of activities in this field. The budgeting process is based on the principle that commitments, posts and funds intended for their execution, move together. For example, when the development of the public service was transferred from the State Chancellery to the Ministry of Finance, the corresponding posts and money moved there. It makes perfect sense to continue the same principle with regard to the institution monitoring the promotion of gender equality. The claim of the Ministry of Social Affairs that the budget for the Gender Equality Council has been set at EUR 996 this year does not express the will of the legislator as expressed in the 2013 State Budget Act. This distribution of amounts has been decided by the executive, and it refers to the government's clear unwillingness to form a gender equality council. Why am I saying this so harshly? However, because the planned amount does not allow for the hiring of any Council service official or the commissioning of studies on the subject. In the course of nine years, the Ministry of Social Affairs has used the resources for the work of the Gender Equality Council for other purposes, leaving the obligation arising from the law maliciously unfulfilled. The calculation of EUR 80000 covers the annual salary of two officials, together with a social security fee, which would ensure a minimum need for the service of the special committee. Finally, I would like to read a few lines from the July issue of Naesterhehe Job and Life in 1913: 'The greater the rights of women and the stronger and clearer the individual's knowledge of these rights, the bolder and more evenly they could stand up against all the labour-force exfoliation of women, the small amount of remuneration they pay for, any economic pressure; with greater self-consciousness, it would also be women themselves who would try to fulfil such important maternal duties in terms of public health. The entire economy, the current stage of culture, is similar so that it would be impossible to get along without using a woman's labour force. It is unavoidable that the division of work between both sexes is no longer the same; the vulgar name of a woman's "home-chicken" must be thrown into the crotch as an old-age. There are even serious voices who dare to call marriage a thing of glory. To many, no doubt, he is true. In this way, too, the question of women is a matter of life close to the whole society. Considering how close men as husbands and sons are to a woman, how closely their lives and thoughts are to a woman, the progress of a woman can only raise a man, enrich him with new spiritual experiences. ' Please listen to the programmatic thoughts of a talented woman, Marie Trip, published a hundred years ago! I would also like to support the draft law amending the Act on Gender Equality for Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U42	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U43	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The formation of Riigikogu committees is known to be governed by our Home and Rules of Procedure Act. How do you feel about the need to amend the Home and Working Procedures Act to set up a Special Committee on Gender Equality, or is it enough to amend the Gender Equality Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U44	I am aware of § 19 (1) of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act: 'The Riigikogu forms a special committee pursuant to the law, as well as for the performance of the tasks arising from the law or the foreign contract. 'If we closely follow the procedure for the draft decision 'Construction of the Special Committee against Corruption' in spring, we note that this committee was formed in exactly the same way in accordance with the above-mentioned provision of the Rules of Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U45	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U46	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! You also mentioned in your presentation that the Gender Equality Act has lived its life for nine years. I have read that during this time there have been six social ministers with the current minister. Why do you think this law has not been fully implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U47	The very short answer is very sad and harsh: because they have not wanted it, perhaps because political will has been lacking. Of course, if you look at the state sciences, there are problems that are called unsolved problems (wicked issues). These include, for example, drug addiction and HIV, but also gender equality. There are no right or wrong decisions, but there are good or bad decisions. This is actually about what is important to the social democrats. That's inclusion. We conclude that those rulers whose social affairs ministers have been in office have simply not wanted to involve the whole of society.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U48	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U49	Thank you, Madam President. Dear rapporteur, I thank you for your thorough presentation and also for the fact that this important issue has once again been raised in this Chamber. In addition to the tasks described in your bill, do you think it could be the task of this committee to analyse the laws, in particular the state budget law, through a prism of how much they take into account gender-sensitive budgeting, i.e. how much the different needs of women and men have been taken into account and whether public funds are distributed according to the needs of both sexes in order to ensure the desired result of the planned action?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U50	Thank you for a good question. I am absolutely convinced that it is also possible to look at the state budget from this point of view. I think that each of us got our anniversaries back in a small brochure that analyses how we can approach the budget in a new way. If we live in the 21st century, let us express political will. Once again, our task in this country and in society is to involve people and not to exclude those who are in a weaker position.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U51	Thank you. Please, Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U52	Thank you. Good waitress! What is the international practice, the practice of the various national parliaments for the Committee on Gender Equality? As we know, this Commission exists in the European Parliament, but what is the state of the parliaments of the Member States of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U53	Thank you, my good colleague. I can say that, at the head of the European Parliament's respective committee, there is not a woman, as you might think, but a Swedish man. As far as Member States are concerned, a third of them have a Commission whose name includes the issue of gender equality. Let us think about how important this issue is, for example, for the Danes, whom, like all Nordic countries, we have measured in the social field. During their Presidency (it was during the current Riigikogu) they also mainstreamed gender equality among the priorities of the European Union. So my answer is that there are gender equality committees in quite a number of countries and they are in a strong position to influence society's life.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U54	Thank you. The next questioner is Urve Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, You want to set up a special Committee on Gender Equality with this draft. Will you, please, theorize or predict whether and how this special committee would be able to increase the proportion of young men in higher education institutions, so in terms of the harmonious development of society, equalize the relationship between young men and girls with higher education?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U56	I think the responsibility here must be shared with the Committee on Culture. You touched on an important question. The dropout rate of Estonian young men from school is really dramatic, but I can say that it is not unique in the European Union. But our percentage is high enough. I am absolutely convinced that if the Commission has the opportunity to carry out studies, to report and debate its work on this issue once a year, we will be able to discuss this issue with all the forces in society, starting with the Special Committee on Gender Equality and ending with teachers, why not with the representatives of kindergarten teachers and universities, and to reach out to us on what is most important. But it is true that the Special Committee on Gender Equality does not only specifically address the issue of women, because people are still of two genders: men and women. If a man is in a weaker position, the issue of men must be dealt with with with with great courage. For example, the health situation of men in the Republic of Estonia is very alarmful.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U57	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U58	Thank you. Good waitress! We in Estonia are mainly talking about the issue of gender equality from the point of view that we are dealing with this little and that our leading politicians do not want to deal with this issue very much. In your speech, you once mentioned that Denmark has taken this issue as a political mainstream. Can you give any other examples of whom Estonia could take the example?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U59	I have a man very close to my heart from the south, his name is Zapatero. He was the Spanish Socialist Prime Minister, who announced with a clear, loud voice: 'I am a feminist! " Half the ministers in his government were women. At that time, a very strong gender equality law with quotas was adopted there. I dare say that the stereotyped notion that everything is only good in the Nordic countries is not true. Spain has shown very rapid progress in a very short time. I can also say that when it came to the conclusion in Belgium in the mid-1990s that gender issues were not in their best condition, since men and women were represented in Parliament and in the government and how sectoral policies had been reviewed from this point of view, the quota law was adopted there. While 16% of MEP women were there in 1996, this percentage became double as a result of the two elections. There are more than one third of women in the Belgian Parliament. It uses a striped or so-called zebra list requirement. All parties accept the idea that men and women are on the list alternately. When this striped part ends, the list ends. So there are countries in the European Union with very strong action and dramatic change of mind. We should look more closely at and analyse what is good for Estonia. It is clear that in the 21st century, in 2013, it would be very short-sighted to ignore the issue of gender equality in the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U60	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. I would like to invite Indrek Saare, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U61	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft law in its s. 17 June 2010 at the meeting. This is bill No 430 amending the Act on Gender Equality. During the debate at first reading...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U62	I'm going to specify that the bill number is 433.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U63	I'm sorry! Number 433. The position of the Government of the Republic was taken into account in the Commission's discussion. The opinion of the Government of the Republic states that despite the fact that the Gender Equality Council has not been set up for nine years, the Government of the Republic considers its creation to be reasonable and necessary. As a result of the vote, the Commission concluded that draft No 433 would not be supported, but considered that the Government of the Republic should set up the Gender Equality Council provided for in the Gender Equality Act by 1 October 2013. It was decided to send the draft to the plenary on 10 September 2013 (consensually), to reject the draft law (by 6 and against 4 members of the Commission, with no abstentions) and to appoint Indrek Saar, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur (this decision was taken once again by consensus).
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U64	Thank you very much. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U65	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Can you tell me a little bit more about what the reasons for the ministry were? How did they explain that this Council had not been formed during the nine years and six ministers' term of office? How did they justify their delay?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U66	Thank you for your question. On the form of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu receives the position of the Government of the Republic on the draft Act amending the Act on Gender Equality. Here it says: 'The Government of the Republic decided at its meeting on 6 June 2013 not to support the draft Act amending the Act on Gender Equality (433 SE), initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group of the Riigikogu. [---] Although the interest of the Riigikogu in promoting gender equality and the desire to play a more active role in this area in Estonia are welcome, the Government of the Republic cannot accept repealing the regulation of the Gender Equality Council. Despite the fact that the Council has not yet really been created, the Government of the Republic considers it to be reasonable and necessary to establish it as a body that advises it on issues relating to gender equality. The Special Committee on Gender Equality provided for in the draft Riigikogu could and has not planned to carry out a number of tasks for the Gender Equality Council (e.g. confirming the general orientations of gender policy and advising the Government of the Republic on gender equality strategy issues). It is also important that, if various stakeholders (e.g. social partners, civil society organisations, educational institutions, as well as representatives of political parties represented in the Riigikogu) important for promoting gender equality are planned to be involved, the special committee of the Riigikogu would be composed only of members of the Riigikogu. In view of these differences, it is clear that the special committee would be a body which is fundamentally different from the Council. (I would like to stress that this is the position of the Government of the Republic, not my personal position. I find a number of questions here. I. S.) In addition, even if the Riigikogu decides to set up a Special Committee on Gender Equality, the Government of the Republic cannot support the proposal in the draft explanatory memorandum to reduce the costs of the Ministry of Social Affairs in connection with the establishment of a special committee and increase the costs of the Office of the Riigikogu in the state budget by 80000 euros per year. On the basis of the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, it is unclear which basis is used for the calculation of this expenditure and where the amounts given are derived. In the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs, EUR 996 is planned for the Gender Equality Council in 2013. There is no coverage for the special committee's expenditure in the country's budget strategy for 2014‐2017. The draft would therefore entail an additional cost of EUR 80000 for the 2014 state budget. As regards the creation of the Gender Equality Council, we would like to point out that the Ministry of Social Affairs has taken a number of steps over the past year to ensure that the establishment of the Council is soon possible, including the question of ensuring the human resources needed to serve the Council and finding the Chairman of the Council. ' The questions asked during the meeting and the answers given to them showed that, as far as expenditure is concerned, the Ministry of Social Affairs in the Department for Gender Equality has a separate post this year aimed at mainstreaming gender equality. In addition, there is now a certain amount in the budget to cover the technical costs of the Gender Equality Council meeting. This was Liina Kanter's answer to Rait Maruste's question, which could be the main reason that the Council has not yet been formed. In itself, the budget strategy for the years 2014 to 2017 cannot reflect what the Riigikogu has not yet agreed. If the Riigikogu adopts a law, the budget strategy of the state will be amended on this basis. That is why such a statement can always be called into question, but that was the government's answer. As a representative of the Riigikogu, I think that if we change the law, the state budget will be amended on this basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U67	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U68	Thank you very much. Honourable performer! In its budget this year, the Ministry of Social Affairs has provided less than a thousand euros to finance the Gender Equality Council. What is your personal understanding of what such a sum gives?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U69	The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained to us that there is a person working there who should be partially involved in serving the Gender Equality Council. It can be concluded that these EUR 996 are intended only for technical costs, such as meetings. Assuming no studies are commissioned and the Council is not active, it is likely that EUR 996 will be possible to secure items such as office supplies, coffee and water over the course of the year. However, if we recalculate it as a salary number, this amount can be paid to a person for a month, at around EUR 740 if you pay social tax on it. With this money, no official who serves a council that operates continuously and works very well can possibly be hired. It is very difficult for me to say to what extent an official of the aforementioned Ministry of Social Affairs will serve the Council. My subjective assessment is that, if you look at the instruments planned, there is a serious risk that, although the creation of this Council is commendable, it may remain a formal matter. Basically, what is actually happening in the field of gender equality in Estonia is not being monitored, because the resources used to carry out this very extensive work and monitor the problem and order research are not available.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U70	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U71	Dear waitress, I understand from your reading that the Government of the Republic considers it necessary for the Council to be established to assist it in this matter. As an experienced politician, what do you think is the likelihood that the government will set up such a council? If he does not, will your committee be ready to return to this issue itself or will the Social Democrats have to take the initiative again?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U72	Now I should start predicting. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs should be one of those committees that deals with the issue of gender equality, because we do not have a separate committee for this. Looking at how persistent the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been about this issue, I can recall an annual meeting with the Gender Equality Commissioner, where he will take stock of what has happened during the year. One time we discussed at a joint session with the Committee on Legal Affairs what will come from the money of the Norwegian measure for which the Commissioner for Gender Equality is actually doing his job. The Estonian state's money will be much less spent on this. I do not remember more of a lasting interest, or even the spontaneous raising of these issues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at a more general level, it remains the domain of the social democrats, who occasionally point this out. As the vote on this procedure shows, the Commission's general mind is known to be rather conservative, i.e. to be satisfied with how gender equality works in Estonian society and how role-playing images have settled in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U73	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U74	Thank you, Madam President. Here's the question. If you believe in the IPU, or the Interparliamentary Union, the Riigikogu is dealing with this subject by two committees: the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Social Affairs Committee. Perhaps you can say and explain to those who still hesitate to vote in favour of this bill, why should there be anything else?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U75	Thank you. I am pleased to hear that, at least in the IPU, we are at the forefront, that we have two committees that work in depth in this area. On behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs, I do not dare to speak. I spoke of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in answer to the previous question. This is certainly not one of those issues that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers to be a priority. If you look at how strongly this issue affects all areas of life, but if a small part of the working time of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been spent discussing this issue, I think it is being dealt with superficially, to put it mildly, and it is considered to be inferior. Against this background, it seems to me that we are quick to report and write down the birds, that we have two committees dealing with this issue, but in fact there are not many initiatives that have come from the Committee on Social Affairs on gender equality and which have finally come into the draft legislation, not many. I dare say so. Looking at the rapidly changing society of the 21st century and at how quickly Estonian society has developed and changed, even in the last few decades, and at the image of different generations of gender roles in society, what gender patterns should be and how to put themselves into this context, I think that in 20 years it has all changed to the unknown. This generation, who grew up in the 1990s, maybe understands things differently than the generation that has grown up later. It is therefore essential to find a balance, to mediate different concepts and to find a compromise. I think it concerns a very large number of draft laws that we are dealing with. If there is no one to systematically monitor how this gender aspect is addressed in the draft legislation, then I think that this activity is not targeted, but rather random. I come back to what Marianne Mikko, the initiator of the bill, spoke about. When we look at sociological research, including the last human development report, we see that it is one of the prevailing issues that helps us to find a better balance in society and provide a new generation with a living environment that they can feel as a full member of, rather than feel like somewhere in a museum. Therefore, I think that such a commission would also be very necessary in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U76	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U77	Thank you. Dear waitress, I come from equality to a more fundamental issue, i.e. the rule of law. However, this is a question for you as a representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs should ensure that there are constitutional arrangements in place in Estonia. One of its most important components is that the laws adopted and in force in Estonia are actually implemented. Consequently, I want to know from you what emotion the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who voted against this draft look at the situation where the law adopted and the law in force are not actually implemented and what the future steps of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are in order that the laws adopted and in force in Estonia can still be implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U78	Thank you. That is a very good question, but it is very difficult for me to answer it because I belong to the four members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who thought differently than the majority in the Commission. It's really hard for me to imagine myself in these other coats and to describe their emotions to you. I really don't dare. This would require at least a thorough role analysis, but since I have not been able to play on the theatre stage yet, I cannot even rely on this experience. Maybe it would also be a little cartoonical, and it wouldn't describe that emotion exactly. That's why I don't have the guts to say it. But what's there to deny, I think that the year of the law's commitment in itself, and more than nine years in order to form one council, speak for themselves. I think it is deeply embarrassing that the Estonian state is not fulfilling its own commitments. All the more so when we look at the situation of the Ministry of Social Affairs, we see that there is actually no serious or objective fact here either, because the resources that are going to be spent on this Council, if, however, it should be born this autumn as a result of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Socialist Law Initiative, is certainly not the reason that would have prevented the creation of this Council. This situation can be described simply as recklessness, as a failure to perceive the problem and, ultimately, as a failure to comply with the law. It is sad, but as we can see, the majority in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not think that there should be any other response to it. A signal was sent to the government. The protocol states that by 1 October this Council could have been formed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U79	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U80	Thank you, Madam President. Recently, the press reported that one candidate for the Mayor of Haapsalu had expressed the opinion that the city should be run by men, not women. This 'brainful attitude' towards the issue of gender equality can often be seen in the public information space. Do you think this is a marginal or insignificant issue, or is it some kind of socialist weird? Why do the Social Democrats deal with this and is it an important issue in society?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U81	Fortunately, there has been a lot of talk about this issue in public space lately. I think if I said here that this is a marginal issue, I would be ignorant. We are in a situation where very many areas of life have been hampered precisely because gender equality has not been guaranteed. We also have the deepest pay gap among European countries. At this point in time, to say that this is a marginal issue is either ignorant or extremely cynical. In that case, it is self-righteous why nothing is done. I think this is a very important subject. With regard to the social democrats, it is certainly clear that if the aim is to seek a greater balance in society, this balance will also be sought between the well-established gender roles of men and women and the changed time. I guess the other parties, the bigger parties, have not yet clearly perceived this problem. We hope that they will increasingly be following the example of the Social Democrats on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U82	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U83	Thank you. I also have a constitutional problem. This law has not been complied with for nine years. It's not even very embarrassing, it's much more awful than it is very embarrassing. In a bit of a mockery of all the governments that have been in power in the meantime, I ask whether, suddenly, the Constitution should be amended and, in addition, the paragraph that a government that has not begun to comply with the obligations imposed on it by law within six months is considered to have been reinstated and everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U84	That's a great idea. With your permission, I will bring this matter up in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and say that Eiki Nestor, an experienced member of the Riigikogu, has such a proposal. Since, fortunately, the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is also in the Chamber, I certainly do not forget this. We can certainly discuss this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U85	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U86	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I sat up in my office and listened to and followed this debate, which even reached the spirit of the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It provoked me to come here and talk a little bit. The current Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been in office for just over two and a half years. The subject has been up late. The current Committee on Constitutional Affairs cannot be held accountable for the situation that has developed. It was rightly pointed out that this issue has been discussed repeatedly in the Commission and we have found that the situation is not nice. Once a decision has been taken to respond to the problem by setting up an appropriate Council, and this decision has been outstanding for years, this situation does not decorate either the government or the legislator. However, the establishment of a special Riigikogu commission is not, in our opinion, the way in which we should respond to the problem. If there's anything left to do, let's finish it. We have had negotiations with both the previous and the current Minister of Social Affairs. They have explained that it has been difficult to form this Council. That, of course, is not an excuse. But indeed, many people who have been approached have not become members of this Council for any reason. According to the latest information provided by Taavi Rõivas, a positive response has now been received from people who have been approached and the Council is likely to start working in the near future. It is not appropriate to believe that the establishment of a special Riigikogu commission would solve all our social or equality problems. These problems are much deeper and broader. Of course, this issue needs to be kept on the agenda on a continuous basis, for which socialist colleagues must be congratulated, but the problem cannot be solved only by setting up a single special committee. That was our understanding. If the work of the Council set up by the Ministry of Social Affairs does not produce results, or if this council remains passive, then we will take the next step. But let's take one step at a time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U87	Thank you very much. Please, Olga Soldier! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by quoting the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which states: 'Everyone is equal before the law. No one shall be discriminated against on grounds of nationality, race, colour, gender, language, origin, religion, political or other beliefs, property and social status or other circumstances. ' In 2004, 12 years after the adoption of the Constitution, the Act on Gender Equality was passed. The purpose of this Act is to ensure equal treatment of men and women under the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and to promote equality between women and men as one of the fundamental human rights and the general good in all areas of society's life. Despite these laws and beautiful words, women and men in today's Estonia have equal rights, opportunities and obligations only de jure, not de facto. Gender equality must be a fundamental principle that takes account of all aspects of life. Gender mainstreaming is a cross-cutting principle in the European Union. Unfortunately, the promotion of gender equality is not an objective for the current government coalition. It will only be promoted on paper, in a campaign procedure and for foreign money, with the support of external projects. This is evidenced by the fact that in nine years six ministers have not been able to form a gender equality council. That is why we are working on this bill today. At this point, I will do a little side-by-side and thank all these organisations and institutions, both in Estonia and abroad, who will contribute to the promotion of equality and the universal cessation of discrimination in Estonia. Just yesterday, I had the opportunity to attend an event on this subject. This took place in the framework of the 'Diversity Enriches' programme, which is supported primarily by the European Union in cooperation with the Institute of Justice of the TUT, the Estonian Human Rights Centre and the British Embassy. The Ministry of Social Affairs also provides some support. But I think that these issues should not be co-financed, but should mainly be supported by the state budget. In the 2012 World Economic Forum report, Estonia ranks 60th in the gender equality ranking. In six years, our position has fallen by 31 seats. When this report was drafted in 2006, we were 29th. This report shows that Estonia is doing the worst in terms of gender equality in two areas: economics and politics. One of the main reasons why Estonia is so behind international comparison is that the pay gap in Estonia is very large, bigger than in exotic countries, such as Burundi or Uganda, for example. According to Statistics Estonia, the gross hourly rate for women was 24.6% lower than for men in October last year, while the gender pay gap increased by 1.8 percentage points compared to 2011. When it comes to the political weaknesses in this area, it is enough to recall how many female ministers there are in the current government, how many women there are in the Riigikogu, how many of them run committees, how many women city heads and council chairs. The number of women in government and representative councils is in many respects a matter for political parties to decide. It is important how many women are on the lists they are in, how many are being helped with the campaign, whether the so-called zipper principle is being monitored for listings, so that any other candidate is a woman. Fortunately, however, there are also some political parties in Estonia for whom gender equality is important. My home party is one of them. At the congress on Saturday, the chairman of the Centre Party called himself a fighting feminist and recalled that the Centre Party has launched many talented and fine women into Estonian politics. This is evidenced by the fact that the highest representation of women in the Riigikogu is in our group, as well as the high proportion of women among Tallinn's leaders. There were also women in the government, five in all, most of all when the Centre Party was in the government. However, in the interests of the truth, I must remind you with embarrassment that the candidate for the mayor of the Central Party, Haapsalu, is convinced that women are not fit to run the city. Unfortunately, since he is not a member of the Centre Party, he cannot be sued for honor. But I would advise my partymates in Haapsalu to think once again whether such a person with the views of the previous century would be suitable for the mayor candidate of the Central Party. By taking this opportunity, I apologize to all the people who were insulted and disturbed by his words! When I come back to the way the government coalition feels about gender equality, I recall our debate on the European Commission's directive on the introduction of gender quotas in large stock exchange companies. One main argument against this was that the problem could be solved even without quotas. If this can be resolved without quotas, why is it not done? The State has a number of companies with its own participation. As of yesterday, there were 31 of them, with 139 members on their boards and boards, of whom only 16 or 11.5% are women. The state has real levers to show the private sector how to involve more women in corporate governance, but the state does not take advantage of this opportunity. One might ask how a representative of a party with a liberal world view can support quotas. However, there are some areas where, without quotas, problems cannot be solved in any way, and it seems that gender equality is one of them. I think it is justified to introduce temporary quotas in this area. If you come back to the 433 bill, it must be said that it is a good bill, but it can be improved even better if it is left in the process and not voted out of the procedure. Perhaps there is no need to abolish the requirement to form a gender equality council. We hope that this will indeed happen, as Mr Maruse said, that it will be created in the near future. But we can also set up a special parliamentary committee on equality, because the problems that we have to deal with will continue for everyone, both for this Council and for our special committee. In addition to carrying out the tasks listed in the draft law, this special committee should be responsible for analysing the principles of gender sensitivity of laws, in particular the State Budget Act. The principles of gender-sensitive budgeting must be applied to all laws. Gender-sensitive budgeting does not mean that expenditure is distributed equally between women and men, nor does it mean that there are separate budgets for women and men. Similarly, gender-sensitive budgeting does not necessarily mean an increase in women's spending. Gender-sensitive budgeting helps identify how public resources are distributed between men and women, where the needs of men and women overlap and where they differ. If the needs are different, the funds can also be planned on this basis. Against this background, the Centre Party Group supports the initiative of the Social Democratic Party Group to amend the Gender Equality Act and calls on all parties, as well as the Alliance of Democrats in the Riigikogu, to join this initiative and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U89	Thank you very much. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that there are people and parties in our society, and also in this Chamber, who really believe that gender equality is not a real problem, but is some sort of imported weirdness. Or worse, there are those who truly believe that the subject of equality has been raised by the organisers of the Bronze Night to try the spiritual endurance of the Estonian people. More than nine years have passed since 1 May 2004, when the government's obligation to set up a government commission was enshrined in the law, but this committee has not been set up. The government, when presenting its arguments against the draft Social Democrats, said that the Riigikogu commission could not do all the essential things that could be done by the government commission if it were merely formed. It reminded me of a long-read fairy tale called Empty Hunters. There is a strange village where the people lie on the stove and speak with a big mouth, that their lemepots would still spout if they once went into the field and planted the grain. Really, it is cynical to consider what has not been bothered to do essential. We believe that gender equality is an important issue in Estonian society. There is no doubt that gender issues can be promoted and resolved in a number of ways. If a cat really catches mice, it really doesn't matter what color it is. However, since the government has shown, either by its actions or by its lack of action, that it does not consider this matter to be a priority, I do not, however, now that the government has promised to take steps to enable this Commission to be set up, to have any belief that this Commission will actually work or that the government will, if it does, consider the recommendations of this committee to be important and to take into account. It cannot be denied that the issue of gender equality has often been retreated in this Chamber and in the Government of the Republic, too. The previous speaker already recalled the debate on the gender balance of boards of stock exchange companies when the government promised to take other measures without specifying which. At the time, I drew attention to the fact that the State has set an exceptionally bad example by naming only men to the boards of several important state-owned or state-owned companies. If, for example, we look at what Estonian Air has done in recent years, it is difficult to say that its council was formed on a purely seatocratic basis. Finally. A colleague in this Chamber asked how to get more men to complete higher education. That is a very good question, because gender equality is certainly not only a matter for women but also for men. However, in my opinion, the answer to this important question is directly linked to another subject which has been constantly raised and raised by the Socialists, namely the gender pay gap. If there was still a job requiring higher education, which is done primarily by women in Estonia, such as the work of a kindergarten teacher would be paid considerably more than a man who is mostly in charge of secondary education, such as a builder, then there would probably be a lot more young men behind the doors of higher education institutions. Let us, once in this Chamber, set a positive example for the government, the Estonian business world and society as a whole and proceed with this very important bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-10_U91	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. The Commission's proposal is that draft 433 should be rejected at first reading. We must vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 433 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 45 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 23 against, with no abstentions. Thus, the draft 433 has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's agenda is exhausted and the session is closed. I wish everyone a beautiful day! Closure of the sitting at 12.11.
