ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 12th working week. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. There's no call. No messages. We're conducting a presence check. 70 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 31.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending § 32 of the State Budget Act initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? We do not recommend opening negotiations; we can start preparing the final vote. Due to the fact that draft 547 requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, we will carry out a verification of presence before the final vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 23. I will put draft 547 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 68 parliamentarians voted in favour, no votes against or abstentions. Draft Act 547 amending § 32 of the State Budget Act initiated by the Finance Committee has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U3	The second item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Land Reform Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do you want to open negotiations? There are no requests, so we can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 516 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 77 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The draft law amending the Land Reform Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 516 has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U4	We will move on to the third item, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Customs Act, the Penal Code and the Law on the Export, Export and Import of Cultural Goods, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? I will put draft 515 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft Act amending the Customs Act, the Penal Code and the Law on the Export, Export and Import of Cultural Goods, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U5	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on study grants and student loans, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 478 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 75 votes against 0 and 2 abstentions, the draft law amending the law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Social Democratic Party has been adopted as 478 law. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U6	Let us move on to the fifth item, which is the debate on the national issue of the impact of family benefits on birth rates and children's well-being, which is crucial. Let me briefly present the procedure for this debate. That's next. First of all, the presentation of Senior Research Fellow Mare Ainsaare at the University of Tartu will be 20 minutes and the questions and answers will be 30 minutes. Secondly, the presentation of the senior researcher Marge Undi at Tallinn University in 20 minutes and questions and answers in 30 minutes. Thirdly, the presentation of Urve Palo, a member of the Social Democratic Party Group, for 15 minutes and the questions and answers for 15 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may submit two oral questions to the rapporteurs in the course of the discussion. After that there will be a round of negotiations where representatives of committees and political groups, as well as other members of the Riigikogu, may speak. The Social Democratic Party Group has proposed that political group representatives first take the floor in the negotiations, and has also proposed extending the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. We will come back to this proposal on an ongoing basis, as necessary. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Please present a speech chair to Senior Research Fellow Mare Ainsaare of the University of Tartu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for inviting me to speak on this very important subject. In order not to waste time, I will start briefly with why this topic is so important in Estonia. I think all this is very familiar to you, but it is still important. Estonia is small. My background is population surveys, and that is why I am mainly talking about how family benefits and the most child benefits could be linked to population events, but not just that. We're a small country. We have no reason to worry too much about it, but to some extent we do. We have a little more reason to be concerned about the fact that there has not been a single year in the last 20 years if Estonia's population had increased. If we look at this loss, we can see that about 40% of it comes from natural growth, i.e. births and deaths, and 60% from migration. Family benefits and child benefits are, of course, directly linked to the lives of our population. What does that mean anyway? There is no reason to predict any catastrophe, but when we think about the economy, how the country works, it is very much affected by the growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U8	Good waitress, I'm sorry for a moment! I'll take the manager's one-minute technical break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U9	Good colleagues, the chairman's break is over, our screenshots have been made bigger. Good waitress, please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U10	Dear waitress, would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U11	Thank you very much for the bigger picture. These figures are important; population scientists most love to compare birth rates with the combined birth rates. That's the top line you see. The birth rate of Estonia is low. If we compare European countries, we are often happy that we are not among the latter. In some years we manage to be in the middle or a little above average. The problem for Estonia is that our figure is not enough for crowds. We see that we have had worse and better times. That's the limit of return. That's two. The bottom line is an even more accurate coefficient that shows the recovery, and it should be one. This is, of course, related to the reproduction of families, the birth of children and subsidies. Now, from our future. In population science, as in surgery, the result is derived from existing material. This is a picture of what material we have in Estonia. When we think about the birth rate, we are thinking, above all, about people aged 20 to 40. This is a picture of how many people we thought we had in Estonia, and what was really the situation after the census, which is known to be the criterion of truth. We thought we had a large generation born during the singing revolution, who should have many children right now. The actual figures do not reflect this; we learned that this generation is much smaller. These people have disappeared from Estonia. But absolute numbers still matter. From the point of view of the functioning of the state, it is not only the coefficients used in population science that matter, but how many births, children, workers in absolute numbers. What does that mean? This means that for the next ten years, we will have the last chance to have quite a few children naturally. A generation of 15 to 19-year-olds and even younger generations are considerably smaller. If they worked hard too, if Estonia's social policy were also very supportive, the result would still be worse. In this sense, the next five years will be very important, which will determine the number of births that are important for Estonia's future. Something good, too. We have something in Estonia that many other countries do not have. We have people's desire to actually have children. The total length of this column shows essentially the potential of what people want, what they think is a normal number of children. This is the potential that could perhaps be realised in Estonia. The difference between the blue and red columns is associated in developed European countries with different barriers and reasons why the number of children desired cannot be realised. There may also be something to do with family policy. I will now come to family policy and demographics. Just in case, of course, these things aren't easy. As is often the case in society and in people's lives, the real outcome is influenced by a combination of many factors. What do we know about the functioning of policies? They affect people's behaviour, the most important in family policy, from the time when children are born. The latter also affects the number of children. Policies depend on what people want and what they think. It's also about money. All kinds of policies, the functioning of the state is linked to the redistribution of resources. So when we think about family policy choices, after birth, all these decisions are also related to taxes, forward-looking decisions and people's economic behaviour. We can talk about justice, about solidarity, about equality, but basic family policy is about people's signals and how they understand them. Of course, family policy can have a wide range of objectives. I have now spoken most about the birth rate, but in fact, Estonia has done the most research on how politics affect livelihood. In particular, poverty has been studied. Poverty, however, may not be the best parameter for measuring birth rates and the impact of family policies. Studies show that when people make these decisions, they do not necessarily compare themselves with the poorest groups, or at least it is not a reference group to pursue. It still compares to my own kind, and in this case it is a comparison, which is the difference between having children or having no children, whether my life is easier or easier or the same if my children are there. Some decisions or some policies are certainly influenced by what is happening to gender equality. Let me give you an example. Parental benefit has had a major positive effect. As a surprising positive effect, studies have pointed out that, after its implementation, many women said for the first time that they had their own money when they were home with their children. There was a certain amount of money in the past, but since it was so small, the serving family member, who mostly has a husband, maintained the family. How equality between men and women is working against the birth rate of all other factors, the choices that can be made to cope with the family, is one of the key factors in many countries' family policies. What does scientific theory say? A study of the 1980s, which received the Nobel Economic Prize, allows us to believe that, in principle, support is beneficial. Why is there even support? Some countries around the world support families with few children, while those without many children support families with many sons, or chicks. What's it coming from? Is this a purely egotistical choice, or is it a solidarity approach in particular? There are different theories, but the fact is, in the end, support comes in handy. In the case of humans, we know that today, when deciding to have a offspring, it is mostly planned behavior. What else do theories say, and what do the current family policies actually apply? Estonian family policy is broadly similar to that of other countries. These general theoretical bases apply. If we look at the costs of families' children, they could in principle be divided into three. There are direct costs for children, which are mostly taken into account in child benefits and other direct financial benefits for families; there are indirect costs associated with the loss of parent's income, just as the parent stays at home to raise the child, he or she must give up his or her earning income, which is being compensated by benefits and various paid parental leave; and there are lost opportunities to pursue a career and endure competition at all. Whether we want it or not, life is competition. And when we think about families with children, they have to compete with the rest of the families. When people make decisions about whether to have a child or not, they weigh all these factors. Why are children born? Very primitive and sketchically speaking, it could be said that the desire to have children today is very important. This is fundamental, and with this desire, Estonia is actually very well. But this desire comes with fears, hesitations, suspicions that it will be handled. We have reason to believe that this fear can diminish our desire to have children. I will tell you about one final study specifically about Estonia, whether this whole theory works or not. Indeed, behavioral control works, certain fears exist. Here it is graphically depicting what kind of fear we are dealing with. It turned out that they had a strong influence on the plans to have a child. At the same time, the attitude of whether people want children affects them. Sometimes it is thought that there are general standards and that the number of children that society thinks should be of great importance. This will not work for Estonia. Young people in Estonia do not care what society or surrounding people expect from them. They are quite egotistical and largely based on personal perceptions. What else do we know from the research? What are these fears? What are people afraid of? Why do many postpone having desired children? It is known that deferment means giving up children at some point. We have studies that measure these arguments very accurately. The reasons may be grouped into four categories. (Actually there are five categories, the fifth being all other reasons which do not fall under any other category.) Many fears relate to various economic reasons in Estonia. Worried whether the new child can be raised and whether other children receive sufficient support, whether housing costs can be covered, etc. The fact that there is no partner or that the partner does not want it is also an important reason. Still called youth, many people think that it is simply not the right time, that you need to complete your studies or do something else in life before you think about having a child. Reference is also made to the difficulties involved in reconciling work and family life. Here we see that there are factors that the state can do something to change and there are factors in which the state cannot contribute. In Estonia, it is not our custom to have a partner; in some other countries, the state also deals with this. Nor are we likely to change the attitude of these partners. In most cases, the country's family policy is linked to economic factors as well as to making it possible to reconcile work and family life. And in view of the general population situation, the state could do much to prevent us from losing young people who are going abroad, or at least be able to attract them back at some point. The state must be able to encourage young people. To do so, of course, we need to know what the situation in other countries is. Let me talk to you about family benefits. We see how they have evolved in 2005-2010. The amount of family allowances in Estonia has generally increased in euro. This can also be said in view of the purchasing power of the subsidies. So, broadly speaking, Estonia's family policy has become stronger. At the same time, it is known that state support is very unevenly distributed. The allowance is very high in the first year of the child's life, much lower in the future. What else do we know about Estonia? We know that parenthood in Estonia is selective. This is demonstrated by numerous studies on the impact of parental benefit. Since this application, the expected result is that it has become rather well - off parents. This study you see here shows how satisfaction in families with children and without children differs. The result for Estonia is very positive. Families with children are happier and more satisfied with life. If further analysed, we will see that this is primarily because parenthood is pre-selective. People who have certain personal qualities become parents, and the economic situation is not much affected. A few more results on the impact of family benefits. These dots on this scheme are different countries. There are countries where there is a big difference between parents and couples without children. We see that supporting families has a positive effect on parents'satisfaction in their lives. The higher the level of public support, the more it will, of course, have an impact on families' economic livelihoods. Now for the child benefits. Child benefits are one measure of family policy and must be chosen whether to differentiate it and, if differentiated, how. In Estonia, they have not depended on incomes, they are paid on parity and they differ in that third and more children are supported more than the first and others. Would differentiation by income, which is one of the topics of the current political debate, be reasonable or not? This decision should be made with great caution. Rather, it should be taken into account that differentiation by income is not likely to be cost-effective, since any administrative costs and other measures related to the economic behaviour of people may have a negative impact on the public purse in the long term. I mean, you gotta pull the income line somewhere and check it out. For all kinds of borders, however, it is known that people are trying to show their incomes when they are bigger or smaller in the way they are more useful. There is also a separate question as to whether this would in principle be right at all. It is very difficult to explain why this would be right. There is little to worry about in this sense that child benefits are, fortunately, money that is about to be put into circulation. Whether the family is wealthy, poor, or average, the children are still involved in expenses. Studies show that, if all the costs associated with raising a child are taken together, this amount is slightly over EUR 500 per month, of which approximately EUR 200 is direct. If we ask the people how much they think the state's contribution would be fair, it will be worth 60 to 70 euros a month. Politics gives signals to society. The distribution of grants is a signal of what kind of children the country expects, either children of wealthy families, poor families or children of medium-sized families. Why would some children want more than others? Estonia is a small country and we have so many reasons to want as many children as possible that it is reasonable to give a signal that all children are welcome. Let me show you another picture. Estonia's policy has been to differentiate child benefits according to the order of birth of the children. In the 1990's, the first children were thought to be born anyway, and they were born. From this figure, we can see how much less we now have the first children than we did in 1990. The first kids aren't born anymore. And the problem is that if there are no first children, there are, of course, no others, no thirds, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U12	One minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U13	Please, just a minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U14	A few more words on why the term "child support" can be misleading. Children's allowance is spoken in Finland and elsewhere. It is not just a grant, it is a reimbursement of children's costs. Support for the first child is very important; it is a much more understandable measure for people than many other instruments of family policy. If people do not understand the need for this measure, the expected effect may not come. If this allowance is not differentiated by income, it does not have a stigma. What do studies over the years show? It is very important that children's money has very strong support from society, and it is recognised by both the wealthy and the poor. For many other measures, such as labour market measures or other measures that take into account differences in people's incomes, there is no general support in Estonia. In the case of support for families and children, however, there is a consensus in society that this is a good and right thing. Perhaps we could also rename child benefit as child benefit. And, of course, these sums could be increased by itself, it is very difficult to find some arguments against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U15	Thank you very much, good waitress. You have questions. Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U16	Thank you very much. It was very enjoyable to listen to your analysis and it is very unfortunate that we are not here full house. There are relatively few interested people in the hall, and I apologise for that! I would like to hear your opinion on the statement by one of my Norwegian colleagues that women in Norway are born when they feel that 20 years are a safe time for them to grow up, and society is organising things in the right direction. In other words, if the overall background is good, women are born. This is proven not only by Norway but also by Sweden, for example. To what extent could such a statement be valid in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U17	I think basically that's true for us. This picture also opens up in the science scenery, scientists have mapped out the fears and desires of having children. In the last ten years, particularly in Eastern Europe, there has been more reference to the need for a longer-term sense of security. A separate question is what this sense of security should be about. In the case of Estonia, economic confidence and confidence in the state are very important. Family behavior also plays a role. Many family researchers have reasoned that it must be possible to raise children, regardless of the financial situation of the family.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U18	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, good waitress Mare, my former fine colleague. It was a very interesting presentation, indeed! I will continue on the subject raised by Marianne. One example I have in mind is Iceland, one of the happiest countries in the world. At the same time, it is very interesting that there is a very high divorce rate in this country, but children are still growing very much. We also have the same trend of separating many or no formal families. Why do you think there's a lot of births in Iceland, we don't?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U20	Thank you very much for your question. The answer is that in today's world family behavior, including marriage and divorce, is very cultural. Countries are very different. Iceland is one of the Nordic countries and in these countries, as well as in Estonia, the birth rate may not depend very much on marriage and cohabitation. Iceland is a special example precisely in the sense that there is a relatively high birth rate, a very large number of children born outside the formal marriage and considerable support for families. I, too, have been trying to find out from the Icelandic family investigators what their phenomenon is. It may be assumed that support for families in general, and especially for single parents, plays a role, but my colleague's answer was that such ordinary community support is at the root of everything in Icelandic society. The island kingdom is small, and there is a sense of security that no matter who is born there, they are held together there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U21	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U22	Thank you. Dear waitress, You said that one of the main obstacles to having children is the economic causes of 81%. Can you specify the extent to which this concerns specific income groups? Probably the highest income quintile is much less of this concern than in families with lower incomes? How big is the difference? Do middle families have the same problem as the poorer ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U23	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U24	Thank you very much. According to the latest survey, this is basically a concern for everyone. But of course, it's true that if you look at the very general distribution, the groups with lower incomes have a little bit more. It's not just that family doesn't have food money one day. There is also concern about housing and how to cope in the first place. At the moment, I am indebted to this answer, how this concern varies with regard to different types of income quintiles. But yes, economic reasons are highlighted in every quintile, and this is a surprise. Highly wealthy people should have no such concern at all. It is the same with child support: rich people could not support child support, at least they do not need it, but they still think it is right.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U25	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Here's what I'm gonna ask you. If the problems of kindergartens and schools could be solved, how much more courage would that give birth to children? How much do these problems make parents hesitate now so that they do not dare to take this step?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U26	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U27	Thank you for your question. 35% of the Estonian people who wanted to have a child but delayed it, linked it to the lack of kindergarten places. Of course, the problem varies greatly from one region to another, mainly causing headaches in some large cities. But yes, if you put obstacles in the ranking, this is one of the main problems in Estonia, as most people live in these very large cities, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U28	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Thank you very much for this comprehensive and very interesting overview! Children are born out of love, but economic factors, especially single parents, certainly have an impact. A large number of children are known to grow under the care of a single parent, usually a mother. These are mostly single- or two-child families. Universal child benefit also gives them a signal that every child is welcome. It's not going to happen when they're born into a poorer family or a richer family. Do you think that needs-based family support will not be applied for by many because people do not want to go long, ask for it and prove their poverty?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U29	Thanks for the question. There is no reliable record of how many people fail to apply for it, but it has indeed been heard. It is, in itself, a controversial issue. On the one hand, we want people to know the means and benefit from them. On the other hand, the people of Estonia would like to cope without seeking this so-called poverty-based support. It is, in itself, a very good trend, although it may mean greater economic difficulties for those involved. This is where I see a problem with these poverty-based subsidies. The time may come when the thinking world of the Estonian people will change. They want to be poor because then they get part of the country's wallet. I would say that this means such a spiritual genocide on the Estonian people. It is not bad if the goal is, as so far, to cope well, to be rich and ambitious.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U30	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Thank you for an interesting overview. My question concerns one of your slides. You said that family policy measures are implemented by the state, local government and people in cooperation. It is clear that the state imposes regulations through laws, regulations and instructions. Local authorities have very little to say about this. But now this block of people, are family benefits and parental benefits sufficiently discussed with scientists and other experts? Have your suggestions been taken into account? You stressed in your report that very fundamental decisions must be taken over the next five years. Have scientists been asked to help with their five-year plans? What is the involvement of experts in planning our family policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U32	If the question is whether the national institutions are interested in research on this issue, I will say that they do. For example, the Ministry of Social Affairs has a number of studies planned and we ourselves have recently completed a study focusing on reconciling the work and family life of Estonians and non-Estonians. By the way, there were no major intrinsic differences between Estonians and non-Estonians. Compared to six years ago, a little less family policy or family research has been commissioned. However, there is a certain effect on our institutions, I do not want to say that it does not exist at all. Of course, scientists would like it to be done as they recommend. However, this often does not happen, and it must be. Everyone has a role to play, including the Riigikogu and the Government. And everyone is responsible for their decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U33	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U34	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you very much for your interesting presentation! I particularly noted your idea that perhaps we could talk not about child support, but about child support. Hence my question: Do you have any ideas about what measures might be taken to make this child's money a real child's money in the family? How can we ensure that this does not go to solve any other problems, whether social or even addictive? How could the system work to make money for the child's development and not for other purposes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U35	Thank you very much for your question. This is one of the main questions that we are asked about. We have reason to worry about whether public money will reach where it is needed. I am a great advocate of child benefit, or child benefits, precisely because I have seen how, ten years ago, when child benefits were a little smaller, the system just worked that way. What happened when it turned out that parents did not use child support in a targeted way? A great deal of practice was that child support was temporarily withdrawn from parents at local level. This was a perfectly legal opportunity and was also implemented by a number of local authorities. To my surprise, it turned out that in very many cases the situation in the family was normalized, i.e. the parents became better parents. Not in every family, of course. But what is important: this measure is different, for example, from parental benefits, all kinds of leave and other family policy measures, in that if the money does not reach the child to whom it is intended it can be taken back from it. The target group is very clear and if the money is not used in a targeted way, the situation can be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U36	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, my dear waitress, for a very meaningful and thoughtful presentation. This year's state budget costs 103 million euros for family allowances and 170 million euros for parental benefits. If you were here instead of me as a politician and pressed the buttons, would you change these proportions within a certain amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U38	Thank you for your question. Economists talk about the Pareto-optimal division. In the case of parental benefits, I believe that it is possible to find some truly optimal distribution. This compensation has a high level of pros and from the moment this application, many poverty indicators decreased considerably. The key question is this distribution. By paying all this money, which is really very big money in Estonia's sense, we also look very good on the outside. Our whole family allowance package is a significant part of parental benefit. But yes, it's a question of its distribution. I'd think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U39	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There has been the most debate in this hall on the axis of universal versus necessity-based. It is claimed that universal support is the sowing of money from an airplane, it is not effective and it still needs to be focused very accurately. But how many children even grow in wealthy families and how many in normal, medium or medium-income families? It seems to me that children grow much more in middle-income or lower-average-income families. They also say that the richer the family, the fewer children. Is that how it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U41	Thank you for your question. Trends in recent years show that, partly because of the effects of parental benefit, the number of births and children in wealthier families has increased slightly more. However, the problem is that our birth rate has not increased in itself. This has slightly decreased in Estonia and the aim is, however, that there could be as many children in all families as they are wanted. If children are not born in families with lower or middle incomes, this is a problem. Now this fundamental question of whether child benefits are subsidies or whether this money should be allocated to all children. One argument is that child benefits are not typical subsidies. Who should be supported? Unlucky, poor or who can't cope for any other reason. Child benefit is money to raise a child. We believe that there are certain costs involved in raising all children. It is very difficult to argue about this; some even stress that children spend more money in wealthier families. In general, however, countries do not quite make it possible to give them more money. If we believe that there are costs involved in raising children, there is no good argument as to why a family should be deprived of this money, whether it is rich or poor or medium-sized. There are currently very few countries in Europe that apply wealth differentiation in this area, and often there is a problem that the centres most affected are those whose families most often have children. But once again: Estonia should fight for all children and for all families, whether they are rich, poor or medium.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U42	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You indicated in your presentation that many girls born during the singing revolution have gone missing. You also mentioned that the first children were born in the early 1990s, and now much less is born. What's the reason? How do you comment on that? And the second question. The subject of abortion was not covered at all in your report. Do you think that abortion and the attitude to abortions have no impact on the topic you dealt with, or why wasn't it included in your report in statistics or other forms?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U44	Thank you for your question. Where are the people of Estonia going? The exodus is behind this physical loss. The question is, will these people ever come back? The issue of Estonian women has been much discussed in the media. What do we know about Estonian women? In fact, more men go out, but the difference is that Estonian women do not return. Men come back, but women and families may not come. Why is that? Both migration and human behaviour are influenced by a number of different factors. One of the differences that greatly contribute to the choice of countries is support for families. If we can proudly declare to the world that we support the child properly during his first year of life and come all to live in Estonia, then after that we can no longer do so. And in addition to many other factors, families take that into account. The birth rate has indeed decreased compared to the 1990s. Why? The reasons behind this are the same. Those concerns that have plagued people in recent years were also seen on one slide. In the mid - 1990's, when our birth rate was even lower, economic causes were more affected. At the same time, child benefit was relatively high. At present, child benefit is the lowest of 2% of the average wage in the period of independence. We have had a time when this figure was 8%. But of course, that connection isn't one-to-one. I really didn't deal with abortions. But in the case of abortions, these are unwanted children. So this is about contraception, teaching family planning. The question is also that people do not really want to have children. They want to have sex, but they don't want kids. In principle, abortion is accepted in today's world, but in itself it is not good and desirable. What must be done? You must act responsibly and use contraception. If we think that abortion is an unwanted child, then the logic is that we ban abortion, so we have more children, not working well. They're still unwanted kids.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U45	Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In addition to the general trend of population decline, we also have a low birth rate. Your slide showed that the current relatively large number of women will soon be followed by a very steep fall in this figure. Have you analyzed or modeled that if such a low birth rate persists, what happens in the development of our population, for example, in the next 20 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U47	Thank you for your question. The question is about the population forecast. Yes, I have done so myself; one forecast is in the 2011 Estonian Human Development Report. Since the results of the census changed our data on the age of people living in Estonia, Statistics Estonia is about to make a new forecast. However, if we respond very briefly, it is now known that since the decrease in the number of children affects the entire population structure, we are starting to lose our relationship between the working age and the rest of the population from 2019. After about 10 years, the total number of children will decrease further. This affects the needs of kindergartens and schools. The number of children in different age groups will change again after 20 to 30 years. 20 to 30 years is, of course, a very long time from the perspective of the population forecast. The main trends of migration may also change during this period. I would also like to say that we really do have a decrease in the number of children, which gives a signal to all institutions dealing with children, but this reduction is not endless. At some point, this low level will stabilize.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U48	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U49	Thank you. Thank you very much for your very good presentation. You rightly pointed out in your answer to the question of Priit Sibula that the right to kill a child, rather the timing, is a matter of social agreement. I am asking a much simpler question about a social agreement. How big is a family with many children? In Estonia, a family with at least three children is considered to be many children. In many countries this principle has been abandoned, for example, Sweden is paying the support of a family of many children to a family of two children. So far, we have been based on the view of population scientists that there is a family with at least three children. Do you think that this principle should also be changed in the light of concrete facts in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U50	Thank you for your question. The problem here is, of course, how many children the state pays the support of a family with many children. As I said, the problem with Estonia is that it does not want to have the first child. In fact, over the years, we have gradually moved down the line of a large family. After all, there were times when at least five or four children were called families. I wouldn't mind getting enough support from a two-child family. But the greatest concern is still the lack of birth of the first children. Once again, if there are no first children, there are no other and no third children. The number of early children has fallen the most. The fact that childhood is not fashionable in Estonia is already a long-term trend. But since the first kids aren't in fashion, there's a very big sign of danger, because that's where the whole bad situation starts. At the beginning of the 1990s, they tried to comfort themselves that it was only a delay in having a child. But 25 years can't delay childbirth. At this point, it is also clear that our ultimately lower number of children also means, in the long term, that unwanted childlessness is a bigger problem for Estonia than it has been so far. In international comparison, we have so far been in a relatively good position, a figure of around 10%. In poorer countries, it is estimated that a quarter of potential parents will never have children for various reasons. If we were a larger country, we would also be an immigration country, and this immigration would make us happy, then perhaps that would not be a problem. But we are a relatively small country, and we have a certain retention instinct that does not approve of mass immigration. This is a place of very serious thinking. We need to be careful in this area and we need to think this through carefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U51	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U52	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said we had basically only five years to make a big difference. What is your recommendation number one that family policy should do to increase birth rates?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U53	Thank you for your question. As I pointed out on several occasions, family policy is largely about giving people signals. Let's take the year 2013. Over the long term, a number of decisions were taken in the area of family policy. The problem may be that they're not very weighty. People may not fully understand what is happening or see the very direct benefits of these changes. Personally, I am in favour of increasing child support. Once again, this is a measure that is perfectly understandable to people, and I believe that it will have a number of positive effects in any case. Another thing to focus on is that in some years, the government's ability to show that it really cares about families has been neglected. This should be dealt with much more. As far as concrete measures are concerned, we are doing very well with the payment of parental benefit at the beginning of the child's life. It can be placed in a directory of positive operations. The question, however, is what happens later. People still expect family benefits. This is an expensive measure, I understand, but it is very much needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U54	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U55	Thank you! Madame waitress, I'd like to ask your opinion on this matter. I'll explain a little bit. After all, man is basically a logical creature. Looking back further into history, we see that in difficult times there were many children in families when societies became richer, the number of children became smaller. Even my grandparents had a dozen children. Do you share this understanding that there is no direct linear relationship between financial support or wealth and the number of children? Or do you think that there will be an increase in the number of children when parents receive financial support from the state? Is this problem solved, or are things a little more complicated?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U56	Thank you for your question. We all know that there are certain countries in today's world, such as Africa, where people live very poor, but there are many children. Europe is certainly richer, but there are few children. Why is that? The first answer to the demographers is that they are entirely different cultures in terms of demographic behaviour. One extreme is many births and many deaths. We're just like in another demographic time. If you come closer to economic reasons, the explanation for this is that children have become more expensive. We compare Africa and Estonia. If we think about the price of the so-called child in Estonia 200 or 100 years ago and now, there is a big difference. Understanding how much to invest in a child and what requirements should be taken into account when acquiring a child, such as school-related costs, whether a child has to have boots in winter and, if so, how much time a parent has to spend on the child, whether the child can be delivered alone for a day or a week, whether he or she should be put to work when he or she is young, has changed greatly. In fact, the price of the child has risen enormously for the parent. That's what Gary Becker said, who received the Nobel Prize for this theory. So the key word is, yes, the price of a child. And since the price of a child is constantly rising for parents, it should be even more compensated. Centuries ago, almost all children had sex relations, and children came, whether they wanted it or not. Today, you can plan to have a child, and people have very different choices. In some ways, it's not bad, some people are better suited to raising children than others. It is not a crime in itself if children are not recommended. But from the state's point of view, the more people choose to have children, the better. We want Estonian families not to be poor and unhappy, but to be well managed. We want everyone to have children. However, the child is expensive and it is wise to compensate for it at both national and local level.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U57	Dear Senior Researcher Mare Ainsaar, I thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Marge Undi, senior researcher of Tallinn University!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U58	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I will speak in my presentation on how to support the birth and growth of children. So I'll pick up where Mare ended up. I will focus mainly on what we have very well, that Estonia wants to have children, and I will try to give an overview of who then wants more children and why they do not realise their wishes. But first, a word about context. Clearly, our population's growth is negative. Since 2005, there are over 65 years of age in Estonia than there are under 14 years of age. One of the most drastic changes, however, which Mare pointed out, is that the first children will be born later. I say this in the background so that we know where we come from and where other countries are now. This slide shows the age of the first-born during the 1960-2010 period. It can be seen that at the beginning of the 1990s, 22 were more or less the last tax rate in Estonia, but this age has risen very quickly, and now the average age of the newborn is already 26 years old. However, when we look at what is happening in southern Europe, western Europe and northern Europe, we see that there are many births in northern Europe, but the average age of the firstborn is much higher than that of us. If there is no major change in social life, we too may be expected to go in the direction that the average age of the firstborn is increasing. This is something that is difficult to change, and as Mare pointed out, it has its side effect: a large number of people who decide to have a child at a later age simply cannot or will need artificial insemination or other very expensive measures to make this desire come true. Another very important drawing to characterize the context, which I want to introduce, comes from the census. In 2011, there was the last census. Here you can see in which households children of different ages live in Estonia. As you can see, the younger the children, the greater the probability that their parents are in a common-law relationship. And to which I particularly want to draw attention: the older children, the majority of them grow up with one parent. There is also a bit of an answer to why the risk of poverty for children in Estonia is the lowest when the child is small. There are several reasons. One thing is that our allowances for parental benefits, birth grants are targeted at young children. Another is that as a baby, most children live in a family with both parents. This context must also be taken into account when we think about how to develop measures. The following is a presentation of the study that we carried out on behalf of the Minister of Population's Office. It dates back to 2008, but since no such analysis has been carried out since then, perhaps there is reason to give an overview of it. Trends in attitudes do not change rapidly, and it is expected that these trends will be largely valid today, five years later. This figure shows how many children people think could be in the Estonian family, how many should necessarily be and how many are wanted. The main message is that children are still wanted. To the question of how many children could be in the Estonian family, 47% replied that three in 2008. They thought that such a family would be ideal for Estonia. It's actually a lot. If we take the average for all respondents, it was 2.59 children. For the minimum that should be in the Estonian family, most thought that two children. More than two children are wanted in the middle, and this figure has slightly decreased compared to 1999. It's pretty interesting what caused this fall. The point is that in 2008, people without children wanted fewer children in the middle than in 1999. Families already had children wanted more or less the same number of children in 1999 and 2008 to their families, it did not matter. Thus, it is people without children who have started to want fewer offspring for themselves. At the same time, it is interesting that when we looked at the data for 1999, they reflected in the same way that the childless wanted much less children than families with children. When we looked at the age group that had grown older by then in 2008, they were no longer different. Perhaps this is a hypothesis that I cannot prove that the data are cross-sectional, does not reflect the thinking of individual people, which may change, but perhaps it might suggest that if a child is born into the family, it changes the attitude towards children. People change the view of how much they want children, and the number of children in Estonia seems to be increasing. Let's take a closer look at how many children we want. We can see that a well - favored family with two children is well - favored. Nearly half say that there could be two children, and there is more to one child than in 1999. At the same time, it is very interesting what people who want one child think of the number of children in one middle family in Estonia: they confirm that there could be at least two or three children in the family. Yeah, I've got less, but the others could have more. At the same time, one in four said that he wanted to have three children. Which was very interesting: among those families where there were already two children, the third child wanted more in 2008 than in 1999. So in the middle, fewer offspring are wanted, but families with children were more optimistic in 2008. Perhaps it was also the case that 1999 was the period immediately following the Russian crisis, where small generations of birth had also been ahead, but in 2008 people did not yet perceive the depth of the economic crisis. Eventual behaviour and wishes are clearly linked to the economic situation. We now compare the number of children we want and the number of children in the group during the survey. In the case of Estonia, it is striking that Estonian men want less children than women. According to Kaja Oras, before the 1990s, Estonian men wanted more children. I can't tell you why this has changed, but both the 1999 and 2008 surveys showed that men somehow didn't want children. I mean, you did, you wanted more than two kids, you wanted more than a birth rate, but it was much less than the women who wanted more. When we look at what groups wanted under two children in their family, we see that they were childless, single, divorced, and widowed. But as I said, people without children can change that view in their lives. It was clear that Estonians want more children on average, and in Estonian families there are more children in the middle than in families of people of other nationalities. If I move on from here to here, I would like to explain what people are saying about the reason for the delay in having a child. It is important to draw attention to a few facts relating to the methodology of the study, which are important to know: this study was carried out in the population of 20 to 40 years of age. So we are talking about the perspective of people aged 20 to 40. The whole of Estonia was represented. We made 25 claims. When people said they wanted children, but not in the next three years, we asked why. There were 25 statements in the letter and they were able to answer whether they considered what they asked to be important, very important or not important at all. Next, I will tell you what were the reasons. For example, when a person did not have children, what prevented him from having the first child. We saw from the drawing that the age of the firstborn has risen. There is a problem in Estonia that we do not have the first children. What do 20-40-year-olds without children make of this? Here the answers are ranked according to what was most called. And very clearly, personal factors prevail: no partner, feeling young yet, wanting to develop. These are reasons that are very difficult to do. The only reason the respondents pointed out was that there were no suitable living conditions. What, though, did people who had a child but who did not plan on having another child over the next three years find themselves hindered? In their case, the picture was very different. I would like to point out that when selecting from the list of responses given, the main reason for the country's economic support was not too low. That was about 20. However, it really turned out that economic problems are an obstacle to the birth of a second or third child. Poor childcare facilities were also highlighted. It is very important that childcare is better organised. If we look at the barriers to the acquisition of a third child, they are very similar to those mentioned in the case of another child. The order is a little different, but the principle is very similar. The perception is that the loans are too high, the state support is low and the care of children is not sufficiently guaranteed. There was also an opportunity to formulate some problems freely. In this box, a transitional period has just been introduced after the parental benefit has ended. Parental benefit may end in the middle of the year, but in kindergarten groups are formed once a year. How could this transition be smooth? Since this is the responsibility of local governments, the provision of kindergarten places varies from place to place. Some of the satisfaction with child support measures. It stood out that the least people were satisfied with child support. In 2008, only 3% of the population aged 20 to 40 thought that this support was sufficient, all the others considered that it should be higher. In 2013, EMOR carried out a survey of the population as a whole. Of the respondents, 2% confirmed that the child benefit was sufficient, all the rest claimed that it could not be satisfied. When we asked for different grants, none of the respondents in the 2008 survey had responded to 700 did not say that there was no need for direct financial support. The need was perceived, and everyone thought it was important. We also asked about various measures, services, subsidies, some of which exist, some of them not. In addition to the existing measures, the majority also considered free food in kindergarten to be very important, as well as the availability of a kindergarten place. If we come to the parental benefit, in 2008 the maximum rate was 25209 kroons, and 13% said that the maximum rate could be higher, then it is almost one in six. Two thirds felt that this ceiling could be lower. We put forward various arguments that people may or may not have agreed to. It wasn't like I should have picked one or the other. We were amazed that when we put forward arguments that should rule out each other, people still agreed. They agreed that parental benefit could be dependent on prior service and that it could be a fixed amount. One conclusion that could be drawn from this is that the parental benefit system has been very well received and is considered important for its survival. But how exactly could it be calculated, there aren't such clear views about it. Maybe it also depends on how and in what context to ask. Now for the conclusion. In 1979, French philosopher Lyotard said that the great narratives were dead. I think it is remarkable that in Estonia at least this narrative, so that we can have large families, is not dead. This opinion is shared by many, and it is something that can go on. Estonian people want children. At the same time, it is clear that women's education is much longer, and the parental benefit system also supports the desire to get their feet off the labour market first. It delays the birth of the first child. At the same time, when we think about barriers, I think it is very important to have a human perspective on what they see. At least in 2008, the study found that the barriers to giving birth to the first child and to the next children are fundamentally different. I do not want to say that, from the point of view of giving birth to the first child, subsidies and services are not necessary at all, but just maybe they can be taken less into account. Estonia is now a very important era. We have large generations of births, and although it is sad to see that few children are born in some years, these are not really indicators for one, two or three years, but what matters is how many children these women give birth to during their lives. The number of children born throughout their lives is important. In this sense, Estonia currently has a huge opportunity and resource. In Italy, for example, that time has already passed. We still have these great generations at the age of child acquisition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U59	Good waitress, thank you very much for your presentation. You have questions too. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U60	Thank you, dear waitress, for a very interesting and constructive presentation. One of the reasons that prevents the birth of the first children was that there is no suitable partner. Was it more of a problem for men or women, and did they give further reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U61	It was pointed out by both men and women, but I have to admit, I can't remember if the difference was significant. However, this was an important reason for both. During the census in 2011, we looked at the household structure. If we compare the 2000 and 2011 census data, we will see that the number of households had increased very much in ten years. But what are these households like? Very many women in childbirth live alone. We have had a huge increase in the number of people living alone. In our study, however, we also asked, for example, what is important in choosing a partner. There came up with classical factors, but sometimes it is of interest that many men made it clear that it was very important for them to have a woman's appearance. There were exceptions, but in the middle, the main criterion was this, the other things were less important. In the case of women, it stood out that a partner is very demanding, that he meets a wide range of conditions. Women were at least more demanding in theory when choosing a partner.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U62	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! After the Northern War, there were 100,000 people in Estonia, 200,000 in 100 years, we became a million people, and the number of people multiplied. I've been asking several population scientists what happened. Don't we have anything to take over from this period by using historical wisdom? I have not received a clear answer to that. Maybe that's a key question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U64	Thank you for your question. Mare Ainsaar has already pointed out today that basically society has changed. In the last fifty years, the greatest change has been that women have entered the labour market. Gender segregation is known to be greater in countries where women work more and smaller in countries where women are more at home with children. In Germany, many mothers take care of their children themselves, but in Sweden, for example, there are a lot of baby-sitter jobs for women who take care of other children. However, when we look at birth rates, it is clear that more and more women want to work. In Germany, their system has led to the fact that women with higher education do not have much children. They either have to postpone their child for a long time and eventually will not be biologically able to do so, or this is an informed choice. In Germany, 40% of women with higher education have no children. I know a couple of colleagues who got a professorship. Now that they're in this position, they want kids, but they just can't anymore. This state of affairs is not over or over, and the experience of the Northern War is not very helpful. When looking at the European picture, it can be said that it has helped if women can reconcile their work with family life and if there are very good support measures. The higher birth rates are precisely in those countries where they are very well interlinked.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U65	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U66	Thank you very much for your presentation. I ask about the slide that reflected the reasons for delaying the birth of the first child, or the problems that Mare Ainsaar described as the most important. The reasons for this were a lack of partner, youth, a desire to further develop, a sense of responsibility and limited living conditions. The country really can't do much about knowing it when it's young, but maybe there's some way she can come to help with all the other questions. Do you consider it right, for example, that only two lessons from 1,700 are devoted to creating a family, having children in the entire national curriculum in the upper secondary school section? Or how to interpret, for example, the fact that the housing per capita has increased by a quarter according to the last census, but that having children has decreased with reference to a small dwelling? What would it be like if these living conditions were still to be good?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U67	Thank you for your question. As far as the curriculum is concerned, I can't rely on research here, I can just tell you how I feel about it as a private person. When I went to Viljandi to perform for the teachers in Viljandi, 500 teachers were present and several later came to talk to me. One of the things they brought out was that they felt that more should be said about the family, not just about preventing pregnancy. It upset a lot of people. A male physics teacher told me that he was very impressed when his 10-year-old son came home from school with a condom. The school had been a lecture on contraception. He said that he thought it was an entirely unhealthy interest, and it was much more important to raise value: the present boys must take responsibility in the future. Having a child is more than just some physical act. In conclusion, I very much support this proposal, but I cannot rely on any research right now. The second part of the question concerned the problem of housing. In the context of the current economic crisis, where it is harder to borrow and more difficult for young people to find work, it must be acknowledged that it is still very difficult to get a first place. We know very well that the rental market in Estonia is very small. We are comparing even with the Nordic countries, where the share of owners is much lower: we still have a very large share of owners and a very modest rental market, which makes this first leap very difficult. I don't quite agree with what else they want. I think you can see the neck of the bottle in the numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U68	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U69	Thank you! Your previous speaker pointed out that the sign of danger was just delaying the birth of the first child. You explained in your report that the reasons for this are not so much material as there is no partner of a personal nature, it is necessary to complete education, make a career, etc. Among the material reasons you pointed out, as I understand it, that perhaps the most decisive factor today is the provision of childcare, not so much child support. Should we not focus our attention on ensuring childcare in the country as a whole in future? It would not be a national programme, it would be primarily the responsibility of local authorities. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U70	The first part of the question concerned the issue of the first child. It is indeed a transformation of values that is taking place throughout Europe. In all European countries, only France is on the verge of being below the level of recovery. Similarly, in countries that have been considered to be countries with a decent population, values have simply changed. We have great potential in Estonia, but we want many children. I don't know if you noticed when I showed you how many people say they don't want kids at all. There were a few percent in 1999 and 4% in 2008. Elsewhere, these percentages are very much higher, not in all countries, but in Poland, for example. If I'm not mistaken, I think it was 15%. In this sense, we kind of go along with general developments, but on the other hand, our society still has a very strong desire to have children. In this sense, we are an interesting country. As far as childcare is concerned, services to reconcile work and family life appear to be essential. From the point of view of the family, it is vital that both parents go to work, as the risk of poverty increases considerably if one of the parents stays at home. Such support measures are very necessary and childcare is undoubtedly one of them. For children aged three years and older, things are better because there are more or less plenty of kindergarten places, but there are also problems with them. The most difficult situation arises when the parent's benefit expires. A great deal of this was brought out as an obstacle. You can see how hard it is for people you know. According to European studies, it is also a problem that if there are concerns about friends and familiar children, difficulties in reconciling work and family life, this step is not to be taken by itself. In this sense, these services are terribly needed, and I very much agree with that. If we look at the relevant figures in Estonia, we have most children in kindergarten before school. This percentage has increased lately. However, some children are at home because in kindergarten the cost of a family is much higher. It is also cheaper to go to school at first because you have to pay for food and place in kindergarten, but both the place and the food are free of charge in primary school. At the beginning of the year, we travelled through Estonia with educators, and we had 15 regional seminars planned for one project. For example, in Saaremaa, it was confirmed that even though they know people who live behind the forest, they have kindergarten places to offer them, but these people simply treasure it too much and keep their children at home. However, its impact is passed on to school: these children do not have sufficient training and are not doing well in the first grade. In this sense, it is important to ensure that all children can go to kindergarten, including the few who are now at home.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U71	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is unspoken to hear that studies have brought out not only the effects of family benefits but also what is expected of their partners. According to your information, 58% of respondents considered the state's support for children to be low. Do you, the researcher or your university, also know the views of the respondents on the cost segment that these benefits could increase at the expense of? And another particular question. Perhaps you have an overview of other European countries in which countries state subsidies are sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U73	Thank you for your question. In the course of this study, we asked how big the subsidies could be, but we didn't ask where the money could come from. As has been said in this Chamber, EUR 103 million has been allocated from the 2013 budget for child benefit and EUR 170 million for parental benefit. As the survey showed, the parental benefit system has been very well received, but how this money could be distributed was not very clear about it. This is one regulation that you could think about. Perhaps this money should be distributed differently within measures aimed at children. Today, there is a strong focus on the moment of birth and toddlerhood. I looked at the size of the payments for parental benefit in November 2013. The average parental benefit was EUR 757, including the mother's average payment of EUR 723 and the father's average payment of EUR 1307. At the maximum rate, 3.9% of recipients receive parental benefit, while 12% of this 170 million receive parental benefit. It really is a question of options on how to share this money and where to get more of it if necessary. However, this was not directly addressed by our study.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U74	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U75	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your thorough review. It is very good that political decisions concerning the population and the raising of children are made on the basis of studies. It's too bad they don't order that much of the research. The situation has certainly changed since 2008; it was still a good time when the economic crisis had not been felt. But here's my question. However, it is a sign of danger that many families, including families with an older child, are single parents. A child who grows under the care of one parent and sees that problems with paying for school meals in upper secondary school are not cost-free, nor is it able to cope at all, dare to have a family, to have children. Can such a situation affect the spread of such an attitude?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U76	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U77	Thank you for your question. I myself have not done such studies, nor have I read other studies about Estonia. They have been made for example in Germany. There is more focus on children who have grown up in a poor family, often a single - parent family. These people really have fewer children of their own than average, both wanting and having fewer offspring. At the same time, because of the lack of money, they also have a poorer education and a worse job. It is such an impact on many levels that is passed on to life, and this has been very clearly demonstrated in studies in other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U78	Thank you. I had one statistical figure left in my ear from your interesting report: that men's desire to have children is smaller than in the 1990s. You said it was difficult to justify it scientifically, but do you think it is a problem for Estonia alone or for the whole of Europe? And yet, what could have been the reason that in the 1990s, this was a greater man's wish? I see here an indirect link with people's claim that they can't find a partner. These things are definitely in some kind of indirect relationship. Can you be more specific?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U79	Thank you for your question. I have not seen any data on this in other European countries. It has been pointed out in the literature that in a traditional society men want more children than women do. That's what I read in literature. But what is happening now in different European countries, unfortunately, I do not know how to comment. As for the changes in Estonia, I can only assume that I have no other basis. Perhaps it is true that women continue their education longer. In 1992, we had an equal share of men and women in higher education. Half the students were male and half were female. Thereafter, the proportion of women started to increase, in the meantime almost two thirds of female students. Now it's slightly reduced, the figure is 60%. When we look at the finaliters, we see that female students have graduated more successfully. In this sense, educational scissors have grown in the younger generation. Maybe it supports your hypothesis, but yes, actually I don't have a good answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U80	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U81	Thank you, good waitress, for interesting information! 13 November An article was published in the Eesti Päevaleht, which you have certainly read. This is an interview with Professor of Demography at Stockholm University, Livia Oláh, who pointed out different aspects, but basically it remained that the possibilities for reconciling work and family life most influence the birth rate. The most important are kindergarten places. At the same time, he gave examples that trends in Europe are very different. For example, 40% of women in Germany with higher education are without children, a career is considered to be more important, while Sweden is very popular with highly educated women that they have three children. What direction is this trend heading in Estonia now? Do women with higher education want to have more children than before, or are we heading towards Germany? After all, one idea of parental benefit is that highly educated and wealthier women do not delay having a child.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U82	I can use the 2008 survey, so it's five years ago. It was clear that women with higher education wanted children, just some of them delayed their motherhood. Now it's a question of how to proceed. The future will provide the answer. That's one of the reasons I thought maybe it was wise to be here before Santa Claus. This is the big question mark right now. It doesn't matter what the birth rate of a given year is, what matters is what happens to this generation when the births of these women are over. There is no such answer yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U83	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U84	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good waitress! You answered my previous question that we don't have much to learn from history, we have to look at today. When this formation came together and the Committee on Economic Affairs held its first meeting, our three fine women decided that the most important thing was the person in the economy, and they had all three of them born in that two year period. Very good! But has it been studied how the role model of society's leaders is influenced by well-known politicians, business people and cultural figures? Does the way they plan their family affect the people? Suddenly, the leaders should start making children, and the Estonian population is growing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U85	Thank you. This has been shown by research, even by immensely old studies, that the example is contagious. In this sense, it is very important. However, in Germany, many female leaders have children, so the link is not so uniform. But no doubt the role model is contagious. It turned out amazingly from our data that we all share the understanding that there could be many children in our family in Estonia, but unfortunately this does not materialise. Actually, we need that trigger to make it happen. It's great when it becomes a reality for more and more people. I've got three little kids myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U86	Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U87	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much for a very interesting presentation. My question is how to really contribute to the birth of these first children. Of course, I consider it important that all children are born, including the second, third, etc. The study showed that the first children are not born because young families do not have the opportunity to acquire separate housing. Housing is really expensive in Estonia, the rental market is small and the chances of obtaining loans are not very good for young people. Can't the state, following the example of neighbouring countries, create a state-owned residential rental market so that young families can rent housing on a favorable basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U88	Thank you for your question. If you look at the data on people's wishes, it seems to me that this is a good solution. Really, that's what they want. That would be very helpful.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U89	Please, colleague Priit onion, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In reply to Liisa Pakosta, you referred to the conference in Viljandi and to the amazement of a teacher when her child came home from school with a condom. But I'm curious about that. You also spoke about values and indicated that more money might not mean more children. These processes are much more complex. If you look back in history, our colleague tried to find solutions in the period after the Northern War, aren't our expectations too high? We are assigning more and more tasks to society, hoping to get support from it, but history clearly proves that if the responsibility for the well-being and future of ourselves and the family was our own, then there were more children in the families. When we started demanding kindergartens, free food for children, more child support, etc., fewer and fewer children began to be born into families.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U91	Thank you for your question. As far as expectations of society are concerned, we had a question in the survey, that was again the year 2008 of our own, whether raising children is a purely family matter. We had the same question in 1999. In 2008, 15% thought it was a purely family matter, while the rest felt that it was not just an internal family matter. As regards the relationship between the existence of money and the birth rate, it seems to me that without state support it is not possible to reconcile work and family life well and to guarantee a certain sense of security. Children are delayed and less born. However, even if we channel more money into this area, I do not dare to say that the birth rate will really increase. Other processes that develop in society are also important. If the economy gets worse, if our liberal labour market shrinks and there are fewer jobs, then of course people will react to it and look at the wider picture. The overall good economic standing and optimism are very much affected. In conclusion, however, I would argue that if we do not change something in the family benefit system, we will not be effective in providing good services, then we will not have to expect an increase in the birth rate. We have to decide whether or not to take the risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U92	And probably the last question. Please, Mr Olga Soldier, your second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U93	Thank you, Madam President. Quick question for you to have time to answer. One of the things we didn't touch here is the same-sex partners. Children also live in these families. Officially, there are not many, there are about 460 children, as the last census showed. Do you think our child benefit system and the general social attitude will promote the full life of these children and help them to cope in our society?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U94	Thank you for your question. I have to admit, I don't know because I haven't analyzed it. So, unfortunately, I owe you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U95	The time for questioning is up. Thank you for Marge Unt's report and your answer to the questions. I invite Urve Palo, a member of the Social Democratic Party Group, to give the next presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U96	Good afternoon. Madame Chairwoman! Ladies and gentlemen, especially the brave ones sitting in this Chamber! On 30 August 2005, Eesti Päevaleht Rein Taagepera published an article entitled "Demographic toilet," where Professor Emeritus warned us that if the birth rate did not increase, we would attract ourselves. A good professor then said that there were many women in childbirth then, and said that if birth rates do not increase, then there will be fewer of those who are going to give birth, and so our population will continue to decline. This piece of writing received much attention and the image of the demographic toilet used in its title is used from time to time. Sadly, however, the emeritus professor's concerns remain the voice of the shouter in the desert. Eight years later, we are not in a better position, but in an even worse situation. When 14819 children were born in Estonia in 2005, I remind you that before the 1990s there were 22000 and more births in Estonia, then 765 children were born in the previous year less than in 2005 and 152 children were born in the 10 months of this year less than in the previous year. So the birth rate keeps decreasing. The dream that we could come out of the demographic toilet if we were to do so is not simply missed, but the situation is much worse than it was eight years ago. The birth rate has decreased in absolute numbers as well as in women of childbearing potential. What is rotten in Estonia, why are children not born? Unfortunately, I hear very often, I have to admit, an incompetent discussion on the issue of whether it is because we have few women of childbearing age or because there is a huge problem with the birth rate across Europe, which we will have to do. Fortunately, or unfortunately, the first plea is not true. We have already heard of this today that many women of childbearing age still exist because of the many generations born in the 1970s and 1980s. The second plea is a half-sister. It is true that the birth rate is very low in most southern European countries and also in the former Soviet Union republics. But in the Nordic countries, France and Ireland, the birth rate per woman is much higher than in Estonia, reaching a little over or just under two children's women against 1.5 children in Estonia. Is this a coincidence? I don't think so. I'm sure of it. Years ago, as Minister of Population, I met with the Swedish Minister for Social Affairs and asked him how they had managed to establish and maintain a stable and strong family policy for decades. He replied that it had been agreed that, regardless of whether there is a right-wing or a left-wing government, family policy is party-wide and family confidence is not played. Thus, in Sweden, family benefits account for more than 3% of the country's GDP. Similar orders of magnitude are available in all other high birth rates Member States of the European Union, where family benefits are allocated 2.5% to 3.5% of GDP, depending on the country. Let it be added, among other things, that universal child support of considerable size is applied in all these countries and that reconciliation between family life and work is encouraged. In Estonia, in 2005, when Rein Taagepera wrote his article, 1% of GDP was allocated to family benefits, but now we have reached a situation where 0.5% of GDP is allocated to this. Of course, you can add parental benefit to these benefits, but even then our level will be 1.4%, or several times lower than in the countries that set an example for us. What else has happened since August 2005 when Rein Taagepera, in his famous article, warned us about the demographic toilet, what good things have been done for families? On 17 September 2008, three years after the publication of this article, Postimees published Prime Minister Andrus Ansip's thoughts on child benefits: "I am saying that it would be socially fair if 20 percent of children were to receive much more support from all taxpayers and 80 percent who do not need this support should not receive 300 kroons. " So, first of all, there is a message at Prime Minister level that universal subsidies may disappear at all, so there is no point in talking about their rise. However, given the fact that there are 256000 children in Estonia who receive child support, the statement of the Head of Government means that over 200000 children, or 205000 children, should forget the support of the state at all. Did such an opinion increase family confidence tomorrow? Absolutely not. Secondly, so the universal child allowance for the first and second children has been 19.18 euros for ten years, yet the size of the state budget has tripled in the meantime. Studies carried out by Emor in November show that only 2% of respondents consider the current amount of support to be fair and 81% of respondents believe that this support should be higher than EUR 39 per month. What else has been done? Third, the income tax refund was abolished since the first child of the family. Fourthly, the subsidy was abolished. Fifth, 80% of the parent's salary is reimbursed instead of 100% in the event of a child's illness. Sixthly, in addition to child support, the school food allowance paid by the state to the municipalities until the children's comprehensive school is completed is in place as a broken clock, and the upper secondary school children must be provided with a wallet for the parents who have eaten. Seventh, the program "Every Child's Kindergarten Place" was lost. Although the state budget has improved significantly compared to the years of the economic downturn, none of the above measures has been restored. Eighthly, although it was promised that children's recreational benefit would be paid next year, it was decided at the last moment that it would still not come. But what positive has been done? Firstly, the support of the third and next children of the family has been raised, so now 9% of our children receive more support than EUR 19.18. But only 9%. Secondly, within ten working days, paternity leave is now granted before or after the birth of the child. It must also be said that child support has been transformed into basically poverty support, as the EUR 19.18 allowance for the first and second children of the family can only be applied for by families living below the limit of relative poverty. Taking all this into account, it is no wonder that the birth rate in Estonia is showing an increasing trend in decline and emigration. In particular, they go to countries where higher wages are paid, but in addition they care about people and contribute several times as much as our GDP to the well-being of families with children. Speaking to emigrated people, it has become apparent that the reason for not returning to Estonia is more and more, the fact that society offers people in these countries a greater sense of security tomorrow. We here, however, can be proud that we are contributing 2% of GDP to national defence as a rich country, and by putting together the budget we are well-stricken and indirect tax raisers. That's how we look from afar. National defence must, of course, be contributed and state accounts must also be in order, but we will not be able to maintain this balance in the perspective if new taxpayers and economic contributors are not born. There's no reason to protect the country if there's no one to protect. There is a sad situation in Estonia where the country is run by accountants who look at everything from a short-term cost-benefit perspective. The need-based approach is becoming a new fashion word, and there have already been proposals to make even school lunch support needs-based. Without wanting to reduce the hard work of accountants, however, it must be admitted that the head of the company is put by the owners, not by an accountant, but by a visionary, a manager who can see a more distant perspective and who can and dares to invest now so that the company can make a profit in the future. However, as long as the government treats us as a great expense, not an investment, to contribute to the future generation, there is no reason to expect positive changes in birth behaviour. From those who support "need-based child benefit," I ask, but why not also a need-based parental benefit, why not only pay parental benefit to families who need it. You're saying it's absurd. I agree. But is the desire to pay child support as needed less absurd? Is it not the case that every child's birth is automatically accompanied by additional monthly costs and needs that only increase as the child grows? Is it not the case that every child is important to the state and the future of Estonia depends on each child, regardless of the parent's status and social status? Where to draw the limit of necessity when the needs exist for each child to be raised? I agree that families living in poverty need to be supported more, but that is where income support is available. Now the answer to those who say that there is no money for child support to rise. At the second reading of the budget, the Social Democrats proposed not to reduce personal income tax by 1% in 2015. This would bring an additional EUR 75 million to the Treasury. This amount would allow the first and second child's allowance to be raised to EUR 48 per month. 1% of the reduction in income tax wins 1 euro for the recipient of the minimum wage, 6 euros for the teacher's circuit and 31 euros per month for the member of the Riigikogu. Do you need this extra income for a member of the Riigikogu? By lowering income tax, we give gifts to high earners, but by paying child support we support all families equally with children, all of them win the same. An increase in child benefit of EUR 48 per month would bring more than EUR 57 per month to the family of two children, a total annual increase of EUR 700 for a family of two children. Unfortunately, our proposal was not suitable for the coalition, which once again proved that it was not about money but about a fundamental attitude. A member of the good Reform Party and the IRL, who I hope you will at least listen to this debate in your office right now! Please look at the state's performance as a visionary! Look at it more widely, please see the woods behind the trees, or the people behind the numbers! The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia states that the task of the Estonian state is to ensure the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages. We have never been as close to re-independence (using Rein Taagepera) as we are now. Ladies and gentlemen, please think about it. It is not too late, as you heard from population scientists. Think more broadly than a coalition agreement, and do not let the worldview prevent us from making wise and forward-looking decisions. I propose to contribute 3% of the national wealth of Estonia to improve the well-being of families with children in each financial year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U97	Thank you! Let's get to the questions. Please, Mr Pikhof, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U98	Thank you for your meaningful presentation. You read the Andrus Ansip quote. He said that 20% of children should receive higher child benefit and 80% of children do not need this support at all. Does this need-based support, currently EUR 9 per child in the first and second family, fulfil this function and help these families out of poverty or alleviate their situation? Could this amount not have been quite different, if it were EUR 57, if the family lived below the limit of relative poverty?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U99	Thank you, good questioner! I am completely incomprehensible to the Prime Minister's statement that 80% of Estonian children do not need support. Where does the Prime Minister get the courage to say something like that? Before this, I think Mare Ainsaar was asked whether our government would take into account the recommendations of scientists. Mare replied very politely that studies would be commissioned, but sometimes scientists' opinions could be taken more into account. This clearly shows that the state is ordering studies and paying a lot of money for them, but the results are not being used. The point is, the result was wrong because it didn't match my opinion. Check it out again! You can't run a country like that. For now, we do not even support 20% of children, for whom the Prime Minister, taken from which light, did not think that they should be supported. We support only 9% of children, those who are third or next in the family. When needs-based child support was developed, it was estimated that there is a need for this support for 30000 families, but this support is currently only available to around 3000 families. This shows that the amount of this subsidy is very small and that it is uncomfortable to apply for it. A person must go every three months to prove his or her poverty, but it is humiliating for people to receive so-called poverty support. I am convinced that the state must do everything in its power to prevent families with children from falling into poverty, so we can also hope that more children will be born. However, if it has happened that the family is living in poverty, income support should be paid. We should also review this support because it is too small.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U100	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U101	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, thank you for your good presentation. I am interested in the issues concerning local authorities. The previous waitresses also recommended providing free food in kindergartens. 91% of respondents have thought that there could also be free catering in kindergarten. As we have heard, many parents do not put children in kindergarten because there is not enough money. There's a double cost in kindergarten, both a place tax and a fee for food. In addition, there are no kindergarten places. How can we solve this problem? The state says that this is a local government problem, and let the municipality solve it, the state will not take any further action to this end. Urve, how do you think this problem could be solved? This should not be too much for the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U102	Thank you, good questioner! As regards the fact that some parents with low incomes do not put children in kindergarten because they are unable to pay a place tax or food money, this is a serious issue. This has been dealt with differently by municipalities. I know that in Viimsi, where I myself have been working as an assistant parent and where the Social Democrats are in power, we have put in place such a measure that uninsured families receive day-care and food free of charge. There were families like this every year and it's around 50 this year. But it's clear that the government's wallet is very thin. The local government's money has been reduced steadily, but the state has given more responsibilities. For example, when I was a minister of the population, the kindergarten program began to work very nicely. This work has been done, the problems have been clarified, the list drawn up and the order of funding and kindergarten construction is all there, all you need to do is put funding behind it. We thought four or five years ago that the country would need to allocate EUR 10 million a year, of course at that time it was EEK 150 million a year. That's a ridiculous amount. If EEK 150 million had been allocated each year, the shortage of kindergarten places would have disappeared within four years. Now no EUR 10 million will be found. It's a matter of will, it's not a matter of money. However, all studies and experience in other countries show that more children are born per woman in countries where female employment is higher. Our behaviour is similar to that of people in the Nordic countries. Our women are also highly educated and want to work. Studies show that if bad experiences are gained by putting the first child in kindergarten, there is less chance that the second or third child will be born at all. It's very important. The state would be able to come here with a little money to help the municipalities very easily. What else have the Social Democrats thought, how could municipalities get rid of more resources for kindergartens? For example, kindergarten teachers could be paid from the state budget. This would exclude that teachers' salaries vary from region to region, as such differences are not fair. The resources resulting from this change could be directed towards the construction and operation of kindergartens.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U103	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U104	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Yesterday, the Minister for Regional Affairs said that the establishment and existence of a minister's position depends on the importance and topical nature of the problems in this area. I am convinced that regional policy is important and topical, and the seat of the Minister for Regional Affairs should certainly be in the cabinet. Do you think that the demographic problems that we are dealing with here today for a long time and with great depth are so important that there should be a minister of population in the cabinet?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U105	I am convinced that it should be because, after all, there is nothing more important. Our constitution also states that the preservation of the Estonian language, mind and nation is the most important. The birth behaviour of the population affects a wide range of fields and activities of different ministries (Ministry of Education and Research, Ministry of Social Affairs, even the Ministry of Justice and Ministry of Defence). There should be a person in the government office who keeps an eye on this area, a minister to whom this information is collapsing. He also provides guidance, for example, that under one law or another, the Minister of Social Affairs or the Minister of Defence must consider that this will affect the birth rate in any way or in any way. We know what will happen if there is no clear responsibility for keeping the subject together. This is the case in every company: if there is no liability, then there is no result to be expected. The position of the Minister of Population was lost in the hope that if there is no human being, there will be no problem. It once again characterises the thinking of our country. I'm not saying this because I'm not in this place anymore. It does not matter, it is important that this issue is on the government table all the time and there is a minister who sometimes, figuratively speaking, would punch on the table and say that, for example, child support must be raised or the kindergarten programme restored, or that more attention needs to be paid to AIDS prevention or any activity affecting population behaviour.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U106	Please, colleague Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! In your presentation, you said that during the procedure of the draft state budget law, you proposed to increase the income tax rate from 2015 and to direct the money from it, EUR 70 million, to increase child support. During the procedure for the draft law on the state budget, your group in the Committee on Monetary Affairs proposed to increase the tax-free minimum in the next three years. In the second year after the increase, the cost of this change would have been EUR 95 million. As a source of cover, you provided for a 1% increase in this same tax rate. Do you have only two or more places to channel the extra money for raising your income tax rate?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U108	I am talking about a very specific proposal that was made just a few weeks ago when there were night sittings. We had a very specific proposal, not as you said, to increase income tax in 2015, but our proposal was not to reduce the income tax rate by 1% and to channel the resources released from it into an increase in family benefits. This is the last proposal of the Social Democrats, which is still on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U109	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U110	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Urve, I thank you and the two previous rapporteurs for giving very constructive and good presentations and good answers to questions. My question is based on this much debated ideological or political confrontation: what are universal child support and what needs-based child support, which is the coalition talking about? Perhaps in this Chamber before Christmas you will remind us all how this system is organised in our neighbouring countries, how it works in Latvia and Lithuania, how it works in Finland and the Scandinavian countries. Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U111	Thank you, good questioner! I even have a table here from countries that could be taken as an example, because the birth rate is much higher there than in Estonia. I can check it out. For example, in Sweden, the universal child benefit rate for the first child is EUR 109, in the case of the second child there is EUR 16, in the case of the third child there is EUR 47, etc. In Denmark, the universal allowance for a child of up to two years is EUR 190, the allowance for a child of three to six is EUR 150 and the allowance for a child of seven to seventeen is EUR 118. In Ireland, the first and second child allowance is EUR 150, the three and the next child allowance is EUR 187. We are talking here about EUR 48 per child! In France, the second child allowance is EUR 123, the third child allowance is EUR 282, etc. Finland is our closest neighbour. The first child's allowance is EUR 100, the second child's allowance is EUR 110, the third child's allowance is EUR 141 and it will continue to rise. It is clear that in those countries with a higher birth rate, universal child benefits are of considerable size. I would argue that if there were child support in Estonia, as parents expect to be three times higher, i.e. the circuit 60 euros per child, we would hear less of this saying that this support is not important and it is not necessary. As long as this support is very small, even marginal, it is also said that it may not be necessary. But if this support is already considerable and the family feels it in their wallets, then the understanding of its need is growing. Someone might start saying that we can't pay as big a grant as I read here. True. This is not what the Social Democrats are expecting, but we are talking, for example, about an extra EUR 60 for a two-child family. Once again, if 3% of GDP is contributed to the well-being of families each year in the countries that set an example for us, then we too could take on the same goal. The sums of money are different, but the purpose is the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U112	Please, Mr Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. However, unlike many forerunners, I do think that there has been a long whining and only a search for mistakes for almost several hours here today on the subject of family benefits. However, this is the last sitting of the Riigikogu before Christmas. Christmas should also be a time of mutual understanding for the coalition and the opposition. Good waitress, do you think you can bring out anything positive about the family benefit system in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U114	Thank you. I think it's right that we have parental benefit. I agree with the previous waitresses so that the principles of payment can be reviewed. I would like this system to be more flexible, for example, towards Mom and Dad and so on. But the principle of parental benefit being valid is very good. This should definitely go on. The state also supports the birth of a child with birth grant in addition to this is very good. I like the restoration of paternity leave from the beginning of this year, which was lost in the meantime, i.e. the possibility of taking paid leave within two months before or after the birth of the child. That's positive. Surely it is not bad that, since the third child of the family, there is more support. But I repeat, it is very important that we also support the first and second children, because otherwise most families simply do not reach the third child. You can't give birth to a third child if the first and second child are not born. We have to start supporting earlier. I think I gave you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U115	Thank you very much, my colleague Urve Palo. As the time for the waitress is up, I ask if there is a wish to negotiate. I guess they really want it. Please start, Heljo Pikhof from the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you to the previous speakers! I don't think they're complaining, it was really relevant, and the reports were very thorough. In words, i.e. in all kinds of development plans, the government expects the birth rate to be 1.71 by 2015. The sad fact is, however, that while in 2010 only 1.64 children were born for women of childbearing potential, in 2012 only 1.58 children were born. No matter what social policy measures we take, a change in birth rate it does not yet promise, all the more so in order for the population to recover, the birth rate should be 2.1. At the same time, the country will not last long if children are not born. Nor does it inspire hope that the age of women at the time of the first child's birth has increased. If women push their desire to have a child into the later days, and if their confidence does not grow later, children will never be born. The consequence is that the Estonian state and Estonian language and culture are moving rapidly towards sunset. As the previous speakers have already said, the most burning concern in Estonia right now is that even the first child will not be born into the family. When we look at the graphs made by population scientists, we see that the birth rate of the first child has fallen into freefall in the last three years. My colleague, Urve Palo, listed a number of measures to support families with children, which have been lost in the haze of cutting, but there is nothing tangible for families with one or two children. It doesn't make you think about raising your family. The fact that more than 650 children were born last year compared to last year is particularly regrettable in the light of the fact that we are currently at the top of the number of women of childbearing age. Demographic processes are a long one, and over the next few years, the generation of young women reaching birth age will be greatly reduced. So there are much worse times ahead. We have competent research into why we will not have many children. After all, there has been a desire to have two or three children in the Estonian family for generations. The main reasons why this desire is not realised can be ranked as follows: insufficient material support from the state, poor childcare facilities and the fear of failing to provide children with a good and up-to-date education. The government knows all of this well. Tunamull was completed at the Ministry of Social Affairs "Children's and Families' Development Plan 2012 Women don't give birth to the state, children are born when Mom and Dad are ready. If there is no confidence that the state can rely on support in a difficult situation, it is too often a language of weight, why the family chooses to limit itself to one child, or if children are not born. Focusing solely on supporting young children will not produce the desired results. After all, children and young people who are already growing up in Estonia must also be raised to be human. Every single step that we can take now to support the needy young people, which we do not yet take, hampers children's development prospects and prospects for the future. Three and a half years ago, the Social Democrats emphasised this right here in the Riigikogu when we brought measures to alleviate child poverty to this debate as an important national issue. If the natural development of a child is limited to one quarter, not to mention one or two years of development, it will paralyze the development of a young person and may leave the incurable wounds of his soul for the rest of his life. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U117	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U118	After all, the development plan for children and families explicitly states that every cent we now contribute to children will later benefit us in the form of better health and education, and ultimately economic development. Yes, we have a state birth grant and one and a half years of parental benefit, after which state support is merely marginal. Yet, as the child grows, expenses for him also increase. The development plan recommends, above all, contributing to the creation of an environment conducive to child growth, including more flexible labour market measures, better reconciliation of family life and work and the creation of new kindergarten places. There's paper, but there's no action. The development plan, as well as European studies and Nordic experience, shows that the birth rate is relatively high and that child poverty is low in those countries where all receive equally and noticeable family benefits and the state does everything it can to ensure that families with children do not fall into poverty and provides services to children (school, free-of-charge education and schooling, school transport, etc.). All of this helps parents to reconcile family life and work and gives a clear signal that each child is important. Repeated proposals by the Socialists are known: triple child allowance for the first and second children, provide a kindergarten place or other suitable childcare for each child and guarantee a truly free education until the end of the upper secondary school. Parental benefit, the only family allowance that offers tangible support, should be used more flexibly, even in instalments and until the child reaches the age of 18. Unfortunately, this year will not bring any joy to our families. Child benefits do not rise for the tenth year in a row; I am thinking of supporting the first and second children of the family. Let us not ask, then, why the birth rate is so low, why emigration is increasing, and it is young people who are among those who are going away, who are younger in their working life, or who have a child. As of 2012, 83000 Estonian citizens study, work and pay taxes abroad. Hence, somewhere else there is more social security, where our children matter more than in our own country. Therefore, if we continue to wave empty slogans and do nothing cardinal about our family policy without delay, we can begin to ring a bell on our people immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U119	Please, Mr Rein Aidma! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U120	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, These last, pessimist speeches did not inspire much optimism. I'm afraid you have to admit that. The people of Estonia can only be a people with a growing population if they are happy to have children and raise them. This is why the Reform Party aims to make Estonia a family-friendly country, where life values are passed on by healthy and active elderly people, and happy children bring joy to every day. According to the law, a parent must care for and raise his or her child, but first and foremost, raising a child should be the best work and activity in the world. The current family benefit system is working, but we acknowledged many years ago that the system needs to be made more needs-based. In order to ensure a full and active life for children, the principle of more support for those who need real help and those who have more children must apply to the payment of family allowances. This does not mean abolishing universal subsidies. The need-based approach is primarily about targeting support for more types of families at risk of poverty. With this emphasis, we also follow the OECD recommendation that Estonia should not only develop universal family benefits but also income-dependent benefits and support for larger families, which are aimed specifically at children living in the highest poverty. The reform of children's benefits will increase child support for families with children living in relative poverty, from EUR 19.8 to EUR 38.36, while for families with two children, it will increase to EUR 76.72 per month. Yes, in these cases, you must apply to a local social worker for support. But in addition, the child benefit for all families with three or more children will increase from EUR 57.54 to EUR 95.9. The birth grant for triples will increase to more than three times the equivalent of 3000 euros. Child benefit supplements are not taken into account when calculating income support. From 1 January, paid paternity leave was restored. The father shall be entitled to ten working days' leave within two months before the expected date of delivery prescribed by the doctor or midwife and within two months of the birth of the child. Paternity leave is paid on the basis of the average salary of the employee, but not more than three times the average gross wage in Estonia. The main objective of family benefits in many countries has always been to reduce child poverty and prevent poverty. In most countries, in addition to universal child benefit, there are various additional benefits, which also take into account the income of the family. For example, the amount of child benefit depends partly on the family income in Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Italy, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Iceland, Portugal, Slovenia and Spain. The aim of the Estonian 2020 strategy is to reduce the proportion of people living in relative poverty. Lowering the rate of relative poverty is also one of the components of the Europe 2020 strategy's poverty and exclusion target. The relative poverty rate for children is one of the indicators used in the Europe 2020 evaluation framework. Consequently, a relative poverty limit based on an international methodology has been used as the basis for calculating the income limit for the need-based child benefit. According to the latest data from Statistics Estonia in 2011, 17% of children up to 17 years of age lived below the limit of relative poverty. Yes, it is estimated to be 48,000 children under the age of 18. Data from Statistics Estonia show that the relative poverty rate of couples with three children is highest, which is why the country supports families with children and those most in need. Families with one or two children living below the limit of relative poverty must also be supported. They also receive need-based family allowances. The result of this action is that while in 2004 the relative and absolute poverty rates for children were 23% and 20.7%, in 2011 they were, as has been said, 17% and 9.4%. Once again, the state considers it important to support those families who need more help and those who have more children. Let us add, too, that the European Commission attaches great importance to combined support and benefit measures in support of families with children, i.e. the most effective is the combination of universal and need-based support. That is what we have in Estonia today. In October 2013, more than 3200 families received needs-based family allowances and more than 22000 children live in larger families receive child benefit every month. Next, I will read a quote from the article by the mother of two children: "I am convinced that the state is on the right track with a change of thinking, to channel additional resources specifically to those in need. It is important that the support is effective and meaningful. For gratitude and help for Estonia's positive growth. As a mother, I am pleased that the aid goes where it is most needed and I am pleased that the subsidy rates will increase further in 2015." Countries with many working women also have a high birth rate. It really is. We have a well-functioning parental benefit and an evolving and evolving family benefit system. It is now the most difficult task to provide kindergarten places. Here we need to find common solutions with the public sector. We warn against inverse dependence: the less we sting at the impact of existing and developing family benefits on the birth rate and the welfare of children, the more children are born in Estonia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U121	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U122	Ladies and gentlemen, I know that everyone is anxiously waiting for Santa Claus, but this is such an important issue that on behalf of the IRL Group, and also as Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, I will say a few thoughts. I promise I won't take too long. First of all, I would like to thank Ms Ainsaar and Mr Unt for their presentations, which were based primarily on research and scientific data. However, I regret that the Social Democrats are taking advantage of such an important issue for political struggle rather than for making substantive proposals. I am certainly not saying that there is no need to increase child benefits. There is certainly a need to increase child benefits, which is obviously acceptable to everyone here. However, child and family policies mean not only triple support for the first and second children, but also many, many more than what we have just heard from this speaker. First of all, I want to get one thing straightened out. Indeed, there is no basis for the accusations made to the coalition, as we would like to abolish universal child support. As my coalition partner Rein Aidma said in the previous speech chair, we have no intention of eliminating existing universal child support. These accusations sound roughly the same if we were to accuse the social democrats that if they criticise the parental benefit system, they would want to abolish it. I don't think there's any point in having a discussion at this level anymore. It creates fear and instability especially among people who want to have children and who are determined to do so. Instability and inaccuracies in the information on the measures taken by the state will certainly have a strong impact on people's decision whether to have children at all. There's been some talk about vision. The important information that has been brought here today is that the number of women of childbearing age will be smaller and smaller in the future. It is a message that this window, by means of which we can naturally increase our population, will close over the next few years. This window, however, is open for seven to ten years. I think that is why we need to find consensus and act to support the decision of families to have children by means of state measures. The studies that were discussed here showed that the decision to become the first and even the second child is not so strongly related to the financial situation of the family. Rather, it is a personal decision, linked to fears, hopes and expectations, but also to career issues. The existence of childcare and kindergarten places is certainly an important issue, which has also been emphasised here. The country and the government have foreseen, from the next euro money, that investments will be made for a thousand kindergarten places. This is precisely what the state is doing with the municipalities. I hope that the problem of childcare and kindergarten places will also be solved in the coming years. This is not an all-Estonian problem, but it is mainly about the surroundings of Tallinn and Tallinn, Tartu and Pärnu and the surroundings of Pärnu. This is one measure that we have prepared. It has turned out that when a family starts deciding whether to have a third or a fourth child, the decision is very strongly linked to economic, financial issues. That is why, since 2015, universal child benefit for all children has been raised to almost EUR 100 per month. This is what the Riigikogu has decided in this Chamber. In addition, a needs-based child benefit has been established. I don't think it's worth understatement. It is at the beginning of its development, it adds money every year and makes the system more flexible. It is not worth undermining the steps that we have all been taking together in this Chamber lately. Sometimes it sounds like we didn't do anything. But, for example, paternity leave has been restored since the beginning of this year. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U123	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U124	We have put in place a system of parental pensions to make the situation of people raising children and those without children more equal in the future when they start receiving pensions. Germany's new coalition agreement also provides for the application of a parental pension. This has largely been done in Estonia. In summary, I would like to say that according to surveys, Estonian women want to have children. Not only do they want to have one child but they want to have two or three children. That's good news. It is our task in this Chamber, rather than being politically involved, to convey together a strong message that we are dealing with child and family policies and encouraging families to have children and supporting them in raising children. We need to see how we can avoid the current situation where, when a third child is born into the family, the family falls below the poverty line, even though both parents are working. This is a disgrace to the Estonian state. We must eliminate this situation and give women the courage to fulfill their dream of having a child in the future. The difference between wishes and reality must be eliminated here by means of politics. Finally, let us think big. There is no need for such a great deal of chemibling around this issue or sending out messages that cause instability, which is not true. There is no need to lie with a big mouth to create conflicts and get more votes, but to deal with this most important problem together. Let us discuss what our options are and what possible measures are. The Government of the Republic has made a promise that a Green Paper on long-awaited family benefits and services will be published at the beginning of next year, with a comprehensive description of the measures and their impact. I hope that we will be able to discuss the steps taken in family policy already during this membership. I wish everyone a nice and peaceful Christmas holiday! Use this time, who has the opportunity to improve the well-being of the Estonian people as well! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U125	Thank you. Please speak to the Riigikogu Chair Olga Sõtnik! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we discussed a very vital and important issue here as a key national issue. From the point of view of the functioning of the country, it is crucial how many children are born and how high or low the birth rate is. It depends on how many future taxpayers we have, the creators of well-being, and how sustainable Estonia and its people are. We are facing three serious demographic challenges. Firstly, the number of women of childbearing age is decreasing. In a few years' time, women of childbearing age who were born in the 1990s will be nearly twice as many women as in the 1980s. Women born in the 19th century. Another major problem is that we have one of the lowest birth rates in the European Union, i.e. how many children a woman will have in life. For population reproduction, this figure needs to be above 2. We are not alone in this problem, of course, and very many other countries of the European Union are facing it. But there are also exceptions, such as Iceland, Ireland, France and Turkey, where this multiplier is over 2. We could learn something from them. The third major problem is the emigration of young women. Over the past few years, the number of women in childbirth leave Estonia has increased dramatically, with a particularly high exodus in the age group of 24 to 34 years. There is nothing wrong with people going elsewhere to get a good education and experience in work and life. But the problem is that these women are not coming back because our social organisation, our general lack of security and the low level of social well-being are not conducive to this. It is also important that the level of education of Estonian men is lower than that of Estonian women, i.e. women cannot find an equal partner in their home country. All three of these problems are very complex and complex. There are no simple solutions. But if we do nothing now, nothing will happen and our population will continue to decline. We need to think more about problems that we do not like to think about, such as immigration policy. We also need to think about how to raise the overall level of well-being, how to raise wages and align them with the level of the European Union. At national level, we need to do more to reconcile flexible family life and work. This also means better organisation of childcare services, because we know that there are not enough kindergarten places for all children, especially young children. We need to think more about how to enable women to work part-time or use teleworking. Another reason why families are often left without children at all or restricted to only one child is family violence. If a woman (generally a woman) is a victim of domestic violence, she does not feel safe. Then why would he want to have kids when he gets beat up every day? A broad and accessible support structure for crisis assistance, counselling and therapy should be established. With a view to the well-being of children, a large group such as single parents, mentioned here today, must be dealt with. There's over 78,000 of them. According to Statistics Estonia, we know that 41% of single parents live in relative poverty and 23% live in absolute poverty. There is also a very high risk of poverty in families with more than two children. More attention needs to be paid to different types of families: single-parent families, child-rich families and foster families. Attention must also be paid to families of the same sex, who we do not have much, but because of the lack of laws, children growing in such families are particularly vulnerable. This was also detected by the recently published analysis of the Estonian Human Rights Centre. When we talk about family benefits, I agree with the waitresses who said that child allowances should be increased. It is not a cost, it is not money, it is not money, it is an investment in the future, as the Prime Minister once said. There is no serious argument as to why child benefits cannot or should not be raised. The Estonian Centre Party has proposed how the universal child benefit system could be reformed. We offer that in 2015, the child benefit for the second child would rise from the current EUR 19 to EUR 57, in 2016 the child benefit for the first child would rise to EUR 38, and from 2017 the amount of the allowance could be six times the amount of child benefit. Another type of support that we have stood for and which was introduced by the Minister of Education, Mailis Reps, under the leadership of a member of our party, is the school lunch grant. It's been on the same level of 78 cents, for quite a long time. But clearly, prices have risen and this support no longer covers the needs. At the same time, we know that school lunch is the only warm daily food for a very large number of children, so the school lunch allowance should also be used in upper secondary school, perhaps also in kindergartens. In the final part of my speech, I address Santa Claus. I hope he's already in this house watching our discussion. Dear Santa! Be good and give all those in this hall the wisdom and strength to put their backs together and, despite their political differences, to resolve the problems that many Estonian children face every day. Give us reason so that no child should suffer or live in need, no child should go to sleep on an empty stomach, and no child should suffer violence and live in fear. Please, make sure that all children are loved, cared for, and understood! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U127	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Thank you very much to the senior researchers of the University of Tartu and Tallinn University, all the waitresses, the questioners and, of course, the Group of the Social Democratic Party who initiated this crucial state issue! The debate is closed and the fifth item is also under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U128	Good fellows, we're moving on. It's an honor to ask Santa Claus in this hall. That's where he comes in with a firm chair of the President of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U129	Hello, hello! Do you need to move on from here? Got it. Come on, get some candy inside the boxing glove. Here you go! You've been a good boy all year. Oh, we're in a hurry! Well, let's go! I took these gloves off a boxer from Vital. He said he'd hang them up and they'd be fine left over. Where am I going now? I see. Can I come in? That's good. Come on, Ene, tell me how you've been this year! Anyway, you look more fun than last year, I'm watching. [[Let's hear it.]] Oh, people are here too. I'll come quietly then. I'm gonna get settled in here, then I'm gonna take a look at you with my own eyes. Hi! Are you the girl who writes? Oh, you're not writing! Who's gonna write it? Why don't you write, don't you have ideas? I see. That's good. That's good. That's good. Hello, lovely people! Hello, hello! There's been quite a few of you coming together. I'm gonna go to the speaker's desk. There was no snow this year, but I still came in with my company sleigh because I don't know how it's gonna be next year with that corporate tax thing. It's complicated. I came without the snow, and the feet almost cost me. But what have I noticed all this year looking at you? Of course, today's topic. Thank you, Olga, for your speech. I hear what happens in the Riigikogu all the time. I have a problem with my head, I don't need any technical equipment, I hear you all the time. I just want to talk about dealing with the kids. I know this was about the smoking room thing, whether to make it into a nursery. In fact, even though we have almost all children smoking, this does not mean that we should accept it. Let's take a look at this lovely lovely hall. Really, the kids could be here with us all the time. You could make a slide down there, you could put a little trampoline down here, you could build a sandbox. If the children were with us all the time, we would always remember the subject. Today, it is often the case that children seem to be somewhere else; they have nothing to do with it. But if there was a proper debate about the state budget, the kids would be running around all the time, some kids would be on someone's lap, someone would help some kids make something out of the constructor, then it would make sense that the children are part of our everyday life and are important too. Whether child benefits are large or small, I don't know. One thing's really good. Indeed, if this support has been EUR 19 for so long, it is one sure thing in this changing world to rely on and where to gain confidence. If something in this world is so well known, then CERN scientists can calibrate their instruments because this thing never changes, there's nothing about temperature or anything else. The other thing that has made me happy is that you guys are so friendly with each other. One political party goes to another, the other political party goes to another. I see in my mind that once everyone in the Reform Party has gone to the Centre Party and vice versa. Then we'd understand each other better. We'd know how to put ourselves in another person's position. Then the Reform Party could also take power in Tallinn, and the Centre Party could still be a party of the Prime Minister. Everyone could switch places just like that. There could be such a rotation, that the ambassador is a member of one party for one year, for example, then he is obliged to go to another party, be there for one year, and so on nicely until the circle is full. Guys, I got a lot on my mind! I have not been elected by the people to Parliament, and I have no choice but to make people happy and happy. So that my speech here isn't as incomplete as the basic school and high school law or some night hearing, I'm gonna start sharing gifts. Can we put it to a vote? No, you can't. So I'm gonna start sharing presents. I've got a really good bag here today, and I shut it down nicely, and now I don't know... Ahh, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party will be the first to come here! Since I can't see the microphone here, please, sweet child, come here on the remote, it's nice to hear it. I've been waiting for this moment!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U130	Thank you, dear Santa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U131	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U132	Here I am!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U133	Yeah, yeah! Usually now followed by fun dance, poem, or song.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U134	I choose a poem, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U135	Yeah, it's different than dancing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U136	Can I ask for more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U137	Right from the beginning?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U138	Who knows, it could take a long time to put on a poem. But well, I'll try to be brief, although that's not always possible. We usually have a watch here, and it's possible to set the clock. So we're gonna make it. The poem is called Santa Claus. The poem itself sounds like: "The tree fell off the apple, The year has come to an end and that we should not be ashamed, We'll discuss it over the year. Making the Year the Most Important is the reading of the budget. Just Near, bad-bad, Gives us a little money. Child benefits are lousy, That's what's cursing them in a loud voice. VAT is the subject of the day, Makes businessmen boil. Decided to Work several days and nights in a row. Stretched, voted Everything they remembered. At night in the castle, the trumpet shouted, the sleepers didn't have time. But someone was kidding, Turned off the siren. Now the reflex didn't work, It went behind the fence. It's been pulled together. They crawled into their homes. At home somebody patched up the roof, Someone just licked the wounds. It's like it's gotten, Almost the money was made. It's like it's in balance. People have wealth, happiness. Who can find happiness there, He's hiding in a bank abroad. We'll get paid for that. From a journalist to a malka. I'm sorry, Santa. Our praise is old. If you believe in our bullshit, Hide your rod! We don't ask for gifts, We have expenses. In the new year, new winds, You'll hear about our actions. Everything that's been bad so far, can then be done again, Cleverer than in the old days And reflected nicely. Is There A Reason to Be Proud before our Christmas vacation? Is there any reason to praise yourself? You want to spend some time on the ski course? Who can beat a leaf nigger, who's on the TV show, With pride, with shame, New cones in the new year." [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U139	Is that enough? Was it enough? Good boy! But I think I'm gonna give you a little prize, too. I thought the Central Party ran out of radios in the fall. There's one here now. It works just fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U140	It's the wrong station!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U141	I'll see what else is coming. (Radio: "... walk in godly fear, teach your children the way of godly fear. Now we have four children. The first one is already in the second year of the university, the second one is 8 years old, the third one is 2 years old and the fourth one is two months old. ") [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U142	These are our four parties, that's all we need. Thank you, Santa! Good luck to you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U143	Needed, needed! It's a wonderful thing about modern technology. Now I would like to ask a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group. Oh, Sven came by himself! You weren't there last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U144	Last year I was in a disease bed, and I've been running this year, open my mouth, against the wind to get a sexy hoarse voice. But in the meantime, it got so bad that I actually wanted to send Mr. Vassilyev to read the poem of his younger brother, Rannari, but he's a shy boy and he didn't want to come. So I came by myself. I also have a poem, and it's called "The Christmas hawk of Parliament." Three more minutes, please! "I'm sorry, my poetry sounds bulging, But what matters is something else. I'm borrowing an axe from the Vanemuine, to bring a curly tree to the hall for Christmas. A tree, as usual, a week before the holidays, will be waved in from the state forest. He's standing in the corner, pretty empty at first, But it's okay, it'll be decorated. There are first only cones hanging on branches, then comes Ene, above the purple coat, He climbs, races until he reaches the top, And the six-living dresses ESTCube. Then Eiki's gonna shut down the Christmas beer. And take a little breath of refreshment. Look, Andrus is dumping the seeds under the tree. That a bird would taste the joy of Christmas. With a blessed time, also a hat in a foil lining has the benefit at last of a roast ripening in it, duck, decoy and delicious. I guess that's the way it is now. that the letter is available on the menu à la kanàd. The cold winter sun shines the last rays, Deniska stands, with an anxious glare in her eyes, the look of the liberal measures the horizon. That's where the Christmas Eve sled comes from! Daddy's in the hall, black plastic bag. receives a package of every Elf of Toompea, get a few mil, the other one's good enough to figure it out. Going to the old days again, it's a long way home. There's an old laid safely in the sleigh, But the feast is just beginning on Mount Toompea, All elves whisk into the cancan, who in stockings, who in his shirt." [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U145	Such a beautiful winter picture. I'll see what I can find here. As long as I'm looking, I'm gonna take some candy from inside the boxing glove. What do I see here? I see one thing after another. Is that really the thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U146	We lost the rooftop money, too. We didn't expect to get the gift.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U147	I found it! It's a whole family memory game for the socialists. There are questions that can be asked when the debate on the state budget comes back, because otherwise, for example, questions may run out. For example, what kind of music style that developed in the second half of the 1970's has the characteristics of cock-brush hairstyles? Then you can deal with this issue, take a ten-minute break and go discussing it. So this is where you get ideas for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U148	It was a punk gift.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U149	Good, good, good! I will dive into the bag once and say that there is now a completely free opportunity for the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance to come and redeem their gift. Who's brave? They're coming. Very good! I'm gonna pour some of this bottle for myself. That's what the bottle says. Let's hear it!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U150	Hello, Santa! We've had a year of flying machines this year. When we spoke at the beginning of the year about the airline, airlines, and planes, in the second half of the year, more of one of the most modern machines, the kind of helicopter that flew outside the window. But, of course, we promise that we won't go behind the windows of good children, that's where the elves go. That's why we've chosen such a poem. Let's just hope we get a chopper out of that bag, but I don't know what's coming from there. This poem is written about the idea of a creative economy, talks about experience tourism, has a clear vision and a sustainable vision of development. We have certainly also had in mind the friendship of the nations and the joint work of the creative federations, because this poem has been written by Nikolai Goncharov and translated by Leelo Tungal. The poem is called "Chopper," and I will present it with Thomas Tõnis. "Sun, It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. distress aircraft Whip: no wings, on top of the propeller... How it flies Like that? But maybe... the engine is slipping; screw song hoisting... Sun village flies helicopter now with us!"
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U151	Beautiful! I like the fact that everything has gone the hard way and thought of a poem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U152	We didn't think about it. The others wrote it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U153	But I have a beautiful present for you here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U154	I didn't get a chopper!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U155	No, I didn't. But this is a nice billboard that is designed to enable the IRL to do something constructive in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. There's one more thing I'd be happy to give you. It's an Olympic book. You can read what the Olympics are. Whether it takes money to prepare an Olympic athlete or not at all, I do not know. Here you go! You should know that. Good boy! Good girl too! You can still clap, because you don't often have these times if you're happy with a politician. [[Let's hear it.]] Now I have chosen a fine company that is especially close to my heart. These are the people under the window, the people who are not members of the group. Here you go, send your representation! There are most of you, you'll always be there. The speaker's good to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U156	Good Santa Claus and ladies and gentlemen! The story that has happened to the Democrats over the last year is that we decided that we would all become party parties. That means that two of us became Social Democrats, Deniss is sitting among the Reformers, and I and Kalle are arguing about who's going back to the Centre Party and who's going to the IRL. Since we have not yet been able to make a firm decision, it is what it is now. But Santa asked why no one sings. I could sing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U157	Finally!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U158	But it takes two things. It takes a sound to sing, but it cannot, because it is not nice to start singing a sound ladder in this Riigikogu hall, and secondly, I also need oil, singing oil. So there's gonna be a poem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U159	We'll think of a way to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U160	Me and Kalle are people by the sea. I've always liked the sea and poems from the sea, even though Christmastime doesn't quite fit. I memorized a long poem when I was in school. It's Tuglas' Sea. I'll read you a few lines from there. I don't read the whole poem because Santa's in a hurry.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U161	I'm not in a hurry, not at all!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U162	Then let's shoot longer. "When I was a child, I longed for the sea beyond measure. I wanted to see his waves of whites get used to And the shadow of the grin gliding on the waves and swaying gulls inside the foam and far from the fluctuating lonely sails. And now I see you, oh vast sea! Waves rise, fall, # Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, And then quickly disappear again. There's a red light burning in my prison room... Shadows go, shadows swim, then they take a suspicious form they... Drink the cold wind, my tired chest! Snuggle, free and angry storm, hug me!" So let's hug! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U163	Come here! Snuggling immediately took a tear in his eye. I've got all kinds of stuff here. I'll take a look. Turns out it doesn't exactly know how many of you are going to be under that window. I've got the flower pots nicely here, there's the carrot seed, there's the peas, there's the carrot, there's the tomato, there's the turnip. Wait, wait, there's something else. There should be something nice to do under the window all the time. See, there's some more black soil you can put in that pot. I put a bag around here. Good luck! I believe that if you put the seed down today, it makes sense to come to you in April. Others can always see that their tomato is starting to turn red. Have a nice planting and a nice time! [[Let's hear it.]] Yeah, yeah. There's another present in this bag. That's why I had to come in the cart. I ask the representatives of the Estonian Reform Party if they are here! Yes! The wave is always helping out.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U164	Sweet Santa Claus! Ladies and gentlemen, After such a poem about the swaying and stormy sea, it is certainly wise to reach a more calm atmosphere. The Reform Party Group wants to give both its colleagues and all the people here - and on this side of the light blue screen - a great message. Indeed, the most important thing in politics and not only in politics, but in all forms of collective action is the spirit of cooperation and the team. It is important that everyone knows their role and function. It's like an orchestra where the tuba shouldn't play the first violin if it has a second role, and where the timpan shouldn't overspeak the soloist. Each orchestra also has a conductor. Surely it is very important that the conductor, or leader, sometimes go to his instrumentalists so that there is no such feeling that the conductor does not interfere with the orchestra. That is why it is important that every leader sometimes tries to do what members of his team do. Composer Joseph Haydn is famous for messages sent through his symphonies. We're presenting a little slice of Haydn's Surprise Symphony. Santa wanted to hear the song, and we're willing. It's not too long. With this surprise, we wish all our colleagues in the coalition and opposition, the government and all the children and parents of those who observe Santa's coming to the Riigikogu, beautiful Christmas, a great New Year's Eve, friendly association, respect for one another and a lot of love! Now the conductor takes out the instrument and goes in front of his orchestra with the tool. [[Sounds like a bell game, a round of applause.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U165	That's it, that's it! Much has been discussed about what the government is doing. Now we have, at least in part, received an answer. Excellent, my friends! It was something that moved me. The gift in this bag is corresponding, but how did I... Oh! Okay. I'm gonna ask the crew to help, I'm gonna turn it a little bit this way, try to lift it...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U166	Before you hand over the gift, I would like to say thank you to the Arsis Bell School, who gave us this beautiful performance!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U167	Of course, let's clap them too! [[Let's hear it.]] Okay. Oh, I'll make sure I get this... Let's see if the bag comes off at all. Huhh! Here's a nice cash register. Here you can monitor the progress of the country's cash flow, it is possible to strike exactly below EUR 1000 bills, and I have also looked at how much money we still have. At all, if you take it apart, you'll understand how the economy works. Fresh Sirb number, too! [[Laughter.]] That was very heartwarming, my friends! Thank you so much and have a nice Christmas time. I'm going back.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U168	Will you lend us your cart so we can take this gift away?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U169	I was hoping I'd get on that cart and Ene would kick me out nicely with it. That's how it's Christmas man's job to share gifts, and he doesn't get anything. What?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U170	You'll get something. I've been watching you come here, you look awfully withered and skinny.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U171	Yes, it is, yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U172	I'll give you a cookbook so you can make yourself a comma two. One good news, too. Looking at how this book was bought in front of this hall before, I can say that every third member of the Riigikogu is literate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U173	It is already, isn't it? The cook has written a book about himself. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U174	That's right. What's your name? Tell me, I'll check in here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U175	Dirty or Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U176	Dirty or Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U177	J. Man.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U178	Yeah, write J. Man down nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U179	You can read the verse.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U180	"He stepped in like a dandy..."
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U181	...old.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-19_U182	Oh! "The young and the younger, and the old, came into the house like a flock of chickens, and they all had... " What else could it be? I was in a good mood. All right, dear friends! 365 days is going to be like a bird's flying again. Please sit down! [[Santa asks Ene Ergma to sit on the cart, Ene Ergma asks Santa to do it.]] Let's keep it. Let's keep it. (Ene Ergma pushes Santa's cart out of the hall, Santa follows him.) No, well, I care about my health, that's how it is. [[Let's hear it.]] Take care! I'm sure when I get here next year, you'll be in exactly the same place as discussing family benefits. Closure of the sitting at 13.24 p.m.
