ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. It's good to see you in this hall again. We will begin the Monday session of the first working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the possibility of passing on drafts and enquiries. I request the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching nine draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Law on Legal Aid, the Law on state fees, the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws in connection with it. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Advertising Act. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder. Fourthly, the Act on Insurance Activities and related amendments to other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Fifthly, the bill to amend the chemicals law. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu in Taavi Rõiva, Minister of Social Affairs. Sixth, the bill for hunting. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Seventhly, the draft law amending the Administrative Division of the Estonian territory, the Act to facilitate the merger of local government units and the Public Transport Act. Siim Valmar Kiisler, Minister of Regional Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Eightth draft law amending the Law on Commercial Shipping and the Law on State Fees. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Ninth, a draft law amending the law granting international protection to an alien and related other laws. Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will report an inquiry to Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher. The question is about missing persons. A few years ago, an article was published in the Evening Paper, which revealed that 513 Estonian families are waiting for loved ones who have gone missing. The situation was that by July 2001 300 people had disappeared, but already 513 by June 2007. At the time of the initiation of the inquiry, the Homepage of the Police and Border Guard Board requested assistance in finding 52 missing persons. It was pointed out that any information explaining the person's current position, etc., might be useful. The Centre Party considers that missing people is a tragedy for those close to them in particular, but it is also a threat to internal security that must be addressed very seriously in society as a whole. An inquiry has been made on the basis of a citizen's address. Please explain what a relative of an unknown missing person must do when he sees that the police officers of his residence are not actually looking for a missing person. There are four other questions that I would ask the Minister of the Interior to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U5	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Now that I'm becoming a voter, listen to me, please, carefully! There has been some talk on this subject that I am now going to talk about at the beginning of this year, but if you sharpen your memory, it turns out that there was a lot of talk about it last year. That is, that the principles of election of the Riigikogu should be harmonised in such a way as to make it clear to voters who will be elected and who will be elected. The one who gets more votes in the election should be elected. Of course, it is also necessary to compare the size of the circles, but the principle should be that who gets more votes will also have more opportunities to become a member of the Riigikogu. This principle of open lists works well in the electoral circles, so let's make it work on common lists. Since summer, it has seemed as if a completely independent bill on this subject had been in the process for a long time. Indeed, there was an amendment during the summer, and there have also been many complex changes later. If, for example, during the summer, you were very excited that this could not be the right proposal, which is certainly based on the internal interests of one of the parties, then now the same is true. Therefore, they could also support the principle of open lists. When this vote took place, a large part of the members of the Riigikogu did not take a stand. Consequently, there is an order to continue the debate on the introduction of open lists. Andres Herkel, Juku-Kalle Raid and I will present a draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act, with which we will also propose to open common lists. I am leaving the Riigikogu and I will be a voter, but Andres Herkel has been familiar with this subject for a long time and will defend this bill with pride in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U7	Thank you! Please, Mr Nestor, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U8	I have a procedural question. Thanks to Tõnis for this good voter's bill, I ask why the IRL was written behind his name, why there was no ERM written there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U9	Sorry, dear Eiki Nestor! For another week, Tõnis Lukas is a member of the IRL and the Riigikogu. On behalf of the governing board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted ten draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to accept them within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed leading committees for them: a draft of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic' submitted on 19 December last year by the Estonian Central Party, the commission of which is the draft of the Industrial Emissions Act initiated on 20 December last year by the Government of the Republic, the commission of which is the Environment Committee, the draft of the Act amending the Private School Act initiated on 20 December last year by the Riigikogu Committee on Culture, the commission of which is the Committee on Culture, and the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic' submitted on 20 December last year by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, whose commission is the Social Affairs Committee. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the following drafts to the European Union Affairs Committee submitted on 20 December last year by the Government of the Republic. Firstly, a draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on fluorinated greenhouse gases. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Environment Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 17 January 2010 at 4 p.m. Secondly, a draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2011/92/EU on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Environment Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 17 January 2010 at 4 p.m. Also in the Government of the Republic. a A draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on in vitro diagnostic medical devices submitted on 3 January and a draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on medical devices and amending Directive 2001/83/EC, Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 and Regulation (EC) No 1223/2009 were forwarded to the Commission for European Union Affairs. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Social Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 24 January 2010 at 4 p.m. In addition, a draft regulation of the Council of the European Union concerning restrictive measures against Iran has been submitted to the Foreign Affairs Committee by the Government of the Republic on 21 December last year. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Government of the Republic's position and the Legal Affairs Committee to give an opinion on the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 17 January 2010 at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15. Before we go to the adoption of the agenda, we need to clarify the agenda, as the Central Party Group has withdrawn the following requests for information. First, the inquiry into the taxation of financial transactions submitted on 14 November 2012 by members of the Riigikogu Aivar Riisalu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Vladimir Velman, Peeter Võsa, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendiev, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Ester Tuiksoo and Mailis Repsi (No 212, agenda item 7). Secondly, the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendijev, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Vladimir Velman, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Aivar Riisalu, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev and Aadu Musta on 14 November 2012 concerning the protection of domestic consumers (No 226, item on agenda No 10). Thirdly, the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kallo, Olga Sõtnik, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Aivar Riisalu, Ester Tuiksoo, Viktor Vassilyev and Priit Toobali on 15 November 2012 concerning the use of EUR 2.635 million allocated to private companies without public procurement (No 244, item 11). Fourthly, the inquiry to reduce home expenses submitted by members of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korbi, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Aivar Riisalu, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Priit Toobali, Kalev Kallo, Olga Sõtnik and Tarmo Tamme on 15 November 2012 (No 245, item 12). Fifthly, the inquiry to the members of the Riigikogu, Peeter Võsa, Enn Eesmaa, Kalev Kallo, Aadu Musta, Priit Toobali, Ester Tuiksoo, Tarmo Tamme and Lauri Laas on 15 November 2012 (No 249, item No 13). Sixthly, the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, Lauri Laasi, Valeri Korbi, Aadu Musta, Kalev Kallo, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Olga Sõtnik, Vladimir Velmani, Heimar Lengi, Viktor Vassilyev, Ester Tuiksoo, Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendiev and Jüri Ratas on 22 November 2012 (No 252, item 14). Seventh, the inquiry into the reform of family allowances submitted on 14 November 2012 by Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velman, Olga Sõtnik, Peeter Võsa, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Lauri Laas and Eldar Efendijev, members of the Riigikogu (No 227, item No 15). Eighth, the request for an increase in pensions submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Heimar Leng, Marika Tuus-Laul and Aivar Riisalu on 14 November 2012 (No 228, agenda item 16). Ninth, the inquiry for access to medical care submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Marika Tuus-Laul, Heimar Leng, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Vladimir Velman, Eldar Efendiev, Jüri Ratas, Priit Toobali, Viktor Vassilyev and Esther Tuiksoo on 14 November 2012 (No 230, agenda item 18). Tenth, the inquiry into the financing of care treatment submitted on 15 November 2012 by members of the Riigikogu Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Priit Toobali, Peeter Võsa, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Marika Tuus-Lauli and Mailis Repsi (No 237, item 20). Enquiries submitted by Valeri Korbi, Priit Toobali, Marika Tuus-Lauli and Vladimir Velman, members of the Riigikogu on 15 November 2012 regarding the availability of services for disabled persons (No 243, agenda item 21). Now we're done with the Centre Party Group. Next detail. The Committee on Social Affairs has proposed, please, attention. be excluded from the agenda the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Medicines, the Penal Code and the Law on State Fees initiated by the Government of the Republic, which is on the agenda of this week on Wednesday 16 January as the fifth item on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, along with all these improvements, I will put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 8 against and 1 abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U10	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. Answering questions begins. The first question to be heard is the inquiry submitted on 14 November 2012 by the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Ester Tuiksoo, Aadu Musta, Priit Toobali, Olga Sõtnik, Eldar Efendiev, Lauri Laas and Aivar Riisalu concerning the funding of the Office of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment. I would like to ask my colleague, Yana Toom, to speak to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U11	Madam President! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, On 14 November 2012, we submitted an inquiry into the financing of the Office of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment. In short, let me remind you of its content. In December 2008, the Equal Treatment Act was adopted, extending the mandate of the Gender Equality Commissioner with the obligation to monitor the Equal Treatment Act. While the Gender Equality Commissioner only dealt with cases of unequal treatment, the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner must monitor whether there is unequal treatment on grounds of sex, nationality, race, colour, religion or belief, disability or sexual orientation. As regards the extension of competences, the Commissioner was promised an increase in the funding for his office. Unfortunately, this has not happened. Since that promise was made, it's been a little over four years. Last year, we already handed over the same question. It was answered that soon there would be Norwegian money, at least EUR 700000, and it would finance part of the activities of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment. Just before I got here today, I contacted Mari-Liis Sepper again and found out that the money was still on the way and was a little late. Money is indeed allowed, but, unfortunately, the situation is that this Norwegian money is only intended for activities related to gender equality. It is not intended for 'discrimination' or 'non-discrimination'. This means that even if this money arrives, exactly half of the Commissioner's duties will still be left without the state's financial coverage. In this regard, we have six questions for the Prime Minister. I will not waste any time, and I hope that the Prime Minister will read these questions himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U12	Thank you very much, Mr Toom. Mr. Prime Minister's speaking desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. Question 1: 'How do you assess the activities of the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner? In your opinion, does this contribute to solving problems and constitute an effective instrument against discrimination? ' The Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment advocates the protection and observance of the fundamental rights of equality enshrined in § 12 of the Constitution. One of the main tasks of the Commissioner is to monitor compliance with the requirements of the Gender Equality Act and the Equal Treatment Act. In carrying out his other duties, the Commissioner will contribute to a more effective implementation of these laws. The Commissioner's opinion that discrimination in person's opinion has actually taken place and the advice and assistance he provides can also encourage a person to turn to the Labour Dispute Commission or the Court to defend his rights. The transmission of the Commissioner's opinion to the person responsible for discrimination in a specific situation may, however, prevent the need for recourse to the courts if, on the basis of the Commissioner's opinion, the person understands the discriminatory nature of his activities so far and takes steps to improve the situation. The second question: 'How do you assess the state's support for the Commissioner's activities? ' The Commissioner's institution has been set up by the state and is part of the country. As regards the role of the Government of the Republic in supporting the activities of the Commissioner, given the fact that according to the law, the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment is an independent and impartial independent expert, the government sees, in addition to the duties imposed by law on the Minister for Social Affairs or the Government in relation to the Commissioner, as its main task to support the institution of the Commissioner with the resources necessary for his activities. For example, the Ministry of Social Affairs allows the Commissioner and his office free of charge to use the premises necessary for their work, as well as providing accounting and IT services as a free support service. The promotion of gender equality in the framework of the Estonian ESF programme, which is implemented by the Department of Gender Equality in the Ministry of Social Affairs, is designed to update the Commissioner's website. The government, through the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, has actively sought other financing opportunities from foreign funds to make the Commissioner's work more efficient. The third question: 'Why has the government not found the means to fulfil its 2008 commitment for the fifth year in a row and to ensure adequate funding for the Commissioner's office? When is it planned to do so? ' From the 2013 state budget, EUR 62351 has been allocated to the Commissioner to cover staff and management costs, which is slightly more than in 2012, when this amount was EUR 59786. The Commissioner was also involved in negotiations on the 2013 budget with the Ministry of Finance. In addition, on 30 October 2012, the Kingdom of Norway approved the funding of the programme on promoting gender equality and work-life balance presented by Estonia from the Norwegian Financial Mechanism for 2009/2014. In the request, the Ministry of Social Affairs, which is the programme operator, stipulated that the programme would also fund the activities of the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner as part of a pre-defined project of EUR 700000. Co-financing by the Estonian state accounts for 15% of the project budget. Through additional resources, the Commissioner plans to take measures to improve anti-discrimination law enforcement by raising awareness, assisting victims of discrimination and improving the capacity of officials dealing with their victims. In order to carry out the project, the wage costs of six people are foreseen, including those of the project manager and assistant. The Commissioner also plans measures to promote gender equality and support gender mainstreaming. The negotiations on the programme agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Kingdom of Norway are at an advanced stage. At the same time, the Ministry of Social Affairs has asked the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner to submit a detailed and up-to-date project application on the basis of which it is possible to conclude an appropriate agreement after the evaluation and to start the activities foreseen in the project. Question 4: Is the creation of a non-discriminatory environment and real equality among government priorities? What role does the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment play in this work? 'The programme of action of the Government of the Republic in 2011-2015 includes a number of objectives and activities relating to equal treatment, equal opportunities and equality which contribute to achieving real equality in society. For example, it is considered necessary to promote the general openness and tolerance of Estonian society, increase the level of education and skills of people, reduce early school leaving and increase participation in lifelong learning, support active ageing, support the reintegration of long-term women in the labour market due to caring obligations, develop work-life reconciliation opportunities, including by improving childcare, take measures to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities and improve the health and life expectancy of women and men, as well as to combat close violence and better integration of all members of society. It can therefore be argued that the creation of a non-discriminatory environment and the achievement of real equality are among the priorities of the government. Question 5: How do you assess the situation when, by the time the overburdened Commissioner can identify discrimination, a court hearing is already late? Do you think that this work organisation and financing scheme do not undermine citizens' confidence in national institutions? " To avoid this undesirable situation, the Ministry of Social Affairs has taken steps, as far as possible, to find additional resources for the Commissioner's institution. Question 6: "As your head of government, do you not think that the members of the government should also support the Commissioner's activities morally and it would also be reasonable to acknowledge him, even because the Commissioner has earned the trust of the Estonian people in a relatively short period of time? ' For the government, it is important that the state institutions function effectively and have a good reputation. It is important that they are also guaranteed for the institution of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment. At the same time, justified criticism must be endured by all public officials, including the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U14	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Let's start asking questions. Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U15	Thank you very much. The Gender Equality Act was passed in our country in 2004 when we became a Member State of the European Union. There is such a clause that talks about the creation of a Gender Equality Council. I ask, Mr Prime Minister, who are members of this assembly, who should advise the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment, in order to reduce his workload a little. If there is no such council, I ask why the Prime Minister considers himself above the law because he does not care to do the will of the Riigikogu as the legislator.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U16	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U17	Thank you. I certainly do not consider myself to be above the legislator. I am not ready to answer the question you have asked right now. I'm not informed of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U18	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! My question comes a little sideways, but at the same time it ties very well with the subject. Today, in the Committee on Social Affairs, we discussed gender quotas, which should, as if, be established in listed companies. I have a question about this and this question. You are obviously a person who perceives that gender equality is a good thing that must be fully protected and developed. Then why is there only one female minister in your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U19	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U20	There has also been more than one female minister in my governments, even three women ministers have been, but I admit that, of course, there is little. It's a matter of general attitudes. Women could be more keen on leadership positions, both in politics and in entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U21	Thank you. If the Commissioner's institution does not get more money, the Commissioner must choose some priorities from among his areas of activity, such as gender equality, people with disabilities, the protection of ethnic minorities, the situation of sexual minorities and religious minorities, combating discrimination against older people, etc. What areas do you think should be priorities? With so little money and such a small composition, he just can't deal with everything, he's in trouble.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U22	Thank you. As I have already mentioned in my reply, this year the Commissioner's budget is EUR 62351, last year it was EUR 59786, but there is an increase of EUR 700000 from Norwegian resources, which is quite a significant amount. As has already been said, this also means the creation of six new posts. In my opinion, this is a significant expansion of activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U23	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U24	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! I listened to you answer the fifth question, but you didn't tell me how you appreciate the situation that is now and what is to be expected in the future. Really, the subject is quite topical. How do you assess this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U25	I appreciate this situation with precisely EUR 700000, which will go further in expanding the activities of the Gender Equality Commissioner. In itself, no one has any news that additional resources are needed in every aspect of life. This area does not constitute any exception. Resources are needed to increase teachers' salaries, to provide health services, to local authorities everywhere. The state budget has been prepared in a responsible manner and is based on the desire to maintain a balance between the fields and to develop the Estonian state in the best way, taking into account the financial resources at our disposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U26	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Prime Minister! Estonia is a masculine country: we do not support gender quotas; women cannot be put on company councils with power; the government has not supported it either. Yet you also say that women could be more active. Can you suggest what the Estonian women should do in order to participate more in politics and to be more in leadership positions in entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U28	Thank you. I have already made this recommendation: they should be more active.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U29	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U30	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! My question is: will you attend Question Time on Wednesday?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U31	Yeah, I'm in.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U32	I cannot give the floor to Mrs Mikko, because there is only one question that can be asked in the case of enquiries. No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U33	Let's go to the next question. This is an inquiry into the census submitted by members of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Vladimir Velman, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Eldar Efendiev and Peeter Võsa on 14 November 2012. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U34	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister! At midnight on March 31, the population and housing census ended in Estonia, this time the eleventh. During the last census, 1294236 permanent residents were counted in Estonia. Compared to the 2000 census, the number of permanent residents in Estonia has decreased by 75816. The composition of the Estonian population has also changed. While in 2000, 18% of the population aged 14 years or less had fallen to 15% in 2011. In view of the Government of the Republic's policy, the above population decline and population ageing are to be expected, but it is even more interesting that the statistics of the forms received from the censuses are available on the website of Statistics Estonia. The number of persons counted per day between 1 January and 30 March is available for questioning; a graph is also given. From these data, it follows that 2. No forms were entered into the system until February. It is understandable that this is 2. Until February, when the electronic census had already ended and the survey census had not yet started, but 16/22. What happened between February and February is a bit mysterious. I'll read a few questions. How was it possible that on March 7, the censuses received 1,06187 people counted in one day, but in the next 24 days, only 1,500 to 31,500 people were taken from their homes? What is it? Do you not find the result of 7 March strange, given that an average of 8,000 forms per day were received within the next 24 days? Second set of questions. Why wasn't the 16th?22nd. Any forms on the system until February? There was a count. Didn't the system work or did they do a check on the collected forms? Another set of questions. How did the questioning forms get into the system? Did this happen immediately after completing the form at the countable home or later? I will add to this the information that remained in our ears when we in the Group listened to the representatives of Statistics Estonia who told us about the census. In fact, it was mentioned that the forms were entered into the system on the day they were formalised, and there could be no delay. On the basis of this, the figures I was talking about are very and very strange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U35	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. I would now like to ask the Prime Minister of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. However, in order to improve traceability, I will read the questions again. The first question: "How is it possible that on March 7, the censusers counted 106,187 people, even though in the next 24 days, between 1,500 and 31,500 people were taken from their homes? What was it anyway? Do you not find it strange that the results of March 7 are that an average of 8,000 forms per day were received within the next 24 days? ' There's nothing weird about it. The data you refer to does not reflect the number of people counted with daily accuracy. This was also not requested. This note is even printed in red on the website of Statistics Estonia. Osundan: 'At the time of the census (from 20.02.2012) the table reflects the personal forms of Estonian residents received from the censuses. For technical reasons, the number may not include all persons counted on the relevant date. ' During the e-Census from 31 December 2011 to 1 February 2012, the publication of the data played an important role in informing the public, to a large extent also as an invitation to count yourself. As there was a strong interest in the census, Statistics Estonia continued to publish the initial number of persons counted during the survey census. Only the number of completed personal forms was published on the home page, the number of forms started but not completed was not included in this figure. On the survey census, the number of persons counted reflected the personal forms that were completed by interviewers and transmitted from laptops to the Statistical Office's information system. Due to the high load on the census information system, the updating of the data on the website was not carried out automatically and time shifts occurred in the data. The update of the table in your inquiry took place on 7 March and brought the number of persons counted into line with the current situation. In this respect, the total number of persons counted also increased significantly. In other words, behind this 107000 are the registration of 'under-inset forms' from 29 February to 7 March. The second question: 'Why were no forms entered into the system from 16 February until 22 February? Was the system not working or was the collection of forms controlled? ' A significantly greater interest in the e-Census than expected by the Estonian population tested the load capacity of the information systems created for the census on several occasions. This also led to changes in the census schedule. The e-count was extended by one day, until 1 February. As the number of forms filled in on the e-Census was very high, the pre-screening work needed to remove duplicates and to compile lists of counters was also more extensive than planned. The beginning of the survey census originally scheduled for 16 February was known to have moved forward by four days, i.e. to 20 February. At the beginning of the survey census, the censuser was familiar with his area of work and agreed with the residents of the region on questioning periods. Therefore, filling out the questionnaires was minimal in the first days of the field work. In addition, during the first days of the census there were failures in the data exchange of the laptops and servers of the censusers. The third question: 'How did the interview forms get into the system? Did this happen right after the form was completed at the countable place at home or later? ' During the survey count, the completed forms of the counters did not automatically move to the Statistical Office's information system immediately after entering the data. After collecting the data, the counter handled the maintenance, reporting and transmission of the addresses, which required internet access. As Estonia as a whole is not covered by a secure data communication network, which was a prerequisite for data transmission, data could not be uploaded to the system at any time. In general, the censuses were based on the principle that the forms are loaded once a day. Due to data problems, as well as the workload and congestion of the system, the difference between filling in the form and reaching the data information system may have been several days, even weeks in some areas of Estonia. The data was encrypted on the counter's laptop and no security risk was involved in delaying the data transmission. Once closed, forms could no longer be opened on the computer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U37	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Please, Mr Stalnukhin, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U38	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! I assume the government always knows a little more than we do. We here may have to wait until the end of this year to find out how many of the 1294000 people who took part in the census have allowed themselves to be counted while being somewhere abroad, many of them working there full-time and having lived there for a long time. Do you know the number of people who took part in the census abroad?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U39	Thank you. The members of the Government of the Republic certainly have no more information than the members of the Riigikogu. The Statistical Office shall disclose its information to all at the same time. Typically, it's about eight o'clock on a working day. The Government of the Republic does not have any special access to information in processing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U40	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U41	Thank you. Prime Minister! If you look at how many people have left Estonia during the restoration of independence, how many people we have lost, there are more than a quarter of a million people. Does that sound like much or little to you, is it reasonable size, and what is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U42	No further questions. Ladies and gentlemen, please react more quickly. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U43	Thank you. I'm sure you know the most important reason. When Estonia's independence was restored, Soviet troops and members of the family of Soviet troops left Estonia. This was the main reason why the population of re-independence in Estonia decreased significantly in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U44	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! The eleventh census not only meant counting people. While it has been possible to obtain more information about the changes in the population through the press, information about housing has remained in the background. There was a briefing once about it, asking when we would find out about it. Then, as has been said, on 17 December we will have an overview of what has happened in our country with housing. Can you inform us of the situation in this sphere right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U45	It would be appropriate to address such questions directly to the Statistical Office. The Prime Minister does not know or mediate this information. The Statistical Office is doing its work very correctly, with the utmost depth. When they are convinced that information is correct, they will present it to the people of Estonia, including members of the Riigikogu and members of the government, via the media.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U46	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U47	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Do you remember anything else like the average salary? It was once a very important matter, for the wages of high officials were thus assigned. In fact, at the time you remember, there were two average salaries. One was completely objective and was calculated by the Tax Administration. It was perfectly accurate because the tax authorities know everything about taxes, they know how much you earn, and they know how to calculate that average salary. At the same time, there was the average wage calculated by Statistics Estonia. It was 25-30% higher than the real average wage. Every time I brought this up, I heard some strange talk in response. The reason, of course, was that on the basis of this imaginary and inflated average wage, the salaries of high officials were taken into account. Everyone was happy with that. Everyone knew that the average wage calculated by Statistics Estonia wasn't true, but everyone was happy with this inflatable number. How can I, knowing this practice, believe the story that just sounded in response to my questions? I will give you examples of only the last month. In December (maybe you'll remember), Statistics Estonia's overview of the municipalities where the population is falling and those where the population is growing was published. In all the papers, charts and color charts were printed. The survey noted that Tallinn's population is declining and that 393000 people live in Tallinn. Two weeks passed, and suddenly we heard that according to the exact data of the population register, nearly 420000 people live in Tallinn. Isn't the difference between reality and the number given by the Statistical Office too big? In fact, the shift is in the direction that is more useful to power politicians at the moment. I took and added up all the population figures in this table. I put together 226 municipalities and got a figure that was different from the census result by 2,000. Please tell me how this is possible! I understand that 2000 people aren't very large even in Estonian terms, but in fact it is a population of two or three medium rural municipalities. How can there be information on the website of one state office that excludes the other from the information there? There's only one thing I'm gonna talk about, because I don't have much time and I have to stick it together somehow. This morning, I opened the homepage of Statistics Estonia. You all know that according to the census, the population of Estonia is 1294000 people. You know what number is on that website right now? The Estonian population in 2012 was 1339000 people. 45,000 is that difference. Explain to me, please, how can you believe a bill like this? What kind of blue - eyed pioneer and optimist must be to believe that the number recorded in the census is true? I'm afraid this isn't about computers or information systems. As with the electronic vote, it is now that we are being deceived. We're just getting jammed with this situation: 'Look, we're better than Latvia and Lithuania! ' We all know perfectly well that only in and near Helsinki is more than 30,000 people from Estonia already living and working. There are huge numbers of people from Estonia in Sweden, Norway, England, Ireland. And here's such a lie! Sometimes you get embarrassed. You may be lying in big questions, and if there is a great purpose, but such a petty lie is shameful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U48	Thank you. The Prime Minister wishes to participate in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U49	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good member of the Riigikogu Mikhail Stalnukhin! Population censuses are known to be organised in order to correct the data in the registers. In general, it is common practice for censuses to be held every ten years throughout Europe and elsewhere in the world. If the registers were all reliable, there would, in principle, be no need for a separate census yet; it would not be necessary to organise this census as a door-to-door survey census. Some countries have been able to make their registers so reliable that they no longer have to go door-to-door to question people; they use a census based on registers. We know, however, that our registers are nowhere near that credibility. There are historical reasons for this. At one time in Soviet times, people were repressed, suggesting that people had violated the passport regime by staying away from registered residence for more than three days. This was, as we know, the reason for the widespread questioning. Therefore, when the independence of the Republic of Estonia was restored, the emotional opposition to the registration of residence was very great. It took time for Estonia to recognise that the state has a right and needs to know at least one legal address for its citizens, and that there is no connection to the Soviet repressive system of writing in order to find out and register a place of residence. Unfortunately, we must admit that we are still paying a fee for the fact that we started registering residence data relatively late. In Finland, Germany, Denmark, it is perfectly natural that when people change their place of residence, they also register their change of residence within a very precise number of days. Unfortunately, it is not yet so natural in Estonia. If you were talking about lies, you should probably have more doubts about registers, because in many cases citizens simply benefit from belonging to one or another municipality. Since registration is often beneficial for people, registers do not reflect reality as accurately as the results of the census. If there were any serious doubts, it would be the registers, but not the census. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U50	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U51	Let's go to the next question. This is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Heimar Leng, Marika Tuus-Laul, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velman, Peeter Võsa, Priit Toobali, Viktor Vassilyev and Lauri Laas concerning the secret tripartite meeting that took place in Finland on 15 November 2012. I would like to ask my colleague, Heimar Leng, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U52	President-in-Office of the Council. It takes a lot of time for questions to be answered, and some events may even be forgotten during that time. I recall that on Saturday, 3 November 2012, the senior leaders of many countries met in Helsinki at the meeting of the trilateral, or tripartite, European Commission. According to the Finnish press, there were 150 participants. Among them were representatives of many countries, namely prime ministers, also the Prime Minister of Estonia. The President of the Republic of Estonia was also present. The meeting was strictly confidential, its venue was not published, and we still do not know. The former Finnish Prime Minister, Esko Aho, who hosted the meeting, defended the secrecy, saying that the purpose of keeping a low profile is to allow free discussion for the public. At the time, the future of the European Union was on the agenda. No one could give a recipe for coming out of the crisis. There was a rumor that at this meeting very secret thoughts were exchanged about the crisis and the future of the European Union, which the people should not know. Since the Estonian press didn't write anything about this meeting either, except for a few lines in Delfi, we thought that we would ask the right Prime Minister who was there, what was the purpose of this meeting, what was said there, and whether there were some secret programmes or recipes for the resolution of the crisis in the European Union. We also want to know the following from the Prime Minister. Do you not think, Mr Ansip, that coming from such meetings could inform some committee or Members a little so that we could know what happened and what was said about our future? All the more so because one news flash though, voters have often asked us about it, thinking that we in Toompea should know about it. But we've had to answer that we don't know anything about Toompea either. So maybe the Prime Minister is kind and in a few words sheds light on the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U53	Thank you very much, Mr Lenk. I would like to ask the Prime Minister once again to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U54	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'Can you explain a little more, which was discussed at the meeting? What was the assessment of the near future of the European Union? ' The trilateral committee, the non-governmental impartial discussion forum, has been aimed at developing dialogue between Europe, North America and the Asia Pacific region since 1973. The Community's objective is to contribute to addressing important international issues. First of all, I stress that there is nothing secret about the trilateral committee and my participation in this meeting. The meeting took place in the Helsinki Town Hall on 3 November just before I flew from Helsinki to Laos, where the European-Asia Summit was held. I participated in a special panel discussion on the development of the Baltic region, organised by the trilateral Commission's European group meeting. I received an invitation to a European group meeting from the Finnish Prime Minister, Jyrki Katais. The panel discussion dedicated to the Baltic region was led by Esko Aho. In addition to me, Latvian Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis and Finnish Euro Minister Alexander Stubb gave a presentation. I haven't made any secret of this event. I encourage the questioners to read the official website of the trilateral committee, where there is a great deal of detailed information, in order to obtain more accurate information. Prior information about my participation in this meeting in Helsinki was already available to everyone on 26 October on the website of both the Government and the Prime Minister. On this basis, information was also published in the Estonian media, for example in your reference to Delfi on 29 October. A more detailed press release on the trilateral committee meeting was published on the Government's website on the day of the meeting, i.e. 3 November. My speech focused on the need to build infrastructure, or connections, in Europe. In short, my message was that the European Union cannot speak of a genuine single market until, in addition to the legal framework, a proper infrastructure linking Europe has been built up. In the longer term, my speech has been referred to in an official press report. The second question: "Is there any reason to believe that the tone of the secret meeting was rather pessimistic in the context of the continuation of the economic crisis and that no concrete proposals were made to remedy the situation? ' The tonality of the panel discussion that took place with me was very constructive. Certainly, toneality was not pessimistic. Question 3: 'Do you not think that participants should at least report to the Home State Parliament on such secret meetings? " Once again, there is no need to overdo the mystery. There is no secret discussion on which public information is available on the organisers' and government's website, and where journalists from the world's leading media publications participated among others. Question 4: 'Did Estonia come up with, or at least talked about, an obligation towards the European Union or a third country at this secret meeting? Talks like that in political circles move. " The answer is no. I recommend that we communicate with more reliable political circles for more accurate information. I have already answered the fifth and sixth questions with previous answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U55	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. No questions for you. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U56	Let's go to the next question. This is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, Kalev Kallo, Priit Toobali, Lauri Laas, Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamme, Viktor Vassilyev and Olga Sõtnik on 20 November 2012 to mitigate the rise in electricity prices. I would like to ask my colleague Kadri Samson of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U57	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! The inquiry concerns the increase in and mitigation of electricity prices. Namely, for a few weeks in Estonia, the price increase caused by the open electricity market has also been experienced by small and medium-sized enterprises and households. When this request was handed over on 20 November, this price increase was still expected. Several authorities warned that price increases will not only be difficult for domestic consumers, but will also affect our economic growth in the coming year. Eesti Pank, for example, announced in its press release of 5 October 2013 that the rising electricity price will make a significant contribution to the price increase in January. Estonia was the country with the fastest price increase in the euro area last year and the price increase is likely to remain one of the highest this year compared to other countries in the euro area. Eesti Pank also stressed that the rise in electricity prices in general has a negative impact on economic growth, as it reduces the real income of households in particular and thus increases consumption and domestic demand. The poorer outlook for the economy will lead to a reduction in both investment and demand for labour in the future. Therefore, mitigating the rise in electricity prices is a very important step, which the government has not done so far. Although the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications has proposed a reduction in renewable energy subsidies as a solution, the draft proposed by the Minister would, unfortunately, also change if everything were to go as the headlines refer to, the electricity market law on renewable energy and cogeneration would only pay EUR 0,17 per cent next year and would reduce the 20% price increase in the electricity bill for consumers by only 1.6%. At the same time, the Competition Authority has pointed out that the change proposed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs could lead some renewable energy producers to receive much more support. In order to mitigate the rise in electricity prices, there is also one way to reduce electricity excise duties, which in Estonia currently exceeds the minimum rate established by the European Union more than four times. The electricity excise rate could be set at a minimum level in the European Union, i.e. one euro, even this year. This would reduce the increase in electricity bills by a quarter. The Centre Party has given this draft twice to the proceedings of the Riigikogu and both times the draft has been voted out. It's the third time this year. To date, the opening of the electricity market is a fact. The fact is also that several small and medium-sized companies pay for their larger electricity bills by increasing the price of services and goods. However, it is not inevitable that in the European Union, a higher price of electricity should come to everyone. On the contrary, the latest quarterly report from the European Commission's Directorate-General for Energy on the electricity market clearly states that while retail markets are open to competition, most Member States will continue to regulate prices for selected domestic and industrial customers. We can see that regulated prices apply, for example, to all households in the Netherlands, but also to a large part of French households (96%) or Danish households (92%). Directive No 72 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2009 on common rules for the internal market in electricity clearly states in Article 3, point 7, that Member States are taking measures to ensure the necessary supply of electricity to vulnerable customers in order to address the issues of energy poverty identified, including in the wider context of poverty. Member States are allowed to do so through energy plans, energy efficiency improvements and social security incentives. In several countries, poorer people can use regulated electricity. Finally. One of our questions concerns what the Estonian Government is doing to help people who are the poorest and who have already spent nine euros of the 100 euros at their disposal before the price increase. I don't read out any other questions. The Prime Minister himself will be more comfortable to read the question and answer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U58	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. I would like to ask the Prime Minister once again to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U59	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'Estonia Energia currently offers a fixed-term contract with a duration of 6 months at a price of 4.76 cents/kWh. Today's regulated price is 3.15 cents/kWh. Why is the government opposed to reducing electricity excise duty and thereby reducing the rise in electricity prices? " Unfortunately, tax policy cannot effectively combat either electricity or other energy price increases. Energy prices would inevitably continue to rise even if energy could be sold free of tax. Lowering electricity excise duty would not help those most in need, as electricity is more consumed in wealthier households. According to surveys by Statistics Estonia, families who do not use electricity directly for heating spend 2.8% of the family's budget on electricity. According to Eesti Energia, 5.5% of consumers use the heating package. In comparison, I refer to the fact that, for example, transport costs 11% of the average household budget and food costs as much as 24%, i.e. several times more than electricity. The current excise duty is around 4% of the electricity price of the household consumer. Thus, the share of excise duty in the final price of electricity can be considered to be very low. In the lowest rates of income and expenditure, households could save only two or three euros on average per year as a result of a reduction in excise duty. This is not enough to improve the lives of the population. However, these people and many others will benefit greatly from the EUR 33 million planned to receive electricity excise duties from the state budget in 2013. Money is needed in education, health care and many other areas. The second question: 'While electricity markets are open in many countries, domestic consumers are treated as vulnerable consumers in these countries, so price regulation is in place in these countries, allowing low-income consumers to sell a certain amount of lower-tariff electricity. Why has your government not considered the introduction of such regulation in Estonia as a major spokesperson for needs-based subsidies? How, for example, did Sweden resolve the transition to an open electricity market? " The government really thinks the right direction for need-based subsidies, not for inefficient tax incentives. People's income and electricity prices are already linked to income support. The introduction of an additional mechanism that would make electricity cheaper for those who are currently doing less well would also be technically unreasonable. Rather, we find examples to the contrary in Europe where the lower excise duty is also paid by larger consumers among private individuals. In the Netherlands, for example, those who consume up to 10 megawatt-hours of electricity pay an excise duty of EUR 114, but those who consume more than 10000 megawatt-hours cost only EUR 0,5 per megawatt-hour. In those countries where the price of electricity used by domestic consumers is regulated, there are always mechanisms to compensate sellers for the price difference, which has led to an increase in the tax burden on the rest of consumers. Estonia has so far followed the principle that the law does not provide special tariffs for vulnerable consumers, but supports these people through the Social Welfare Act. We have wanted to ensure that the electricity market is transparent and effective when drawing up the regulation. While the questioners refer to excise duty in the case of Sweden, the only specific decision concerning domestic consumers has been that a third lower excise duty rate has been imposed in Northern Sweden. Instead of the general rate of 31,66 euros per megawatt-hour, the rate is 20,96 euros, which is almost five times higher than the excise rate in Estonia. In addition, 25% VAT will be added as a universality. Question 3: 'The state has taken very large volumes of dividends out of Eesti Energia in recent years. These dividends receive a large amount of income tax from the state budget and are then moved back to the company through capital increases. Is the use of such a scheme not hidden taxation? " The owner's additional capital for new investments and the dividend on profits are common business phenomena, as well as income tax on the dividend withdrawn. The profit of Eesti Energia has, as we know, also been an additional source of revenue for the state budget. Question 4: 'Estonia has recently managed a sad ranking: inflation has been either the highest in Estonia or one of the highest in the European Union. Will the government listen to Eesti Pank and use the options in its hands to mitigate the rise in electricity prices? ' Estonia is currently one of the European countries with faster economic and wage growth. Inevitably, this will lead to higher prices. The fact that the average price level in the European Union is, as we know, more than 25% higher than the level in Estonia is conducive to faster price growth. I must also stress once again that increasing demand and limited resources make further increases in energy prices inevitable worldwide. In the longer term, it is unlikely to be distorted by the introduction of shale gas or other technological innovations, not least by reducing energy taxes. Daily habits have a greater impact on our citizens' electricity bill than electricity excise duty and total VAT. Your daily habits must be monitored: when purchasing a new household appliance or light bulbs, you need to keep an energy class in mind and you need to put out lights when leaving. All of this can save a lot more money than it takes for taxes. Once again, the cheapest electricity is saved electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U60	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Let's start asking questions. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U61	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Among other things, the price of electricity is still high on our network charges. We have network charges, or electricity transmission charges, well above the European Union average, almost three times higher than in Finland, even above Latvia. This year it will rise by 13%, last year it will rise by 9%. If we have asked the Minister for Economic Affairs why this is still the case, he will say that we have a sparsely populated country. In fact, Finland is twice as sparsely populated, so this is not an argument. Why do we still have network charges so high? In fact, it is quite a matter of government administration that can regulate these matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U62	Thank you. You probably don't expect there to be one answer. But if I have to give one answer or one basic argument, it is investments that have not been made over the years and decades. At the moment, we need to invest a lot in our electricity grid in order to ensure security of supply. In a similar situation, there have been people in East Germany, for example. At one time, East Germany was dissatisfied with the fact that the fee for drinking water and waste water treatment was about four times higher than for the population of West Germany receiving a much higher salary. This, of course, also depended on local government, but unfortunately the explanation was simple and harsh. While West Germany had made sufficient investments to ensure good drinking water quality and adequate treatment of waste water, East Germany had not made these investments in 50 years, but of course environmental standards were one day equal for both East and West Germany. Estonia's electricity supply and security of supply have improved much in recent years. Investment has been made in reserve capacity, still so that there is no risk of electricity being lost. We know that Estlink's second cable is being built, which is not cheap, but which is crucial for Estonia from the point of view of security of supply. Such investments have now been made in Estonia's transmission networks very much and have not been excessive in any way. These are essential investments that should have been made in the past decades.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U63	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U64	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! You have to be very careful to quote a newspaper these days. That's why I just have a very specific question. Is it true that when you were asked how to resist an increase in electricity prices, you suggested that you use less electricity?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U65	The price increase cannot be countered by less use, but the cost of electricity is considerably reduced when it is consumed less. Those who claim that there is no room for energy saving in Estonia are certainly wrong. On the contrary, by looking at the reference tables on energy intensity, i.e. the use of electricity per capita, we see that we are among the countries in the European Union that use electricity most, for example, to create a unit of gross domestic product. Thus, there are very many savings opportunities in the Estonian economy as a whole. Much has also been said about heating costs. In Estonia, there is still a further cubic meter of energy spent on the office space or living space surface, there is not much difference between two times as much energy as it takes in Finland, for example. It could be assumed that Finland is a colder country, yet they use energy twice as efficiently as we do to heat the rooms. Therefore, the call for more attention to be paid to improving the efficiency of energy use must be taken very seriously. Of course, some progress has also been made in Estonia. Thanks to the sale of emission allowances under the Kyoto Treaty, we have additional resources in the order of EEK 6 billion, or EUR 400 million. A considerable part of this has gone to improve the insulation of buildings belonging to the state and local authorities as well as of apartment buildings. This is a remarkable victory for people whose apartment building has been insulated because of this program.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U66	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! The government coalition you run has twice rejected the Central Party's proposal to lower electricity excise duties. This has been the case with the argument that those in trouble cannot benefit from this reduction in excise duty. I'm sure you can't agree with that. But your government likes to impose needs-based subsidies. In 2005, when the Centre Party and the Reform Party were in government, the price of room temperature rose significantly. At that time, the Common Government of the Centre Party and the Reform Party decided to provide additional support to domestic consumers. All domestic consumers were supported, with a price increase of more than 20% for district heating. Have you not considered that, in addition to the payment of income support, a similar mechanism could be used to mitigate the rise in electricity prices?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U68	Thank you. As I have already said, we support those in need through social benefits, especially income support. It is not basically right to stimulate inefficient energy use with tax relief. There are countries far richer than us, where the tax rates for natural gas or electricity are several times higher than in Estonia. For example, electricity excise duty is 24 times higher in Denmark. I think that obtaining tax revenue may not be the main objective in these countries for which energy is taxed at relatively high rates compared to other Member States of the European Union, including Estonia. The main objective is to stimulate more sustainable energy use by tax policy. We get EUR 33 million in electricity excise duty. With this EUR 33 million, we can help those who are really the most in need and need state aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U69	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U70	Thank you. Prime Minister! The electricity excise duty in force in Estonia is 4.47 euros per megawatt-hour, with VAT at 5.36 euros per megawatt-hour. At the same time, the Energy Taxation Directive provides for a minimum rate of EUR 0,5 per megawatt-hour for commercial and EUR 1 per megawatt-hour for non-commercial uses. This higher rate of excise duty came into force since 2007 and increased in 2009. Juhan Parts, Minister of Economic Affairs of your government, has failed to explain to entrepreneurs what, based on the calculations, this excise duty was introduced in Estonia. Can you tell us what the calculations were, why it is appropriate to add this excise duty to electricity in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U71	Thank you. As we know, before the introduction of electricity excise duties in Estonia, electricity production had been taxed at air pollution charge. Due to the European Union Directive, the introduction of electricity excise duty became mandatory for Estonia as well. When we introduced the electricity excise, we basically replaced the air pollution charge with the electricity excise. The air pollution charge charged the local electricity producer and created a better competitive position for imported electricity. Estonia's tax policy should certainly not worsen the production conditions of local producers. Therefore, it was also correct to replace the air pollution charge with an electricity excise duty in fiscal terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U72	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U73	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! As a result of the increase in the selling price of electricity, the amount of VAT received by the State on electricity also increases. Can you tell me how much, thanks to the increase in electricity in the open market, the state will receive additional VAT?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U74	Thank you. I'm not ready to name a particular amount right now from this talking board. 33 million euros is the amount of electricity excise duty collected from the state budget. In order to know how much the increase in the price of electricity is coming to the budget in the form of VAT, simple calculations must be made. It is not possible to say in very concrete terms today how much this amount is, but I assume that this has been taken into account in the preparation of the budget. In principle, the projections indicated that electricity prices would increase as a result of the obligation to purchase carbon dioxide emission quotas and not as a result of the opening-up of the electricity market. This increase was expected to be in the order of 20%.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U75	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U76	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! You have so calmly and positively explained from this remote control that recent investments in electricity production and networks have been made, cables have been built and the state has done all this, and the citizens have done it so far, they have paid their electricity bills well, but the fact that the electricity market had to open up and the networks and power plants were broken up is due to European demands, to the directive. Why, then, do we have people in Brussels who represent Estonia? Couldn't you have put this thing off or told us about the special circumstances? It was known that all of this would increase the cost of electricity used by the residents so that they would no longer be able to pay. Perhaps the salaries of Members of the European Parliament should be saved and called back?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U77	As has already been said, the price of electricity is rising not because the electricity market is opening up, but because the price of electricity in Estonia has risen because our main electricity producer, Eesti Energia, now has to purchase the carbon dioxide emission quotas needed to produce electricity for money. That's why the price of electricity is increasing. Of course, it would be much better for Estonia if we were more closely connected to other European Union markets. Much has been asked whether it would have been more reasonable to open the electricity market only after Estlink's second cable is already running. There is a very unambiguous answer to this: Estonia lacked such an opportunity. As we know, in order to build Estlink's second cable, we received an additional EUR 100 million from the European Union. The will of both Estonia and Finland is, of course, needed to build. In spite of the considerable support from the European Union, Finns did not agree to invest a single cent in this project until the Estonian electricity market had opened up according to the law. It's such a beak-knuckle-tail-open situation. But let it be said once again that the price increase that we are all experiencing today is not due to the opening up of the electricity market, but to the obligation to buy carbon dioxide emission quotas. If CO2 emission quotas had to be purchased a year ago, this increase would have taken place a year earlier. The fact that the market would have been closed or open would not have had a significant impact on electricity prices. In the longer term, of course, this will have an impact, as the open market will ensure security of supply and also the lowest price.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U78	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I am opening negotiations and I would like to ask my colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U79	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, This issue offers an opportunity to discuss how consistent some political parties are. I am now reminded of how, in 1999, when, for the first time, it became clear that there was a threat to Estonia from HIV and AIDS, which began to spread at the time, a party partner of the Prime Minister, a party member of the Reform Party, came here and made a recommendation on how to slip past HIV and AIDS. From this bleacher, he made a suggestion to keep his rooster in his pants. He became famous for that sentence. Very good advice, don't do anything. If the price of electricity increases and you can no longer pay for an apartment, for example, you will have additional obligations to the bank (these people who are likely to be evicted are just under a thousand this year and this number will increase every year), just do not consume. Just don't do drugs and that's it! This shows consistency in the policy of the Reform Party. The topic under discussion also gives an idea that some political parties are not consistent. The promise of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association to make home expenses twice smaller wasn't until two years ago. There's no match for that policy that's turning into our lives right now. Such very different forces are in the government together. So what's to wonder about what's going on in our economy right now? To those who listen to us, to watch, and maybe later, to read what we talked about here, I want to explain that the increase in electricity prices is beneficial for the government. Such measures are the only ones that will help to cope with the very poor situation of our economy. If a good or service costs EUR 100, the state will receive VAT of EUR 20 from it. If, as a result of inflation or some kind of international agreements, the same goods or services will already cost EUR 150 within a short period of time, then the country will already receive EUR 30 of VAT from our pocket. The more expensive goods and services are, the more beneficial it will be for a government that wants nothing to do in the field of employment or in the creation of a real economy and industry. It's self-evident. It would be very interesting to watch in two years' time how many thousands of people in Estonia have been able to cheat with their promise to lower prices (so I think it is best to say here, not to bring them down, but to shoot them) or to reach the top five. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U80	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U81	Ladies and gentlemen, The rise in electricity prices can be seen as the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi feels, who has said that this price increase will be forgotten by people, and it is not worth worrying about. But when you communicate with people who are seriously and every day worried about paying utility bills, you can see that it doesn't go away. There are too many families who have installed electric heating in their homes a few years ago, not in the very distant past, and who are so hurtful about this increase in the price of electricity that they are beginning to think about how to survive this winter. Unfortunately, Estonia is located in climate zones where electricity is not a luxury commodity that may or may not be consumed. Since we have a dark and cold winter, electricity is part of our survival strategy. Too many families already use as little as possible. Several research and otherwise influential authorities have pointed out that the state does not use the levers it has to ensure that electricity is not so expensive. One can begin with the fact that the investments of Eesti Energia have been more than incomprehensible on several occasions. This may not be the case for the Prime Minister, because the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications does not go over all the sub-offices in his field and does not know where and why investments are being made. However, the Government and the Head of Government are responsible for the way in which the dividend has been withdrawn from Eesti Energia over the years, certainly also for the fact that the higher price of electricity is planned for better VAT receipts year after year. Even if consumption does not increase, but people simply have to pay a higher price for the same service, the state can report that VAT is being paid at a record rate. When I introduced this topic, I introduced the position of Eesti Pank. Eesti Pank has said that if the increase in the price of electricity is not done, it will have a negative impact on Estonia's economic growth and job creation capacity. Praxis, a research company, has also said that it is possible for the state to influence the final price of electricity. As we know, 35.9% of the electricity bill of a normal user is network services, followed by the price of electricity on the free market (32,5% wide), value added tax (16.7%), renewable energy fee (10.3%) and electricity excise duty (4.7%). National taxes are a decision of the state and the state can also reduce the final price by reducing national taxes. We have talked very much about electricity excise duty, which is 4.47 times higher in Estonia than the European Union demands. In addition to electricity excise duties, it is possible to reduce VAT in order to influence the final price of electricity. In Estonia, electricity is taxed at a higher rate, i.e. 20%, including the standard rate of VAT added to the renewable energy fee and the electricity excise duty. However, if renewable energy charges and electricity taxes are reduced, the VAT received will also be reduced. In some countries of the European Union, electricity is not subject to full VAT. For example, only 5% is added in Britain, although the standard VAT rate is 20%. The Minister for Economic Affairs has promoted a reduction in the renewable energy fee, which, however, has only a 1.5% effect on the price increase, which is not enough for such an increase. Thus, the increase in electricity prices is currently being used to implement the state budget. Compensation for the poorest families who had already spent EUR 9 out of 100 euros before the price increase to pay the electricity bill is clearly not sufficient. These families, in turn, are also hit by an increase in the price of food and services, as small and medium-sized companies still have to recover their higher production costs from the consumer's pocket. The state could use the levers it has in the form of taxes to make this price increase softer for Estonian residents and business. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U82	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U83	The next question is the inquiry into the Public Procurement Act submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Priit Toobali, Yana Toomi, Enn Eesmaa, Kalev Kallo, Aadu Musta, Valeri Korbi, Marika Tuus-Lauli and Ester Tuiksoo on 10 December 2012. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U84	Dear Chairman, Prime Minister! On 10 December last year, I, together with my colleagues, presented an inquiry to the Prime Minister on the subject of the Public Procurement Act. § 1 of the Public Procurement Act provides for the purpose of ensuring the transparent, rational and sustainable use of the contracting authority's funds, equal treatment of persons and effective use of existing competitive conditions in public procurement. In recent months of last year, a number of unfortunate cases where public procurement procedures had been violated were brought to the public via various media. Problems in complying with public procurement procedures have proved to be so great that the National Audit Office has repeatedly considered it necessary to draw the public's attention to this issue. On 3 February last year, the National Audit Office's report entitled 'Organisation to establish the Victory Pillar of the War of Freedom' was completed. The audit noted that the main cause of the monument's shortcomings was the hurriedness of political pressure. The designer and builder of the Samba was chosen too quickly, i.e. without a substantive competition. Due to the high time pressure, the organisation of several procurements did not follow the good practice of public procurement, and overall, the creation of the winning pillar became more expensive than expected and planned by nearly 2.1 million euros. On 3 December last year, Auditor General Mihkel Oviir replied to the members of the Riigikogu's inquiry into the new oil shale energy blocks of Eesti Energia and stated that the National Audit Office found that the law on public procurement was violated in the construction of new oil shale boilers in less than two cases. Last December, the article 'Rein Raud and Ignar Fjuk built the TLU house without a competition' was published in the Estonian Päevaleht. The article described how the sketch project covering 2000 square metres grew to a building site of 11000 square metres, and the architectural bureau that had tendered for a sketch project of EEK 90000 was finally paid EUR 75000. The parties themselves commented that the building was built without an additional projector being set up for lack of time because of the urgent need to mobilise the European grant. The above cases are just a few examples of where there has been, or may have been, a breach of the Public Procurement Act and good practice in organising public procurement. This situation, however, according to the respondents, seriously undermines the reputation of the Estonian state and may deter entrepreneurs from participating in public procurement. On 10 December last year, we asked the Prime Minister a total of six questions on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U85	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. To answer the Prime Minister's question, please ask the speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'Does the 'quick adoption' of euro money release all projects from the public competition in the future? ' The Public Procurement Act must also apply without exception to all projects carried out by co-financing structural grants. It is very important to comply with the Public Procurement Act when using structural grants, as the violation of this law leads not only to the punishment of the infringer but also to the recognition of the costs of the infringement as ineligible and to a reduction in the amount of subsidies. The second question: 'How many other public buildings have been excluded from public competitions? " According to public procurement statistics, 6266 public procurements were carried out in 2011 at a total cost of EUR 1 billion 885 million. Construction commissioning accounted for 19% of total public procurement in 2011, i.e. 1221 procurements, and 49% of total public procurement costs (924 million euros). In 2011, 4% of public procurement contracts were contested by the Public Procurement Dispute Committee. This indicator is the lowest among the Member States of the European Union. According to the Public Procurement Register, orders for works increased significantly in 2012. As of December 2022, there had been public contracts for the commissioning of works, with a total of 8780 contracts. However, the volume of disputes decreased in 2012, remaining at 2,9%. The Ministry of Finance, as a public supervisor in public procurement, has no data on public buildings built in breach of the regulation of the Public Procurement Act. Similarly, no appropriate requests for the initiation of a surveillance procedure have been received for monitoring purposes. Where structural grants are used, payments shall be made subject to control over all procurements made and contracts awarded. In doing so, more and less irregularities and the resulting ineligible costs are constantly detected. Overviews of infringements detected in connection with the granting of structural grants have been published on the website of the Ministry of Finance. The third question: 'How and what are these concrete steps for the future in order to avoid a repeat of analogous cases? ' The possibility that a contracting authority knowingly or unawarely violates the law on public procurement can never be completely ruled out. In particular, improved knowledge of public procurement law and effective control of the activities of contracting authorities will help to prevent unlawful behaviour. The Ministry of Finance is working every day to improve the awareness of suppliers. Contracting authorities, tenderers and interested parties shall be advised by telephone and e-mail. As of November 2012, 1375 requests for advice had been answered in writing. Free training will be organised, and the public procurement register's helpdesk will be provided. Public procurement information is constantly updated on the e-Procurement environment information portal. National supervision and out-of-court proceedings for misdemeanours will undoubtedly have a preventive effect on breach of the Public Procurement Act. As of November 2012, the Ministry of Finance had carried out 52 monitoring procedures and 8 misdemeanour proceedings. Among other things, public procurement carried out in the framework of projects financed by euro will be subject to scrutiny by implementing entities and implementing bodies. In the case of structural grants, both implementing authorities and entities have continuously informed the beneficiaries. In most cases, the problem is not the lack of information or knowledge, but the individual choices made by beneficiaries. Question 4: Has the Government of the Republic planned to develop a draft that would make procurement more transparent? ' The current Public Procurement Act is based on the relevant directives and aims to ensure transparency and auditability of public procurement. The current regulation ensures transparency of public procurement when it comes to compliance. Question 5: "What example does this behaviour of Tallinn University set for the public? Does it not call for others to use the same scheme in the future? ' Tallinn University is a legal person governed by public law, acting autonomously on the basis of university law, other legislation and its statutes and responsible for its management decisions independently. According to the Ministry of Education and Research, the activities prior to the design and construction procurement were incorrect. In 2006, the project was awarded with an estimated volume of around 2 000 square metres. At the same time, the volume of the contract changed significantly during the work and eventually increased to 11000 square metres. In the event of significant changes in volume and cost, the need to organise a new competition must be considered under the law. Under the Public Procurement Act, changes to contracts are permitted in objective circumstances, but certainly this should not be done to avoid the procedure set out in the Act. According to the Ministry of Education and Research, Rector Rein Raud would have acted according to the meaning of the law if he had chosen to organise a new competition. Question 6: "Did you think it was justified not to organise a public competition for the Astra school building at Tallinn University? ' It is certainly important that public universities are open and transparent when making their choices. If Rector Rein Raud's decision not to hold a new open tender was also formally correct, the process should have been more open and the reasons for not organising the procurement clearer to the public in view of the university's mission and role. I agree with those who consider that it is not justified not to organise a public competition with such a prominent location in the case of a new construction built in the city centre of Tallinn. Finally. I have to admit, it was hard enough to find out about this case and find evidence. On several occasions it was claimed that not all circumstances were simply remembered. I suppose that could be the case. It appears to have been proven that the planned volume of the Tallinn University Science House increased more than five times from 2,000 square metres, that no new public competition was organised after the modified initial task, and that the entire design work was eventually awarded by the newly hired architectural bureau. It is certainly an important building in the public space, along the road to the Song Festival Square, Kadriorg Park and the Ice Box. This building deserved a public competition. However, the Ministry of Finance considers that what has happened is legally correct and, if not, the time limits for possible monitoring and misdemeanour proceedings have expired. According to the Ministry of Education and Research, at least these transactions are doubtful about the meaning of the law. The whole process should have been much more public and more justified. According to Eesti Päevaleht, the public competition was also considered more honest by the architectural bureau itself. The rector of Tallinn University has now changed and possible procedural deadlines have expired. If it is considered necessary to give an ethical assessment of the design of the Astra school building at Tallinn University, it would be right for the NGO to do so first and foremost with regard to its spokespersons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U87	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U88	Thank you. I have another point to clarify. In the meantime, you said that the law on public procurement must apply without exception. If we look at this situation, what is the amount of money that would have made it mandatory under the law to tender?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U89	Right now, I don't think it's a violation of the law. Procurement has been organised, but I believe that an architectural solution should have been found, firstly, an architectural competition and, secondly, an open tender. It wasn't done. An open call for an sketch solution was organised. It was won by an architectural bureau, and the price they offered was 90,000 kroons by memory. Further, an already targeted offer was made to the same company that made the sketch solution, and more than one million kroons were paid out to it. It is usually the case that in cities, new buildings are not built in prominent places simply on the basis of a customer's sense of beauty, but a public architectural competition is organised in order to get the best architectural solution. The public competition for architecture also means that all townspeople are able to express their opinions. At the moment, the city was simply not involved. When the joint design and construction procurement was finally carried out, I can imagine that the construction company no longer had very many choices. If he wanted to start from scratch, he should have set up a competition for architecture, open procurement for an architectural solution, etc. He was already in a state of compulsion. The previous process had led to the fact that the company that won the design and construction procurement was best placed to continue its work with the one who had developed the sketch solution and the architectural solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U90	Thank you very much. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U91	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister! You said that all kinds of complaints have expired or gone by today. The rector's changed in college. Who would have had to supervise the rector when he made those decisions? What is your personal opinion as to why the Rector chose not to announce a new competition?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U92	It was the rector's personal choice. Legally, this option can indeed be correct. Although the former Rector has indicated that he has carried out these activities in accordance with the Ministry of Education and Research, I have the opposite information. The Ministry of Education and Research does not endorse the claims made by former Rector Rein Raud to follow their instructions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U93	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U94	Thank you, Madam President. In the meantime, I pressed the "Word" button because I thought I could file my application on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U95	While you're here, you can talk from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U96	Every Monday, when we sit here and listen to the answers to our questions, I once again make sure that there are two Estonias that, formally, have one and the same law, but one side is exempt from their application and the other is not only required to comply with them, but have to comply with them on a point-by-point basis. I have been a member of the Public Procurement Commission in my beloved Narva for over eight years. I say to you that in local governments, especially where there are no reformists in power or the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance, the law is followed in such a way that every point is 100% respected, every letter and every requirement that is in the law is followed, in order to avoid any conflict with the law, because no one wants to go to the co-poss and hear any empty accusations afterwards. The law is the same, but it is executed in a completely different style, depending on where the place is and who is in power there. There's no sense of humor here. I know exactly that if a story like this had happened to us, it would have ended with a search, handcuffs and other crap, as happens even if there is no described situation, but everything is much simpler and more relaxed. It was just a line and a fact. There are really two Estonias. Although they are geographically located in the same place and have the same laws, they are two completely different Estonias. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U97	Thank you. Any more calls? There are no final requests. Negotiations have been concluded and the debate on this item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U98	We're going to the next item. This is an inquiry by Priit Toobali, Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendijev, Heimar Leng, Enn Eesmaa, Ester Tuiksoo, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korbi and Marika Tuus-Laul to the Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur on 15 November 2012 regarding the control of security agencies. In the name of the heirs, Priit Toobal comes from the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 15 November last year, I and my colleagues presented an inquiry from the Central Party Group to the Minister of Justice, Kristen Michal. Today, the Minister has changed and the Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur, will answer the question. A number of research and research articles, articles and specific cases that have emerged in recent years on the legality of surveillance activities refer to the topicality of the legality of surveillance activities in Estonia. In recent years, a number of surveillance-related events have become public, such as cases of corruption involving officials from intelligence agencies that received a lot of media attention and illegal intelligence by intelligence authorities. They also point to the importance of monitoring the legality of surveillance activities. The existing control mechanisms are formal and their effectiveness has been repeatedly criticised. Most critical comments have been received in the field of criminal intelligence. Discussions have been carried out on the intrinsic boundaries of surveillance activities, expansion of surveillance activities, real necessity, danger, formal control of efficiency and other issues. There is essentially no effective and systematic control of security authorities in Estonia. The European Court of Human Rights has recognised that allowing the secret surveillance of persons, which is characteristic of a police state, can only be tolerated under the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms to the extent strictly necessary for the protection of democratic institutions. In the same judgment, the European Court of Human Rights states that surveillance activities are necessary under exceptional conditions in a democratic society in the interests of national security and prevention of disorder or crime. In view of the cases that came to light last year, I believe that this security authority control mechanism, which is currently in Estonia (I am referring to the committee, where only Members of Parliament are Members), is not working. I do not want to criticise the composition of the Commission or its work. The existing mechanism simply does not work and the Commission does not have sufficient resources. In this regard, on 15 November last year, together with my colleagues, I put together five questions to the Minister of Justice. We expect answers from the Minister of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U100	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for a chair of speech from Secretary of Justice, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Good evening. I am pleased to answer the questions put to the Minister of Justice. I will start with the first question as to whether Estonia has sufficient control over security authorities compared to other countries of the European Union to ensure the protection of fundamental rights of persons. In answering such a question, it is worth starting with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and looking at what it says. § 4 of the Constitution states that the activities of the Riigikogu, the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic and the courts are organised on the basis of separation and balance of powers. The three branches of power of the State.. executive, legislative and judicial authorities.. play an important role in national security policy and impose appropriate and effective countermeasures when security authorities have exceeded or abused their powers. The legislative authority shall exercise parliamentary oversight by adopting laws determining and regulating the powers of the security authorities and by approving the corresponding budgetary allocations. The management may also include the appointment of a parliamentary committee which may open investigations into security authorities. If you look at the Security Authorities Act in more detail, according to § 36, this special committee is the Riigikogu Security Authorities Supervisory Commission. Supervision of the authorities of the executive state in relation to the activities of security authorities and surveillance authorities and the protection of fundamental rights is being carried out by the Commission on the issues I have just mentioned. To this end, the Prime Minister and the Minister concerned are also obliged to inform the Commission, at least twice a year, of the activities of security authorities and surveillance of their activities. When looking at the rights of the Commission to which the heirs refer, the Commission has the right to invite persons and to request documents for inspection in order to carry out its tasks. The Commission will, inter alia, discuss the budgets of the security authorities and present an overview of its activities and results to the Riigikogu at least once a year. I would point out here that, if the Commission discovers an infringement, it is obliged to forward these materials to the investigating authority or to the Chancellor of Justice. When it comes to the role of Chancellor of Justice, he has the right to control the compliance of the activities of security authorities with the Constitution and other laws. In the sense of § 19 of the Chancellor of Justice Act, everyone has the right to appeal to the Chancellor of Justice for the defence of their rights to check whether the security authority complies with the principle of fundamental rights and freedoms and with good administrative practice. The Chancellor of Justice shall initiate proceedings on the basis of an application by a person or of information received to him on his own initiative. The prosecutor's office, in turn, supervises surveillance activities in criminal proceedings. Only with the permission of the court and at the reasoned request of the prosecutor can people's fundamental rights be identified as being most affected by surveillance activities. Everyone has the right to apply to the courts in accordance with the procedure laid down by law and to claim damages if the security authority has infringed his or her rights. According to the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, a decision of the executive power which cannot materially be subject to appeal in the judicial system is not a legitimate interference with Article 6 (1) of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which states that there is a right of access to justice. An important aspect here is the awareness of individuals about their rights. Their protection in the judicial system also means the most effective, objective and independent control of the activities of the security authorities. In the context of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, Estonia has designated non-governmental institutions that exercise independent and independent control over security institutions. Such principles are also followed for the purposes of the supervision of security authorities in other Member States of the European Union. The second question: 'How can the public contribute to the civil control of security authorities? ' It must certainly be admitted that the public has an important role to play in the control of security authorities. If you look at the media more closely, it is clear that the importance of the media in reflecting the activities of security authorities has increased significantly in Estonia and the world at large in this century. The importance of the press in civil control of security authorities lies, for example, in raising awareness of the importance of protecting fundamental rights in society. Similarly, the treatment of human rights in the media directly or indirectly increases citizens' awareness of their rights and measures that can be taken to protect their fundamental rights. The media play a major role in illuminating the activities of security authorities, as the activities of security authorities are usually not public. However, civil control is of course necessary under the conditions of confidentiality, otherwise there may not be undue errors in intelligence and intelligence or in-house corruption as a result of secrecy. In summary, it can be said that the security authorities are, of course, accountable to the public and must also report to it. The third question: 'What conclusions have you made in relation to this year (This is then last year). .P.) research activities in which fundamental human rights have been violated? " I dare to believe that conclusions can be drawn as to whether the fundamental rights of people have been violated in the course of the investigation, however, are competent judges who make a legal assessment of the particular circumstances. I am certainly not going to make these assessments here. However, I note that the violation of fundamental rights of individuals does not yet constitute a violation of human rights. According to the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, interference with the integrity of private and family life is legitimate if it is necessary in a democratic society, in accordance with the laws and laws that have taken place. The same principle has been described in § 26 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which talks about family and privacy. The criterion of necessity, according to the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, is not equivalent to the term "unreplaceable', but is not characterised by flexibility characterising words such as 'allowable', 'normal', 'useful' or'reasonable'. The imposition of restrictions on the rights set out in the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms must meet an urgent societal need and be proportionate to the legitimate objective pursued. In doing so, the norms of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which provide for exceptions to protected rights, must be interpreted strictly according to the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights. It should also be borne in mind that countries have a certain margin of discretion in imposing restrictions on the rights enshrined in the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, but only the European Court of Human Rights can make a final assessment of their legality and compliance with the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. National law must have a legal basis which lays down the conditions and limits for the adoption of a specific measure. The consequences of a measure taken by a security authority must be legally foreseeable, clearly worded and accessible to the person. The discretion given to the body carrying out the inspection must be clearly defined, and any surveillance activity must comply with the provisions of the law and be impartial. According to § 3 (2) of the Security Authorities Act, the security authority must use only the necessary means to carry out its tasks. Where a number of possible measures are available, use shall be made of those which restrict the fundamental rights of persons as little as possible in relation to the performance of their tasks as a security authority. A measure which does not unduly prejudice the fundamental rights of an individual compared to the objective pursued by a security authority may be used. Question 4: "What changes in laws are the Ministry of Justice planning to give people confidence that their rights will not be violated and to strengthen their control over security agencies? 'This is where I can draw your attention to the points of the government's programme of action 'Constitutional and Democracy', 'Security Estonia / Legal Order', 'From e-State to i-State'. They show that the work plan of the Ministry of Justice for 2013 has the task of clarifying the current regulation of background and security control, surveillance and intelligence activities and the supervision of security authorities in accordance with the Constitution and the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Ministry of Justice intends to deal with the following issues from the point of view of the regulation of security authorities. Firstly, measures taken by the executive authorities to check the background of persons and to grant access to state secrets or for other purposes. Secondly, information procurement measures by executive authorities in constitutional order proceedings, including threats arising from inside or outside the State. Thirdly, monitoring the legality and purpose of the information procurement measures applied to protect the constitutional order of the executive authorities. Consequently, in 2013 the Ministry of Justice aims to draw up a concept of constitutional order protection. The main sub-topics of the concept are background and security control, criminal investigation, law enforcement and supervision of security authorities. We have also planned to look at the analogue countries here. We have chosen Germany, Finland, Slovenia, Great Britain and the United States to be these countries. Of course, we have also investigated the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Question 5: 'How do you feel about the creation of more resources and a more professional mixed committee for more effective and systematic control of security authorities, whose work would involve, in addition to the representatives of the political groups of the Riigikogu, specialists-experts who, due to their previous professional experience, are familiar with the specifics of the work of security authorities, and representatives of constitutional institutions? ' Long question. But here's the answer. If you look at the countries of the European Union more generally, as I pointed out in the case of Estonia, the common practice is precisely the establishment of a special parliamentary committee responsible for controlling all security authorities. At the same time, there are different examples. For example, in the Czech Republic, Romania and Slovakia, a special parliamentary committee has been set up for each security authority. This will ensure greater specialisation, but there is a risk that some issues of importance for supervision may remain outside the mandate of the special committees. This could create such grey areas and, therefore, the potential gaps in the division of competences of the committees could leave important issues of control by the authorities unaddressed. As far as experts are concerned, their involvement in the work of the special committees should take into account the fact that, unlike representatives directly elected by the public, the specialist lacks democratic legitimacy for the control of security authorities. This is definitely the minus side. If you look at the fact that the advantage of involving specialist experts in the work of the Special Committee on Security Authorities, as stated in the European Parliament's comparative analysis of security controls published in 2011, is the possibility of using their expertise, which in turn is needed to understand and evaluate the activities of the security authorities, there will certainly also have positive effects. If we look at Estonia's practice, we have followed the general principle that the members of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities have been appointed as members of the former Ministers of the Interior or persons who have gained expertise in this field. This has contributed to a better understanding of the issues related to security authorities. But if you look out of Estonia again, it can be said that in Germany, a committee of security authorities consisting of experts is set up next to the special committee of the Parliament. I will come back once again to the European Parliament's 2011 control report. Three quarters of the Member States of the European Union have also formed a special committee of only MEPs. But in drawing up the concept of constitutional law, we will definitely review the practice and alternatives of other countries and then decide what is the best model for Estonia. But, of course, what is the best possible model must be decided in Parliament's large Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U102	Thank you. We're going to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U103	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I have a practical proposal for you and I think it is quite a good one. I am sincerely convinced (as many of my colleagues here in the Riigikogu are convinced) that our phones and other means of communication are being checked, our speeches are being eavesdropped. I don't have time to explain to you why I've come to this conclusion, but I have a basis for it. Why don't we buy some tech in this Riigikogu so everyone can check if his cell phone and landline are eavesdropping? This technique doesn't cost much. Some officials may have to cancel their South American assignment, but we're gonna get some peace in this house and find out what the situation is, or we're just gonna end these hesitations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U104	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U105	Thank you. If you have such doubts or doubts, you are always entitled to contact the Special Committee on Security Oversight. Similarly, in order to listen to the phone secretly, it is worth recalling that a court's permission is needed. But I believe that as a member of your Riigikogu you can definitely check whether your phone has been eavesdropped and whether or not it is currently being wired. I'm sure you'll be given an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U106	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. I ask for a follow-up question on the fifth question concerning the committee. I am also of the opinion that the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, composed of only Members of Parliament, which employs two or three officials, is not effective and cannot do its job as the legislator has intended. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has carried out a short study where all European countries have been analysed on this issue. I am very sympathized with the Belgian security oversight system. There, Parliament has appointed a committee composed of most of the judges. How do you feel about the Belgian system?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U107	Thank you. There are indeed different schemes and systems for the supervision of security authorities in different countries, and not just for the supervision of security authorities. If we look at research institutions more widely, then we have different control mechanisms. We have so far chosen the path of having a special committee of Members. As I mentioned when experts are members of this committee, the question of legitimacy may arise as to whether and how many non-elected members have rights and responsibilities. On the other hand, as I said, we are currently analysing this issue more broadly and we have put it in our work plan. I believe that, in the course of discussions, we will certainly get to the point that, if necessary, changes must also be offered. I am not going to express sympathy or antipathy here for any country's model, because there are different models in countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U108	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The debate on this item has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U109	We're going to the next question. This is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Andres Anvelt, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Jaan Õunapuu, Kajar Lemberi, Helmen Küti, Jaak Allik, Rein Randver, Eiki Nestor, Kalev Kotkas, Rannar Vassilyev and Sven Mikser to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi on 7 December 2012 regarding the supervision of the procurement of Eesti Energia oil shale power plant. In the name of the heirs, there will be a speaker's chair, Rannar Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U110	Ladies and gentlemen, Eleven Social Democrats have submitted an inquiry to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi regarding the supervision of the procurement of oil shale power plants in Eesti Energia. Last December, the Riigikogu met Auditor General Mihkel Oviir, who responded to an inquiry concerning the procurement of Eesti Energia Narva Power Plants AS for the construction of oil shale power plant and the role of Juhan Parts in the general meeting. According to the Auditor General, this procurement was subject to a breach of the Public Procurement Act and Minister Juhan Parts was aware of it. It also appears from the press that the Minister actively intervened in the decision-making process, giving clear indications that the contract should be awarded. Due to the approach of the Auditor General, the Public Procurement Act was broken in two parts. Firstly, the only tender which was found to meet the conditions did not actually meet those conditions, since Alstom wanted different payment and penalty terms to be included in its tender documents. Secondly, negotiations were held with the tenderer on what should not have actually been negotiated. After these negotiations, a contract was awarded. The minutes of the meeting of the Board of Eesti Energia show that the Supervisory Board understood that the decisions taken in the tender procedure were contrary to the law and the contract was concluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board and with the knowledge of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications in charge of the general meeting. The Executive Board of Eesti Energia assured the Auditor General that the Minister was informed of all risks before the conclusion of the contract. Due to the fact that the Public Procurement Act lays down the obligation and competence of the Ministry of Finance to supervise public procurement as well as the out-of-court procedure for misdemeanours, eleven Social Democrats have submitted nine questions to the Minister for Finance, which we ask for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U111	Thank you. I beg the Secretary of Finance, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I would like to thank you for your questioning, and I would also like to thank those few of the eleven who have come to hear the answer. First of all, about the questions, I think it is impossible to answer the first, second, third, fifth, seventh and eighth questions one by one. They are so interconnected, and I believe that some of the answers to the following questions will be ruled out. They ask whether the Ministry of Finance is aware of whether it was familiar with whether it was establishing whether it initiated supervision, why it treats different subjects differently, and whether it is going to be in violation of the law. But I'll try to answer these questions together. First of all, the Ministry of Finance doesn't know everything about all the public procurements. We heard about the doubts raised by the press on the procurement of Narva Power Plants on 10 October 2012. The reason is simple: this call was not intended to be supervised and had not been the subject of a request, nor had any other relevant information been received. I would point out that the supervisory powers of the Ministry of Finance regarding the organisation of public procurement are laid down in the law. According to the law, the Ministry may make an injunction procedure before the award of the contract to be declared invalid. When information on this problem was received on 12 October (it was information from the press and a request for monitoring by the Lilleküla Society), the contract had been concluded almost two years ago. It was concluded on 14 January 2011. It wouldn't have been worth wasting a lot of resources, he could have confirmed the fact, but he couldn't change anything anymore. It is also impossible for us, from these sources, to determine whether or not the law was violated. But the legality and effectiveness of the use of public funds are controlled by the National Audit Office according to the law. If the National Audit Office has doubts that this is an offence, it must submit the material to the investigating body, which will inform the National Audit Office of the results of the examination of the materials. I can assure you that the Ministry of Finance does not treat any contracting authority biasedly and, of course, everyone is obliged to comply with the law. I will try to answer the fourth question separately: 'Has the acceptance of a later successful tender been carried out in accordance with the law? (Take note of the wording: "Was recognition of compliance carried out in accordance with the law? '! J. L.) Did the winner begin negotiating those procurement terms that were not negotiable and which should not have been changed by law? Were those conditions changed? ' The call for tenders was announced in the form of a negotiated procedure. The Kapo did not start criminal proceedings in this case, even though, on the basis of his application, he was investigating the matter. According to Kapo, the negotiation of the negotiated procedure is an integral part of the negotiated procedure with the eligible tenderers. According to Kapo, neither the statement by the Lilleküla Society nor the information provided in the TV programme reveals the breach of the public procurement law, whether and to whom it has caused significant material damage and where the damage is precisely caused. Where substantial errors are made in public procurement or a tenderer is favoured, other tenderers normally contest that procurement. This procurement has not been challenged. After all, this procedure has two major aims, in itself, to ensure that no one's interests have been violated or that the State is harmed. At present neither has been identified. Question 6: Has the Ministry of Finance previously initiated a monitoring procedure with regard to the acceptance of tenders which are not in conformity with the tender specifications, the negotiation of or modification of non-negotiable procurement terms? In what cases in the last five years? ' From what I understand about the question, I can say that it is. The Ministry of Finance was entrusted with the task of supervising public procurement from 1 July 2010. By decision of 26 October 2010, the Financial Control Department of the Ministry of Finance annulled the negotiated procurement procedure with publication of the Public Road Administration. At present, the Supreme Court is dealing with complaints by Nordecon AS and Ramboll Eesti AS for the annulment of the decision of the Ministry of Finance. The ninth question: "Do you think that the Auditor General is right that the tender was a breach of the law and that the offer could not have been declared successful and the contract was awarded to Alstom? " The answer is that without the monitoring procedure, I cannot answer that question. I also think I know that the Auditor General expressed nothing but a personal opinion when speaking from this remote control and he has not actually contributed energy to this matter. Was his personal assessment correct, I don't know. But according to my information, he supported and interpreted the minutes of the Eesti Energia meeting. Eesti Energia can always carry out public procurement in the form of a negotiated procedure with prior publication of a contract notice, as said by the Public Procurement Act and also by the Contracting Authorities' Directive in the field of networks, to which Eesti Energia is subject. It must be stated in particular that the Supreme Court addressed the Court of Justice to the question whether the conditions which were clearly stated in the procurement documents or which were not open are also negotiable. This is the question that the Auditor General has commented on personally and verbally here. It can be said that this is a slightly complex issue in law, but we are waiting for a ruling from the European Court of Justice to be able to say something about it. I also mention that this question of the Supreme Court was not based on this case but on one other. I would like to emphasise that the Defence Police failed to open criminal proceedings on the basis of an application from the NGO Lilleküla Society and considers that it is not possible to establish, on the basis of the application submitted or any other material, that the behaviour of an official has revealed the characteristics of the crime. In the opinion of the Defence Police, it is not possible to detect a breach of public procurement requirements or serious material damage. The Defence Police also did not propose the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure. So the bodies that were able to deal with this issue have not been found to be illegal here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U113	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U114	Thank you. The Auditor General's report before us revealed that the minutes of the meeting of the Estonian Energy Council showed that the Council understood that the decisions taken in the tender procedure were inconsistent with the law. The Management Board of Eesti Energia assured the National Audit Office that the Minister was informed of all risks before the conclusion of the contract. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications is your colleague in the government. You said that the Ministry of Finance had not reached information that there might be a suspicion of a breach of law in this procurement procedure. Did the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications share with you the information that the Board of Eesti Energia had allegedly shared with him?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U115	Thank you. The government didn't discuss it. We are not a dialogue holder with the Minister for Economic Affairs; we are discussing these issues at a government meeting where such an issue was not raised. The reason is simple: public administration describes risks all the time, every day. These risks are both economic and legal. Laws can be interpreted both ways. That such a threat and the possibility of interpretation were indeed spoken at the meeting, but there was no mention (I have looked at this protocol and asked for comments) that it would have been the knowledge that the law was being violated. No one has confirmed that the law was violated either. No one, I say it again, has confirmed it. What else can I say? In my opinion, the Auditor General essentially supported the opinion of a member of the Council (I have read his verbatim report) who actually had in mind the risk of a breach of the law which he considered to be of little importance compared to the possible damage if the agreement was not concluded. But this is the sovereign position of a member of the Council; there has been no finding of a breach of law here, but only a consideration. The damage was not caused, the damage was likely not caused by the conclusion of this agreement and no rights were violated.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U116	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U117	I'm gonna go check it out right now. I understand that if the Auditor General is on this board, he may have a personal position, but he still represents the institution as such. You replied today that there was no way to answer the question of whether the Auditor General was right, because there was still no monitoring procedure. It turned out that this procedure had not been considered so far. But if you think that maybe the Auditor General is right, isn't there a plan to initiate some sort of monitoring procedure? Or do you and the Ministry of Finance think that the procurement is rather closed and the story is over?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U118	Thank you. I repeat, the Auditor General has expressed his personal position in this Chamber. Whoever he was representing at that moment, he didn't say that. He would have had the opportunity to initiate control of this 'infringement'. He is also entitled to auditing Eesti Energia, but he has not done so. This was verified on the basis of an application by the kapo, which also did not detect a breach of the law. That's my answer. I don't know why I should be in a situation where the role of the Ministry of Finance was a potential opportunity to intervene ended in January 2011, something else to think, just because Mihkel Oviir thought something as a citizen.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U119	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U120	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, What is your personal opinion on why an innumerable number of troubles have hit a particular ministry? We'll take the port container terminal tracks, road procurement, EAS troubles, power plants, Estonian Air. It seems to me that the Lord's sun will go down before this list comes to an end. Why does one ministry have such failures from morning to night?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U121	Thank you. This isn't the end of the line. There's a build-up of these problems. There is one particular reason for this: there are a lot of economic interests and a lot of different areas, a lot of business risks, etc. That's the dominant reason. The Ministers of Economic Affairs, figuratively speaking, live in a minefield. There can always be some kind of trouble and there is a great art to manage them all. I think all we have to do here for the ministers of the economy is want strength and competence, not be too angry with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U122	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U123	Mr. Minister! Would you be so kind as to explain a little bit about the expression that Mr. Oviir appeared as a citizen on this board? In my opinion, only certain people can come to this Riigikogu speech chair. No mere citizen will come here to express his opinion, that can be done in the people's assembly. I thought it was an exaggeration when you said that Oviir, from the Riigikogu's remote control, would reveal the thoughts of the citizen.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U124	Thank you. He didn't use the word 'citizen', he said he thought so personally. But he hasn't dealt with it in depth. If he thought that this issue was serious, he would have to deal with it seriously as an official. I do not know that he would have dealt with this seriously, but he made a very serious comment from the Riigikogu's board as a citizen, i.e. as a person, or as a person, or as the verbatim was written in black white, I looked it up. It's really hard for me to tell a person who's so brilliant when he's acting like a human being and when he's being an official. But there have been other cases with him.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U125	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U126	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As we know, the Estonian Energy Council at one point agreed not to enter into an agreement with Alstom, considering it economically uneconomical. But then the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Parts, sent an order to the Council that this agreement should be concluded as a matter of urgency. If you were the Minister for the Economy, would you have sent such an order to the Council or would you not have sent it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U127	Thank you. I do not know exactly when and under what circumstances he sent this letter. This is a general meeting which has the right to give guidance to board members. I don't know how to put myself in this situation with confidence. On behalf of the government, I can say that we had the will to do this to Estonia, as it seemed, an important building for energy security, at least one block of it. There was one offerer. The terms of the offer did not promise to improve the next time. The market is well complex and consolidated in this area. So I'm not gonna rule out that I didn't do the same thing. I certainly can't rule that out.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U128	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The debate on this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U129	Let's go to the next subject. Members of the Riigikogu Kalev Kallo, Olga Sõtnik, Tarmo Tamm, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velman, Aivar Riisalu, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toom, Viktor Vassilyev and Aadu Must submitted an inquiry to the Estonian Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts on 14 November 2012 concerning the implementation of the "Estonian Ice Breaking Development Plan 2006-2013." On behalf of the heirs, please introduce the request for a speech by Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U130	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, In processing the draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act in the Riigikogu, the lighthouse and navigation fees taken separately were replaced by a single fee, i.e. a waterway fee. This bill provided for an increase of up to six times in fees for some groups of ships. The need to ensure rapid icebreaking capacity was identified as the main reason for an unexpected, very short notice and unreasonablely high remuneration increase. During the proceedings in the Riigikogu, nearly 20 companies operating in the logistics cluster and their umbrella organisations approached the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu as well as the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. They expressed their protest and their misunderstanding about the abnormal behaviour towards the economic environment and recalled that in 2003 very important changes to national shipping charges were prepared, which entered into force on 1 January 2004. Instead of the icebreaking fee, a navigation fee was introduced and, like this time, the fee for all groups of vessels was increased, in some cases up to 60%. It requested an increase of 50 million kroons, which is 3.2 million euros in today's currency. The main reason was better organisation of winter navigation. Doesn't it ring a bell? It seems that the plans initially were serious because they prepared and approved the 'Estonia's icebreaking development plan 2006 to 2013', which, as we know, provided for the acquisition of up to three icebreakers. In contrast to the above-mentioned draft of last year, 2012, the development and validation of the development plan was preceded by a very thorough analysis at that time. At that time, it seems that work and decision-making were treated more responsibly. The introduction to Chapter 3.5.2 "Financing" of the Development Plan states: "The provision of effective icebreaking services does not necessarily increase state spending, but at the same time ensures an increase in the share of revenue through fees. The revenue received by the State in the form of dividends from state-owned companies alone constitutes, in comparison, a sufficient financial base for the acquisition of icebreakers. ' I think it's very golden words. Isn't it? Especially considering that during this period the Port of Tallinn has withdrawn the cost of at least two icebreakers from AS. Consequently, we have a number of questions to answer. But I'm not going to read the questions here. The Minister will read the questions and give the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U131	Thank you. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U132	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The first question: 'Why, as Minister, did you not consider the implementation of this development plan to be a priority? ' On the contrary, fulfilling the objectives described in the icebreaking concept, including the icebreaking concept, has been one of the major tasks of the Ministry of Economic Affairs in the field of transport, and all these years have been under the great attention of the Estonian maritime and transit sectors. I dare say that this has been actively worked on and that there are now some significant results. It is important to stress that, although the acquisition of its own ships has been delayed longer than foreseen by the development plan, icebreaking capacity has been guaranteed in all winters thanks to chartered multipurpose icebreakers and tugboats. The icebreaking development plan approved by the government in March 2006 until 2013 envisaged the acquisition of at least two icebreakers in the Gulf of Finland. The need for a third vessel shall be analysed after completion of two vessels, taking into account real needs and economic opportunities. This principle has also been followed. The biggest problem with the icebreaking agenda is that it left the issue of unsolved funding. Given the size of such investments, it has to be said that a situation in which the development plan and concept determine large investments but do not contain real decisions to organise funding is rather impractical. Now we can say that thanks to the law on the amendment of the Maritime Safety Act adopted by the Riigikogu, which you and many other people in this Chamber have criticised a lot and which, after discussing with market participants, certainly became better, is the multipurpose icebreaker Botnica registered in the Estonian ship register. The owner of the port of Tallinn has a contractual obligation to break the ice in the Gulf of Finland for 10 years. The company has a rather realistic plan to improve the economic return on this investment at other times. There is an overview of market demand for this type of multipurpose icebreaker services in our neighbouring waters, there are also real contacts. So we can say that thanks to the operation of the government, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Maritime Administration and the Port of Tallinn, an important step has been taken towards the realisation of the icebreaking development plan, which means that one of the two icebreakers needed in the Gulf of Finland has been acquired. Since it will not be possible to build an icebreaker from the state budget in the coming years, we have changed the original plan to finance the construction of the ship. To date, we have planned to finance the construction of another icebreaker needed in the Gulf of Finland from the European Union's budget period. We see the main source of funding not so much as the European Union's resources for the Estonian state, but, given the functionality of this icebreaker, it is compatible with the Connecting Europe Facility, in the event that such a facility emerges during the negotiations on the European financing framework that will continue in February. The second question: 'Didn't you think the development plan was sufficiently well and thoroughly prepared? " When I answered the first question, I explained it in some ways. I think that this development plan was well prepared and took into account the opportunities that had existed at the time. The concept described is largely relevant today. At the same time, there have been significant changes in the economy and business, as well as technological developments, over a period of seven years. The biggest problem with the icebreaking development plan and concept was that a binding financing decision was essentially not taken. The development plan at the time indicated that the icebreaker could acquire it by financing it from the state budget and by borrowing it. It was even foreseen that the funds could be taken from the Stabilisation Fund and could also be used by the European Union. We all realise that our country's development is at such a level that decisions to finance such investments must be actually prepared, rather than simply providing opportunities, referring to different sources of money. Each of these sources requires a budgetary strategy, the European Union's financial resources require programme agreements, not to mention priority in relation to other similar investments, in this case transport. In terms of how many icebreakers we need in the Gulf of Finland and the Väinameri Sea, the development plan is more or less adequate today. But since we have been indirectly controlled by the state by one icebreaker and there are long-term contracts, we should now focus on the other icebreaker. There's no burning problem right now. The peculiarities of the last 15 years have been that the acquisition of ice-breaking capacity has always been a step forward, as the market offers relatively few such capabilities and prices are high. We have always sought solutions, but they have not been certain even when the ice period has already begun. Now we have reached a slightly better position, but given the age of the icebreaker Tarmo, this topic certainly cannot get off the agenda. Another new icebreaker in the Gulf of Finland is also necessary. Thirdly, you ask me if I have better solutions. The problem of icebreaking has now been solved thanks to the acquisition of the icebreaker Botnica. It is important to stress that the icebreaking service is very expensive. Inflation, fuel price increases and the situation in the icebreaking market have increased the price of icebreaking services over the years. For example, while in 2004 the icebreaker's freight price was EUR 25000 per day without fuel costs, in 2011 it was EUR 40000. For Botnica, the freight price is EUR 37500 per day. These prices do not include the amounts consumed as fuel. Thus, the amounts collected on the basis of the navigation fee and the lighthouse charge rates established in 2005 were not of the same magnitude as the money spent on year-round navigation safety. This includes financing for icebreaking. This led to the need to adjust the Waterway Charges Scheme. Question 4: "Do you intend to continue to carry out the tasks set out in the development plan in the long term and extend the validity of the development plan or repeal the development plan and develop a new document by means of new, abruptly increased waterway charges? ' We are currently preparing a transport development plan until 2020. In this process, we certainly want to make clear the ability to break the ice in Estonian waters. In addition, we have a maritime policy document, which has been approved at government level and determines the principles of icebreaking and the needs for the development of icebreaking capacity until 2020. The fifth question: 'What is the guarantee that higher waterway charges will be charged, but in 5 to 6 years' time, the same problem will have to be solved again, because nothing has been done? ' As I was trying to describe above, today we can say that something has been done. However, it is probably important to consider that, if necessary, some longer-term agreements with the maritime sector should also be found as to how the rates of waterway charges could be revised in the future. We do not see any need to touch them in the coming years, given the decisions made by the Riigikogu, but life is likely to change and there is a need for some longer common understanding of how waterway charges could depend on inflation or the rise in other costs. As far as the provision of services in Estonian waters is concerned, there is a risk of price jumping again at some point. This, of course, should be avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U133	Thank you. Kalev Kallo, please, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U134	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. At the beginning of your reply, you pointed out, as one important reason, that no clear financing plan had been developed, although the development plan refers to the fact that, if financed from the state budget, there could certainly be dividends from the port that have been withdrawn as well. Who, then, had to take the initiative in this plan? Since the second year of the development plan, you have been the Minister for the Economy, who should have gone to the government with this initiative and tried to make a financing plan in 2007 or 2008. It would have been possible to use this scheme for three or four years now. It seems to me that the fact that this financing plan has not been put in place is, to some extent, a stone for you as a minister's cabbage garden. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U135	I don't really want to agree with that. A separate financing plan should be included in its core development plan. What is the point of a development plan if there is no real financing solution? When people say that it is financed from the state budget, from the European Union, etc., it is as good an answer as when I answer at home to a child who asks, "Where do you get the money, Daddy? 'that I'll take it from the bank. If the 2006 decision was to be financed from the state budget, this investment in the construction of a new icebreaker should have been foreseen in the national budget strategy, which is known to be drawn up for at least four years. No such investment is foreseen there. When we took out 2007-2013. The so-called transport-oriented part of the European Union's resources for 2008 did not provide for the possibility of financing the construction of a new icebreaker in the order of 1.1 to 1.5 billion kroons. That was the state of finance. We did, of course, have a maritime policy, talked to representatives of the sector, showed links. So far, we've figured out a way to get an icebreaker. I think that another new icebreaker could be partly financed by European Union funds. Consequently, the new financing period for Europe, which I hope will be agreed in the near future, must be monitored and further monitored to ensure that decisions within Estonia take account of the construction of this icebreaker. That's the answer. I wouldn't take that stone to my real cabbage garden. I think there should have been some sort of irreversible financing solution in 2006. Talk about taking money out of the state budget doesn't cost anything, to be honest. We know this because we have done too much to solve the various problems of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U136	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U137	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Just before you, Jürgen Ligi performed here. I asked him as a member of the government office, which is his opinion, why one ministry has been hit by different avalanche problems, such as problems around the EAS, problems with power plants, problems with Estonian Air, etc. In his reply, he said that there would be more in view of these problems. As Minister of Economic Affairs, can you tell me what he meant? Is there gonna be any more trouble that we don't know yet, but you already know as a minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U138	Thank you. I think that because of your inner attitude, you are probably also defining bullshit that you have to live and work here and worry about your well-being and your loved ones and your family. However, I recommend a more positive view of life. Problems and concerns, as well as changes in the situation, also apply to each life. These problems need to be addressed where necessary. I wouldn't call everything that's happening now in the economy and related sectors just trouble. It creates such a false impression.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U139	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U140	Thank you. Good minister! I know that there has already been a lot of spending on making this new icebreaker, because there has been a project and everything that goes with it. But do you dare say today when this new icebreaker might be around? The second part of the question is as follows. What if it fails to finance it from European money? Can we still get at least one of these ships to break our ice?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U141	Thank you. We have to look at the real things. The 2006 concept provided that it could be financed from the state budget. Perhaps this would have been possible if the economy had increased by 10% or 12%. We must bear in mind that, when the government approved this concept in 2006, it was imagined that the economy would grow and that such investments could be financed directly from the budget. I do not think that there is much point in putting the hope that we will be able to finance it from the state budget in the usual way, either under other costs or as an investment. It makes sense that we have to co-finance this investment anyway, but the European Union's resources could be 75% or 85% depending on the proposed agreements. To speculate now on this issue, what if it is not possible is unlikely to be relevant. We better try to reach such decisions both in Brussels and here in Estonia, so that this is possible. If this proves possible, we will probably be able to proceed with this ongoing design project. It can be assumed that the second icebreaker could be completed in 2018 or 2019 at the earliest. It takes a long time to build itself. If it is not possible to obtain European funds in the next period, then we need to come back to this issue and see what alternative funding options are. I wouldn't say any more about that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U142	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U143	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! You said that if the economy had grown by 10% every year, you could have built more icebreakers and whatever. Why, then, did the economy not grow, did the government fail, or was it responsible? In the meantime, we were told for 50 years that international imperialism was to blame. But who's to blame now that our economy doesn't want to grow the way we need it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U144	I believe that international imperialism is to blame, but unlike the imperialism you are talking about, it has certainly been caused by the Estonian Government.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U145	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U146	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I'm asking you very sincerely. We all know that answering questions is not always the most pleasant, because they deal with various bottlenecks. Lately, as I understand it, who I have been working practically for a few days, your workload as Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications has become beyond comprehension. It is clear that under such circumstances a person can no longer properly assess all matters of his administration from time to time. Do you not think that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications should be split into two, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Communication to create a normal working environment for ministers as well? What you're supposed to do now is unreasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U147	I don't know where you're gonna find my workload unreasonable. You should know, by saying this, how much this workload is. I don't think you have an idea of the workload of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. I do not think that the creation of new ministries will solve any problem facing Estonia. They were once put together, and I think it would make sense that they were together. Our example is being studied by countries that often have four or five ministers in these areas, also in our neighbouring regions. But we are a small country, with 1.3 million inhabitants here. I believe it makes sense if there are still a limited number of ministries.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U148	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The debate on the eighth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U149	The ninth inquiry was submitted by Riigikogu members Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Must, Tarmo Tamm, Eldar Efendiev, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Vladimir Velman, Marika Tuus-Laul, Ester Tuiksoo and Yana Toom on 14 November 2012 to the Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas on the financing of the health system. I ask Viktor Vassilyev to speak on behalf of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U150	Madam President! So, good people in the hall! I will present an inquiry into the financing of the health care system. In particular, a working group was set up on the initiative of the Minister of Social Affairs (now at the initiative of the previous Minister of Social Affairs) as a result of the strike by doctors and health professionals, who began to draw up a cooperation agreement to ensure the sustainability of the health system. There are several parties or participants (there are nearly 20) who attend meetings and present their proposals. There's a very busy exchange of ideas in the mail and the network. This whole thing is behind the fact that the association of doctors and the professional association of health professionals behind it are not willing to sign this cooperation agreement for the time being. So I don't know what cooperation and agreement we're talking about here at all, but there's gonna be some sort of compromise, and I'm sure the signatures will get down there. We are talking about the fact that when health workers started negotiations (the hospital union, i.e. health workers wanted to negotiate with the Minister of Social Affairs, but had to talk to the Hospital Association), their demand was that, under no circumstances, patients' own participation would increase. As we feared at the time, we now see that the visit fee and the bed-day fee have risen. The former Minister Hanno Pevkur (fortunately the former Minister was) explained here that, in fact, ownership is a very complex phenomenon, it is not at all large and he can pay for medical care. However, considering our people's standard of living, wages and pensions, and remembering that the sickest are still those who are either retired or earn less, this is quite a burden for them. You don't have to talk about the cost of dental care. I think there's been so much talk about it, but it doesn't work. An Estonian person is recognized everywhere in the world. As soon as he opens his mouth, the non-professional says that there are no teeth, but the professional dentist looks into the mouth of the Estonian and asks if it has patched its own teeth. I'm afraid that's the case. There is a chronic lack of money in health care, with all the money there is, it's a bunch of ways. There is a health fund reserve that was consolidated into the Treasury. There it is now. Minister Ligi promised you wouldn't eat it. It hasn't been eaten, it's just spread around the budget like butter on bread. It's not lost either. But there it is, you can't use it, even though it's all of our money that we've paid to be provided with health care. The sickness fund has created another reserve. This is the undistributed result, which is actually the profit of a non-profit organisation. This can only happen if we are not provided health care for our tax money and this money is kept. There's gotta be some kind of reserve, it's kind of understandable. But this is the situation that we, members of the Central Party, had four questions for former Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, which, fortunately, is now answered by the current Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U151	Thank you. I'm asking for Secretary of State for Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U152	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. Question 1: 'How can a legal person governed by public law, who is not seeking profit, like the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, generate profits? ' The establishment of the reserves of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund is regulated by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act. The profit of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund is not a profit in the classical sense, but a result of the financial year, which accumulates the undistributed result of the Health Insurance Fund and, together with reserves, constitutes the net assets of the Health Insurance Fund. The profits of the Health Insurance Fund for the financial year shall arise if the social tax income and other income for sickness insurance are higher than the planned costs. However, I recall that both 2012 and this year the budget of the Health Insurance Fund was designed to spend more than it would receive. Perhaps the sickness fund is not in profit, but on the contrary, we are taking part in the early-earned coming. The estimated losses for 2012 were EUR 10,1 million and EUR 9,2 million for 2013. In fact, it is not true what might have been left of this question, that the sickness fund operates very profitablely, and that part of the money that comes from the social security contribution part of the social tax goes somewhere in mysterious reserves. I am, by the way, completely in agreement with Dr Vasiliev that it really is understandable why reserves are necessary. But this year we operate and last year we operated with a small deficit. At the same time, I would point out that the balance of the Health Insurance Fund's budget is very closely linked to the balance between the state budget and the public sector as a whole. In 2009 there was a big minus, in 2010 there was a smaller minus, in 2011 there was a small plus, in 2012-2013 we are in a small minus. So this movement is perfectly correlated and logical. Question 2: "Is the creation of undistributed results or profits planned and planned for what purpose? ' I refer once again to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act. In accordance with this and also with the provisions of the Health Insurance Act, the Health Insurance Fund must organise health insurance by ensuring the efficient and rational use of sickness insurance funds in order to ensure the sustainability of health insurance. The unallocated result is a source of cost coverage that helps to ensure the stability of the health care system, despite changes in the economy and the labour market and the resulting changes in social tax revenue (in the present case the reduction). In order to ensure the stability of healthcare funding, the Health Insurance Fund, together with the budget for the financial year, shall also draw up an estimate of the sources of expenditure and revenue covered by the Health Insurance Fund for four years. Depending on the economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance and the part of the health insurance of the social tax received, the profits distributed by the Health Insurance Fund can either be introduced or increased to the extent permitted by § 361 of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act. Therefore, the budget of the health insurance fund must also take into account the change in unallocated results. Profits retained by the Health Insurance Fund in previous periods shall be allowed to be used in the financial year up to a maximum of 30%, but not exceeding 7% of the cost of health care provided for in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund in the previous calendar year. (As a comment, we are now more limited by this 7% of the cost of health care provided for in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund in the previous calendar year.) The Board, on a proposal from the Executive Board, shall decide on the introduction of the retained earnings of the Health Insurance Fund. Question 3: "What is the difference between the non-distributed results and the reserve of the Health Insurance Fund? ' The difference lies in the purpose and take-up of reserves and results. According to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the Health Insurance Fund must form reserve capital and risk reserve. The reserve capital shall be set up to reduce the risks to the health insurance system arising from macroeconomic changes and shall amount to 6% of the budget volume. Reserve capital may only be mobilised exceptionally, on a proposal from the Minister of Social Affairs, by the Government of the Republic. The risk reserve is a reserve made up of the Health Insurance Fund's budget to reduce the risks arising from the commitments made to the health insurance system and amounts to 2% of the Health Insurance Fund's budget. The risk reserve may be introduced by a decision of the Health Insurance Fund Council. The net result, on the other hand, is the accumulated result of the health insurance fund's economic activity, which aims to ensure the sustainability of the health insurance system. For non-financial people, this may seem complicated, but very simple and concisely, it is listed on the last page of the explanatory statement on the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. I believe that all those who have a more detailed interest in this subject will get a pretty good picture from there. The budget statement is entirely available on the website of the Health Insurance Fund. This budget has been adopted freshly. For a more detailed picture, I also recommend that you visit the website of the Health Insurance Fund for a more detailed overview of the revenue and expenditure of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. There are also broader financial indicators, including the total volume of reserves. So you can also look at the dynamics of reserves, how it's changed in time. I believe that when you look at these two documents, every interested person gets a pretty good overview of the financial situation of the health insurance fund and how the health insurance fund is managed. Question 4: "What are the tasks of the Health Insurance Fund's reserve with the Treasury? ' The State Treasury manages the funds of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund on the basis of a savings agreement with the State on a bank account forming part of a group account of the state. The deposit agreement must allow the health insurance fund to make payments at any time, of course under the conditions laid down by law. The funds are invested by the Ministry of Finance, together with state money, in accordance with the principles of cash flow and financial risk management established by the Government of the Republic's decree, in accordance with § 32 (4) of the State Budget Act. The Ministry of Finance pays the Health Insurance Fund interest equal to the profit of the Treasury's reserve on the balance of treasury assets held in a bank account forming part of a national group account. For the Health Insurance Fund, the holding of the reserve does not differ from holding the reserve in the Treasury's group account. The use of the Health Insurance Fund's reserves is regulated, as has been said, by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, where you will find provisions concerning reserve capital (§ 38) and risk reserve (§ 391), the content of which I have already sent to answer the previous question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U153	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U154	Thank you. It was such a dissipation of the text, so we can read these things ourselves. But I ask you creatively. The world view of the previous minister was as we remember that more healthcare needs to be paid out of the patient's pocket, increased ownership, and many sums have to be cut. What's your position? Do you want to continue in this direction? Do you foresee that perhaps one day, however, dental care should also start to compensate people of working age to some extent, which is not currently being done? And what about the waiting lists? We know they're much longer than they're officially meant to be. No one's ever been able to say it right. What are your views on the world? What's going to happen to the district hospitals?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U155	Thank you for this very comprehensive and comprehensive question. I say, just in case, for the sake of the verbatim report, that when I answered, I looked to the questioners most of the time, not to the paper, precisely to better explain these rather complex principles of allocation of reserves and exactly where you will find detailed and concise answers to your questions. Now the answer to the question is, what is my world view of whether we need to find more money for the Estonian health care system? I'm sure he will. There is no doubt that the most sustainable additional source of money is economic growth, but health is an area which, in many ways, requires additional money due to demographic developments, but also to the ongoing development within the health system. It's perfectly clear. Where is it best to find these resources? I think this is the most difficult task for every minister, government and parliament. As we all know together, there are and there is more areas that would need extra money in Estonia. Nevertheless, I must be committed to the social sphere, including certainly the health sector. I am very pleased to say that the 2013 budget of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, which was recently approved at the end of last week, is bigger than ever. This budget is, in this sense, sustainablely larger than ever before, that the receipts are also greater than before. Last year, we were around one million kroons behind the 2008 level in terms of the cost of the health insurance fund, and now we are a whole 7% larger. What does that mean for people? It means a lot of things. This, of course, also means a change in the organisation of the salaries of health care workers, which is the subject of a number of inquiries here today, and, to put it simpler, an increase in wages. This, too, is largely financed by the sickness fund. But there will also be very important changes for the patient. The most important change in primary care could be to fund the creation of a second family nurse's job with family doctors. Several deadlines are shortening, which is an important signal. There are a lot of lines where we can allocate additional resources. All of this actually contributes to the needs and motivation of the sector and will certainly make the service more accessible to the patient, in certain cases also of higher quality. There is, of course, a need to allocate extra money, but we must work hard to get that money to where it is most needed. To highlight some areas, of course and logically, there is a great deal of extra money for care care, for example, but there is, of course, more. I wouldn't want to hurt anyone without mentioning anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U156	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U157	Thank you. Dear Minister, However, as we know, this unallocated result could have been worth nearly EUR 40 million, but 10 million were taken. You, as chairman of the former Finance Commission, have not yet taken on the role of Minister of Social Affairs very well. You didn't say much about the patient as the medical protagonist. We are not only talking about raising wages in this Chamber today, but also that the queues for a specialist, especially the queues for an ophthalmologist and an ear-nose-throat doctor, are illegally long. How are these issues to be addressed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U158	Thank you, good questioner! I understand that this question was prepared earlier. In my reply, this is what I was talking about, that we reduced the number of queues in the second half of last week by the decision of the Health Insurance Fund. I was also specifically talking about a patient. After all, the previously prepared questions could be clarified on the ground. But let's talk about this maximum reserve take-up. Indeed, one thing is the legal limit. I believe that, as a member of the long-term Social Committee, you well understand that this limit has historically emerged in the law, primarily because we would have been able to go to a deficit in the years of crisis if the country's economic situation was to deteriorate and the social tax receipts were to be significantly reduced. We are talking now about a rather tangible increase in the budget, 7% of the Health Insurance Fund's budget. If you say that this increase could be much faster, the budget could go negative, then there is a serious question as to how many years you predict the future of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. Should we close the doors in five years? If we were to take EUR 40 million per year, as stipulated in the law, we would have enough money for about five years. In a context of economic growth, in a situation where the budget of the Health Insurance Fund is growing by 7%, so that we can extensively raise the salaries of health care workers, improve the situation of patients and ensure that another family nurse has a family doctor, I certainly do not consider it appropriate, as a minister, to make use of all the reserves that have been set aside in the past in a fairly short time and to leave the next governments with a budget and an empty reserve. I certainly do not consider this to be a responsible approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U159	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U160	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Estonia's population is declining, but it is also ageing. We don't need less doctors and medical staff at all, quite the opposite. At the same time, it has been clear in recent years how both doctors and nurses (in particular nurses can be said) are leaving Estonia on a massive basis. There is no way to stop this process with money. One experiment of this kind over the past year resulted in only one young doctor who accepted the conditions offered to him. In addition to financing or wage-related measures, do you see how to stop doctors and nurses leaving Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U161	Thank you. That's a good question. It is certainly not the only thing that motivates people, but it is undoubtedly important. In a sustainable and long-term perspective, we can again talk about wage increases and wage levels that would be satisfactory in Estonian health care, especially if we have economic growth. They're directly related. Even this year, wages in Estonian health care are rising on average faster than in society as a whole. But it is clear that we need, above all, economic growth and the growth of the wealth of society as a whole in order to achieve sustainable growth. In addition to pay, working conditions, including both domestic and, to put it simple, real estate, and, of course, the possibilities of self-realization, are certainly important in what kind of equipment can be dealt with in which collective as well as in complex treatment cases. These are areas where we must also make a strong effort. Speaking of the equipment that is being used for work, as well as the collective where this work is being done, it can be said that the situation is quite good. I believe you agree with me. However, investment is still needed and investment is needed both from the funds planned by the hospitals themselves and from those that can be obtained with European support. It is also clear that it is necessary to make up for decades of under-financing or other types of investment. Unfortunately, as in all other areas, this moderation is not happening overnight. But if you go to hospitals all over Estonia, I am not only talking about Tallinn or larger centres, you can see that even in smaller places there is a great deal of investment in the environment in which the work is done, and the equipment and facilities will motivate doctors, nurses, care workers and all other health professionals.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U162	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U163	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. My question comes from the question of my colleague, Mr Pikhof. This question is not prepared. I would also like to say that as a person who knows social and health matters, Heljo Pikhof can certainly come up with issues on the ground. But the question is whether the Ministry has an overview of the rise in visit and bed day fees in hospitals all over Estonia. If it is not today, would it be possible to get this overview later? The second question is whether you have an overview of the order of treatment. How long are these longest queues? If we don't have this review today, then maybe we can get it later.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U164	Thank you. Of course, all the materials you want will be e-mailed to you. The visit fee is the subject of the next question. But preconceivedly, before the written material is sent, I can say so much that it is not yet clear. Hospitals have the possibility to decide independently whether and in which specialties the visit fee will be changed. The Riigikogu as legislator has established a maximum limit. You can't get past that. I think it is only possible to send you an exhaustive table of whether, and where, the maximum limit increases will occur, in a few months' time, when the hospitals have made these decisions. Today we already know a few places where changes are made, and we also know some places where no changes have been made. But we will agree with you whether you want an overview now or if you want an overview to be exhaustive. Well, according to that, the Ministry will definitely act.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U165	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U166	Thank you. Good minister! Hospital buildings are also part of the health care system. To be honest, there has been quite a lot of work done in recent years, but I understand that it has been difficult for you as a minister in this short time to get into all the problems associated with the Ministry of Social Affairs. But I still want to ask you whether you or your team already have an overview of where the basic funds will go in the next seven years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U167	Thank you. If you are interested in the use of euro money, the correct answer is that we do not yet have an agreement at European Union level, how big the budget will be and where exactly the money will be directed. Of course, we also have our own preferences and ideas in the social field in preparation, but all the decisions that concern the internal distribution of money, whether in the social field or in any other field, can still be made when the Heads of Government have agreed on the budget plan. I hope this will happen in the coming months. Then we can agree on Estonia's priorities and more precise distribution of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U168	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U169	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! As regards the capacity of the Health Insurance Fund and how things go on, I recall that economic analyses were carried out at the Health Insurance Fund, according to which the unallocated result would continue until 2001, if I was not mistaken, and then a complete collapse would occur. I don't think Danilov took that analysis with him when he left, it's supposed to be there. An increase in the 7% budget means that 4% will eat up inflation, another 4% will eat up excise and energy prices, and 1% will in any case be missing. If the family doctor gets another sister, it doesn't bring more money. Your predecessor at least somehow tried to find something and listened to what he was told, but of course he didn't allow anything to be done. Are you sure you can handle Finance Minister Ligi?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U170	Thank you. Good question. I'm sure we can handle ourselves very well. However, as regards the financial situation of the sickness fund, you did not refer to the year in which the assessment was made that the reserves would continue until 2001. But I think it might have been completely true in that time. In particular, between 2004 and 2008 alone, the sickness fund's reserves increased more than 2.6 times. This is the period when the vast majority of the reserves we are talking about today were actually built up. In view of the current size of the health insurance fund's reserves, it is true that if we adopt them each year to the maximum extent permitted by law, they will continue for five years, but in the sixth year we will still be in a situation where the budget is negative and no more money is taken from the reserve. That has to be taken into account. This is certainly not the situation, I believe, as a member of your Health Insurance Board. As for how much extra money comes in to provide one or the other health care service, this is not the way you know very well, as a member of the Health Insurance Fund Board, that it is not the case that medical treatment and health services are taken and multiplied by inflation. For health services, in some cases inflation-related changes are also negative. For example, the cost of supplies related to orthopaedic surgery has been reduced most recently and a larger number of treatment cases can be dealt with within the same budget. Such examples can certainly be found elsewhere. The same explanatory memorandum to the Health Insurance Fund's budget, to which I have referred once and which is publicly available on the website of the Health Insurance Fund, contains very precise, line-by-line information on which services are available and how much is improved. I suggest you take a look at it from there. In fact, this will improve the 7% increase in the budget this year, compared to last year, in a very large number of areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U171	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Viktor Vassilyev, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U172	Madam President! Healthcare is such a wide area that you can talk about it for a very long time, but I only say the most painful thing I have on my soul. First of all, to clarify to the Minister, this study, which I was talking about, was carried out a little less than a year ago. Mr Danilov reported the results and the Minister of Finance was not at all pleased with it. But more than that, the Minister of Finance felt that it was a strong desire to drag both the sickness fund and the unemployment fund's reserve into the treasury, and Hannes Danilov was resolutely opposed to it. Then, of course, Danilov was replaced, but it wasn't easy either, and there was a circus at the health fund for quite a while. To this end, even part of the Council had to be replaced, but in the end, this was done. The Health Insurance Fund's reserve, which is currently in the Treasury, is, as the Minister said, designed to smooth out unforeseen economic effects. In my opinion, the medical strike and the resulting increase in patients' ownership are a completely effective economic factor. You could have taken something out of the reserve, not taken from the unemployed, not had a quarrel with hospitals' associations with doctors, doctors' patients, patients with the unemployed, and didn't cause any eternal confusion, and in society as a whole, a lot of frustration. I have always respected Hanno Pevkur, but this is how it happened that having created this eternal mess, he himself, you see, ran away. I understand it wasn't up to him, but they pulled him out of that porridge and planted him somewhere else. Let's see what he can do in there. But now I come to the fact that health care needs more money. There's plenty of sources where we can get the money. First of all, excise duties on alcohol and tobacco, from which money could be directed towards health care. The depreciation of the buildings should be covered by the state budget, not by the sickness fund's money. The places where the money is received have been pointed out in public in this hall. Everyone who has wanted to have understood this, but the Minister of Finance does not allow it, because it is important to him that his lovely, dear, small budget, which must be shown in Brussels, is round, pink and cute, and for God's sake, there should be no deficit there. The current Minister for Social Affairs said very nicely that the financing of health care must be guaranteed by economic growth. At the same time, we talked to the Minister of Economic Affairs half an hour ago and agreed that Estonia's economic growth depends on how the Government of the Republic copes with international imperialism, which he had great doubts about. I didn't read out of his statement that there would be any economic growth in the near future, which would also improve the situation of the health insurance fund. But I think the current Minister of Social Affairs is a very capable person. We've dealt with him many times, and we've done all sorts of great things. Of course, pulling the Health Insurance Fund out of this mess and improving his economic situation is much harder than fishing for a bench out of the pool of Õismäe, but we'll be able to do that. We will definitely point the Minister at what he has not done and suggest what he should do. He's a young person, maybe he'll listen to someone else's smart talk. We hope that we can manage together with the Health Insurance Fund, the state budget and also the Minister of Finance Ligi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U173	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no more calls. The inquiry has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U174	Today's tenth item on the agenda is Marika Tuus-Lauli, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Peeter Võsa, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendijev, Priit Toobali, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Ester Tuiksoo and Mailis Repsi's request to the Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas on 15 November 2012 for an increase in visit and bed pay and a further postponement of the increase in unemployment benefit. I'm asking Marika Tuus-Laul to introduce her questioning on behalf of the inquisitors!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U175	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This inquiry was submitted to the then Minister for Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, on 15 November last year. But as we know, today we will receive an answer from the new Minister for Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. To date, the content of the inquiry has also changed, perhaps so, but I believe that the Minister will answer these questions as of today. We are talking about an increase in visit and bed pay and a reduction in unemployment benefit. If, at the time of the request for information, the visit fee for specialist medical care was another EUR 3.2, it has now been raised to EUR 5. The daily wage limit was EUR 1.6, but, as we all know, it is now much higher than EUR 2.5. We also remember that the state budget promised to increase the daily unemployment allowance rate from EUR 2.11 to EUR 4.68. In fact, unemployment benefit has been raised much less. At the time, the Minister suggested that people's participation should be increased in order to comply with the salaries of doctors and nurses. We were talking about the same visit and bed pay. At the same time, we remember that the Association of Physicians and the Professional Association of Health Care Professionals did not agree with this, because the advance agreement on the termination of the strike stated very precisely that the demands of doctors would be met from the money of the Health Insurance Fund and from other resources of the state budget. In their time, I remember, the doctors called the Minister's statement even to lie about it. We ask that we take a little look at the future as well and explain what will happen to the patient's own contribution and what direction the new minister thinks it is going to take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U176	Thank you. I'm asking for Secretary of State for Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U177	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. Question 1: 'Because it is explicitly stated in the advance agreement on the termination of the strike that the money to reduce the pay rise and the burden of doctors comes from the Health Insurance Fund and the state budget, why do you now say the opposite that the money to raise wages must be paid at the expense of increasing the participation of the unemployed and patients? ' The good questioner, Mrs Tuus-Laul, rightly pointed out that the situation has changed compared to the moment of questioning. I would really like to respond in today's context. It is good to say that the situation has changed in a favourable direction in that the collective agreement between health workers and the Estonian Hospitals Association has been signed. It was signed on 19 December, a little more than a month after the request was made. The collective agreement noted, inter alia, that the Government of the Republic was to establish as of 1 March. a Health Insurance Fund's health care list includes a wage component of at least EUR 7.6 per hour for doctors, EUR 4.2 per hour for nurses and EUR 2.4 per hour for carers. However, the parties also agreed that, as of 1 March, the minimum wage of a doctor would be EUR 8 per hour, the minimum wage of a nurse-in-law or health support specialist would be EUR 4.5 per hour, the minimum salary of an ambulance technician would be EUR 3.83 per hour, and the minimum wage of a care worker would be EUR 2.6 per hour. Why do I keep reading these numbers? The reason is very simple: the agreed minimum wage rates are significantly higher than those that are achievable on the basis of the Health Insurance Fund's list of health services. This agreement was also agreed upon. It is therefore perfectly understandable why there is a need for additional sources of revenue. Viktor Vassilyev referred to additional sources of income from the health sector outside the Health Insurance Fund during the negotiation round of the previous inquiry. That is exactly what has been done here: additional sources have been introduced, among other things. Question 2: 'Why is there a need for an increase in the daily visit and bed pay if the undistributed profits of the Health Insurance Fund have not been introduced? ' Here too, the situation has changed. The Riigikogu has already passed the Act on limits on visitation and bed pay. As I said before to my colleague Helmen Hunter, the full effect will be revealed in the coming months when we learn how many health care establishments and to what extent the visit or bed pay will actually increase. Only ceilings have been decided by the State. However, according to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, as I repeatedly referred to and explained in reply to previous questions, there are very clear limits to the introduction of the unallocated result of the Health Insurance Fund. There is also a reason why additional sources of revenue need to be taken into account. Once again, I stress over what I pointed out in replying to the previous question that, as was the case last year, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund is planned with a deficit this year. This is despite the fact that, thanks to the improved tax receipts, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund will increase significantly and exceed the largest budget available to date by 7%, which was in 2008. Last year was quite similar to 2008. Question 3: 'Why do you want to place a long-planned increase in patients' own participation on strikers? ' Since the same is asked in a slightly different wording, I am forced to repeat myself again. As the collective agreement agreed on a higher amount of hourly health care workers' fees than the Health Insurance Fund budget allows, additional resources will have to be found to implement the health care workers' wage agreement. Question 4: 'Why again are you deceiving people's expectations of receiving a higher unemployment benefit, which was planned to half the minimum wage? Since the government has postponed this once before and amended the law accordingly, it seems that raising the salaries of ambulance workers and medical residents is merely an artificial pretext. How does such capping affect the credibility of the Minister of Social Affairs? ' Here it is important to stress that the law was amended without any enforcement. It cannot be said that the situation already in force has been worsened. Despite the image that may have been left on this subject, the unemployment benefit increased significantly at the beginning of the year: from 65 euros to 101 euros. In 2012, the daily unemployment benefit rate was 22.6% of the minimum wage, now 35%. Once again, the need for change arose precisely because it was necessary to find a source of cover for EUR 3.5 million, which was necessary for the additional increase in the remuneration agreed as a result of the strike. I have already explained this in detail in the previous answers. Orally, you also asked more about your participation. I would like to point out that even if all health institutions fully raise the rates of visit and bed pay according to the law adopted by the Riigikogu, according to the current information, it seems that not all do so and it does not operate at 100%, the impact on patients' participation as a whole is about 1.2% of the total own contribution. Why so little, you can ask, and rightly so. As a result, visit and bedday fees are by far not the largest part of the patient's own contribution. The patient's own contribution consists of several components. One of the most important of these, of course, is the medicines. I am pleased to say that we also made quite a lot of important decisions on medicines in the Health Insurance Board. To sum up all the medicines, we have more than EUR 7 million, twice as much as we have in relation to this subject, which you directly understand. However, since you have asked orally about this, it may be appropriate to say that EUR 7 million will be added to the total amount for medicines. This is about 7% of the total cost of compensating for medicines, but this is, of course, the highest supplement for 50%-preferential medicines, where the extra money is 14% as a whole. This is probably a reason you know well, which is the disappearance of the upper limit. The patient's own involvement is a subject that naturally needs to be addressed. But the aggregate level of own contribution is influenced by a lot of things. It's definitely not just a visit fee and a bed payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U178	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U179	Although the increase in ownership is now not as huge as the participation in medicines and dental care at all, it is still quite important. How many patients don't go to a specialist right now in case of an emergency? I mean unemployed, many-child mothers, single mothers, etc. How much will the situation change?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U180	Thank you. I would point out that in the case of medicines, I was talking about extra money, not about getting more expensive. When it comes to medicines based on individual active substances, it has probably not been one week since I have been a minister for a little more than a month, if I have not yet signed down on a reduction in a drug's own contribution or a fall in the marginal price. So it is not at all that ownership can only increase in every aspect. There are also very clear and perceived reverse trends, especially as regards the additional amounts for the purchase of medicines in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund for the following year. When you ask what the availability of services will be, I believe that when you adopted this law, you thoroughly analysed it in the Riigikogu. No one misses a doctor because of the increase in visitation or bedtime fees. All the more so since, in primary care, the Social Affairs Committee decided not to impose a visit fee and family medical care will continue to be available to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U181	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U182	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Healthcare is becoming increasingly expensive because medicine is becoming more technological. It is known that at present, the healthcare appreciation component of the Health Insurance Fund's budget has been zeroed out. The total budget is 7% higher, but the increase in services has not been taken into account at all in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. At the same time, the Health Insurance Fund is working with a so-called minus; the budget deficit is starting to increase from year to year. Given that the population is also ageing, the number of social tax payers is starting to decrease, but the number of consumers of healthcare services is beginning to increase, it is clear that more money needs to be found somewhere. Economic growth, it's like the kingdom of heaven, we don't know if it's coming or not. But do you personally have any kind of vision to get more healthcare money from?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U183	Thank you. In the case of different enquiries, or even different heirs, questions are at all odds with each other. You are complaining that alternative sources are also being used to finance healthcare costs. At the same time, when you asked the oral question, you said that this was a very important objective and that this must be done. Yes, of course, as a minister, I intend to be good at ensuring that healthcare is financed. But at the same time, we cannot create illusions. During the negotiations on the previous inquiry, you said that money should simply be taken from the state budget. We cannot create any illusions that there is an empty, naked place in the state budget where you can take additional funding indefinitely. As soon as tax receipts occur, so many areas immediately claim this money. It is up to me, as Minister of Social Affairs, to justify why the health sector must be a part of growth, but not just one. Family policy also needs money, and additional social benefits are also needed. Finding the optimism in the budget is not just my job and the government's job, but it is the joint task of all of us. That is the greater nature of politics in order to strike a balance. If there are good proposals and they are covered, I am ready to discuss them both in the Health Insurance Board and in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U184	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Minister Taavi Rõivas. Let's open the negotiations. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U185	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, If you look back, you may feel that our government can even benefit from a strike by doctors and nurses. I recall that, in fact, several years ago, it was quietly said that we should still increase the visit fee. They didn't dare come up with it, but now they found a reason to rely on it. Let's just remember a little bit about history. The World Health Organisation carried out a very extensive survey on Estonia in 2009 and found that if funding does not improve, Estonian health care will collapse in a few years' time: queues will increase, people will not get to the doctor and the quality of services will also deteriorate. Hanno Pevkur did not want to recall or talk much about this study. But what was brought out there? On the one hand, your government only wants to rely on social tax in healthcare, that 13%. I remember that, under no circumstances was this study recommended to increase people's own participation, which we really do have very high levels compared to other countries in Europe. For example, dental care was specifically mentioned, which many people cannot afford at all. It was brought out that even the poorer ones couldn't buy the people. We know that long ago, the richest fifth in Estonia spends 20 times more money on dental care than the poorest fifth, who hardly spends on it. The study also pointed out that rehabilitation and care needs to be made more accessible to a price-sensitive patient, as well as, of course, prescription medicines for pensioners (emphasised separately) and poorer households. I would remind you that the share of prescription medicines in Estonia is still close to 40%, bigger than us in Denmark, much smaller everywhere else. When we're talking about medicine, I think the Ministry should definitely better make price agreements and take more people on this job. If you believe in the press, there's a person working on it right now. Two seats are provided, one space is empty. But let's look at Europe, there's a whole lot more of them. What did our government do after this WHO study? It was a cut. In healthcare, huge cuts were made, limits were reduced, treatment queues were extended, care treatment was increased, as you remember, own participation, the person started to pay more than 100 kroons per day (that was the time of the crown), sickness benefits were reduced, drug VAT was increased, dental benefits were abolished, etc. Not only are we looking at what is being done now that life is starting to get better, it turns out that once the doctors strike what we are talking about today, the visit and bed pay were increased again and the rate of unemployment benefit has been lowered. We remember how the Employment Contracts Act was passed. It was then one of the main agreements that unemployment benefit would be increased to half of the minimum wage. But the following year, they retreated. Now they promised to keep that promise, but that money was reduced again. So there's been a lot of cheating around here. As the Medical Association has said, they were allowed to take money elsewhere, but eventually it was taken from the patient's pocket. All we see now is that right-wing governments have constantly increased people's own participation and taken money out of people's pockets, forgetting that, in fact, 13% of social tax is what is paid from the employees' payroll. Then why are we paying double? But since they don't want to raise the tax, it's completely quiet, and, let's say, like a thief, money is taken out of the patient's pocket and they say no to the tax. If we look to Europe, apart from tax money...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U186	... the state places other resources in health care with substantial money. I do not currently have data on exactly how it is in other countries, but these percentages are significantly higher than in Estonia, where it is only 6 to 7%. We should catch up with the others sometime. Think about what's going on in PERH, North Estonia Regional Hospital. It's where people start to take money selectively, even when they go to an ear-nose-throat doctor. I don't know who makes these choices, I'm afraid there won't be any choice. Actually, it's been quietly planned for a long time. It's not random, because the LOR doctor really has the longest queues, just like the ophthalmologist. A lot of LOR doctors have gone abroad, they're not really here anymore. Those who work here are almost all private doctors. Now they want to sneak into making the LOR-doctor service pay for people. PERH is a preliminary example here, but the direction is probably taken. I am afraid, however, that if people's own contribution to health care continues to grow gradually and steadily, medical care will become inaccessible to a very large number of people, in fact it has long since changed. I fear that, unfortunately, in the future, this trend will continue that poorer people will no longer be able to see a doctor. But we still have a new minister and we hope that perhaps this problem will be dealt with and more thought will be given to the patient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U187	Thank you. The Minister wishes to participate in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U188	Would you like more time? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U189	Good heirs! For the sake of accuracy, we need to talk about facts rather than estimates from this remote control. There were a lot of assessments in the previous speech that should be rejected on the basis of facts. It was claimed that the participation was constantly increasing, that there have been frequent increases in visitation and bed pay, etc. There were more of them than I could remember. Good fellows! I would like to discuss these matters very seriously with you. I certainly wish this discussion were well argued. Therefore, I have a sincere request that we speak on the basis of facts, so this discussion will also help, so that things can get better in Estonian health care. Just one more fact. The average Estonian household spends 3.65% of its income on health care. As I said, assuming that in a health care facility where the patients are in this household, the amount of visit and bed pay allowed by law will increase the cost of these people by 1.2%, i.e. if their income is taken into account, an additional 0.046% will have to be added. Let's put these things in context. If we look by quintiles, as you have pointed out, households in these quintiles, who spend the most on health care, i.e. the second and third income quintiles, spend respectively 4.34% and 4.3% of the family's income. Let these figures also be a matter of thought. I think that when it comes to access to health services and the patient's own participation, these answers are more of a non-visit and bed pay, which has not been raised for about ten years. As you well know, if they had been indexed every year according to the law, as it says, we would now be in the same situation as the law you adopted here at the end of last year. True, this took place before I became a minister, but the Republic of Estonia is consistent. I think that the decision that was made at the time is, in itself, a logical introduction to the healthcare sector. In this sense, it is somewhat in line with what Mr Vassilyev has repeatedly pointed out. We will also remember this aspect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U190	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation. A procedural question or a reply? Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U191	Got it. Now it is also specified. I will close the negotiations and close the debate on this point. Thank you very much to the Minister. The agenda is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U192	Thank you. I have a line that when I was talking about bedtime pay, I was talking about the bedtime pay for care. The minister was talking about a general bed-day fee here, but I was talking about what was raised when it was a difficult time. That was it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U193	After hitting the hammer, it is possible to register for an appearance in a free microphone. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U194	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I've rarely used the possibilities of a free microphone, but today I got more educational information, so I decided to come to the remote. In particular, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications stated to me whether, suddenly, it would not be wise to reduce his workload and, once again, to divide the Ministry of Economic Affairs and perhaps, for example, the Ministry of Communications, that he could do his job brilliantly and that there were no problems. Then I began to think that lifelong learning was vital. I started thinking about things I don't understand in the Department of Economic Affairs without looking for tools. For example, I was reminded by the many years of the delusion at the Port of Tallinn that the shortest route of Chinese containers to Russia was through the Port of Tallinn, which seemed to me to be like a red cap fairy tale. The problems in the construction of quay 17, which the National Audit Office drew attention to, remained unanswered, but the problems were considerable there. If a private railway company receives an annual profit of 30 million euros, Estonian Railway will reduce its employees by about 150, as capacity has decreased. Recently, it turned out that the entire intersection of Väo was not built because the Road Administration was designing according to the fuel company's instructions. I don't want to talk about Estonian Air anymore because God's sun goes down before I count all these troubles. I don't think there's any point in talking about Eesti Energia anymore. We all know that stock market analysts say we're going to pay 7% more for electricity than the Finns. At the same time, analysts say that the volume of energy production in Estonia is decreasing because we no longer have anywhere to produce because the electricity we produce tends to be too much more expensive than electricity from other producers and therefore we have nowhere to sell it. Rather, in this trading area, we are beginning to pry up the price of the electricity exchange, which is not very possible because the free market generally loves to regulate itself. Then I remember EAS, where the devil knows what has happened, and entrepreneurs have to start paying back the money they paid out wrong. However, one of the most serious problems is that a member of the Council received a grant of more than EUR 700000. As far as I know, dealings with surrounding people in Estonia have been banned all along. Then I also remembered that I am an Estonian citizen and a state, that is I, a citizen. We have chosen a Parliament that is like the Council, and then we have appointed a government from Parliament, which should be the board of this lovely country of mine. A member of the government is playing in some of my subsidiaries, because the state, it is I who am the general meeting, and in fact, this function cannot actually function at all, perhaps it does not understand what is actually happening in the companies that run it as a general meeting. But he comes and tells me that I don't understand anything, he's brilliant at doing his job, he's got no problems at all. Then I guess I don't understand anything anymore. On Monday night, however, nothing to understand is quite harmful to your health. Because now I'm going home and I can't sleep. If I had done so badly with a dozen things I'd read here, I don't think anyone would spare me. Worse, if I had left that money, as they say, unearned or misexploited, for example, my wife didn't know. I think I'd have a really big problem. But this money, the Minister of Economic Affairs that I've read here, has been spent without the knowledge of the people, but with the knowledge of the people. I think, Minister for Economic Affairs, that if you really don't have a problem and you can do your job so well, everything that I've read here will mean to continue in another place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-14_U195	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no more calls. Ladies and gentlemen, the first day of our new session is closed. I wish everyone a nice evening. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 19.26 p.m.
