ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the 8th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, are there any drafts or inquiries to be made? No drafts or requests for information are recommended. Messages. Wednesday, March 20th, s. The following members of the Government will take part in Question Time: Minister for Defence Urmas Reinsalu Prime Minister, Minister for the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Minister for the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has registered a member of the Social Democratic Party of Tiit Tammsaare and has confirmed his taking up the position of member of the Economic Commission. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded enquiries from members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur and Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu have been registered, 15 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the External Action Service Act and the Civil Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Any requests for negotiation? There are no negotiating requests. Since draft 366 needs to be adopted as a law on the proposal of the commission of directors, we will proceed to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Foreign Service Act and the Public Service Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 366. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U3	Today's second item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Code of Civil Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present a speech chair to Igor Gräzini, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U4	Madam Vice-Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft amendment to the Law of Obligations Act is the second time before you, and it all comes down to two or three fundamental points here. The idea of the law is to make life harder for the debtor, to force the debtor to fulfil his obligations towards the creditor with greater care and not to allow the debt to continue for too long. The main changes are as follows: A 60-day payment period shall be established, whereby the contract provides that no more than that payment period may be allowed. The creditor shall be liable for costs of EUR 40 so that he can bring an action and process the documents and from the point of view of the goods, the service...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U5	Excuse me for a second, waitress! Ladies and gentlemen, the spring summer is too big in the hall. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U6	But so beautiful! The debtor shall be subject to a 30-day payment period from the receipt of the goods, services or other goods, unless expressly agreed otherwise and unless this is grossly unfair to the creditor in the circumstances. So the main thing is these three things: the 60- and 30-day time limit for payment and EUR 40 for legal expenses. The draft was examined by the Commission on 11 March and decided unanimously to put it on the plenary agenda today, to propose that the second reading be terminated and to send it to third reading when the second reading is completed by 20 March. In that case, the third reading would be tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U7	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments to the draft have been received. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of Bill 372. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U8	The third item is the second reading of § 199 of the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of Marika Tuus-Laul, member of the Chair of the Legal Affairs Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed the draft law supplementing § 199 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 376 on Monday 11 March. a. All members of the Committee on Legal Affairs took part in the debate and was chaired by Marko Pomerants. Mr Erkki Koort, Deputy Chancellor of Internal Security Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, was also present. No amendments to the draft 376 were submitted to the Committee on Legal Affairs. It was decided, by consensus, to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session today, 19 March 2013 and to propose that the second reading be closed. When the second reading is completed, it is proposed that the draft be sent to the third reading by 27 March. This decision was also consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U10	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Marika Tuus-Laul. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments to this draft law have been received either. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 376. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U11	We are going to the fourth item on today's agenda, which is the first reading of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and the draft law amending the related laws 357. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! Thank you for the opportunity to present draft Social Democrats 357, in other words the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and related laws. The development of the bill was due to the need for child support and family support based on needs to reach the children of the poorest families. The Social Democrats have already submitted a draft to the Riigikogu procedure for the fifth time, in order to keep separate income support and child support, so that those most in need do not lose income support because of the rather symbolic child allowance. By the way, not only sociers but also sane municipalities, such as Tartu, have proposed to exclude all family benefits from the calculation of income support. The draft therefore aims to put an end to the situation where one category of people is essentially deprived of child benefit, and precisely those who need it most, namely, applicants for income support. In this case, child benefit is taken into account as an income in need, which means that so little income support is received by a person. The first member of the family receiving income support must cope with EUR 76.70, each subsequent family member EUR 61.36 per month, which must be sufficient to meet the immediate needs of food, clothing, footwear and other goods and services. The second plus is the fact that it extends the circle of need-based family benefits to families whose income exceeds the limit of relative poverty, but who, after paying their housing costs, retains an amount below the level of subsistence. The draft aims to alleviate the growing inequalities and conflicting appreciation that further divides society. In 2005, the amendment to the Social Welfare Act entered into force, resulting in monthly child allowances under the State Family Benefits Act being taken into account as income when determining income support. The change at the time was accompanied by an increase in income support from 500 kroons to 750 kroons, which was meant to be a lever for a person to find a job and work more useful than living out of grants. Then, of course, the benefits paid to families with many children were discarded only for those in desperate need of help to cope. But now we are in a completely different situation, our income support limit has fallen behind in time and is far too small to survive as an emergency and does not meet the requirements of the Social Charter. The latest data from Statistics Estonia (from 2011 onwards) take into account the one-member household's minimum livelihood, i.e. the limit of absolute poverty of 186.26 euros, 85.10 of which will be used for food. Estonian family benefits are universal grants and they are entitled to both wealthy and poor families. Raising children will inevitably entail costs for all families, a small part of which the state has taken over. At present, the state supports families with children who already manage themselves. Families who have lost their job or whose salary is so low that they are entitled to income support will receive less income support by the child benefit. As a result, the child benefit will not reach the families most in need. Child benefit for families with one or two children is currently €19.18 per child per month, and this is not a serious lever that would give social benefits to families with children. Although it has lost at least half of its purchasing power compared to 2004, the government union has the will and, until then, the power to freeze it to a small part of our children. Almost 94% of children grow up in single- or two-child families. While the population is shrinking, the birth rate is falling despite the fact that the number of women of childbearing age is still at the top, such shortsightedness makes this call for advice. It is therefore a tragedy that the current universal child benefit is included in the family's income when it comes to granting income support and, of course, how low the limit of relative poverty has been set. This is currently EUR 280 per person per month, while the coefficient for a child under 14 in this formula is only 0.3. For example, a mother working on a rather low salary and raising one or two children alone may simply lose needs-based child support. The creation of needs-based family support was intended, according to the draft explanatory memorandum, to provide more support to those who actually need more help and who have more children. Unfortunately, the law adopted does not guarantee that needs-based family support can be reached by families living in the highest poverty. And this change is a major step in the reform of child benefits! Take, for example, the mother who raises two children under 14 years of age working on a minimum wage, who receives less than 300 euros in net pay, plus 38,36 euros in child benefit and 150 euros in child support. The monthly income here is around 500 euros per month. After deduction of the permanent expenses of the dwelling, the family will receive less than 190 euros per month, so they will receive income support during the winter months. As such a family has a poverty threshold of EUR 448, they lose needs-based family support. Such examples could be more and more. The draft will put an end to the inclusion of child benefit in the income of the family and ensure that the child benefit reaches each family, as well as extend the range of need-based family benefits to families receiving child benefit, where children receiving child benefit will grow. The Government's argument on the same draft proposed earlier was that granting additional money could lead to additional risks of coping and demotivating people to look for or earn their income, but the aim is above all to motivate them to seek work and to avoid a situation where living from grants is more beneficial when increasing subsidies or changing their organisation. This statement is not correct. Let us not forget the purpose of the National Family Benefits Act. The purpose of the State Family Benefits Act is to ensure that families with children receive partial reimbursement of the costs of caring for, raising and studying their children. Honourable ambassadors! Now, in a few words, the cost of implementing the law and the expected revenue. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, during the first 11 months of 2012, an average of 3475 applications for household income support with children were granted per month. If child benefit is not included in income support, the cost of income support will increase to EUR 145000 per month. As this part of the draft is planned to enter into force on 1 April, an additional EUR 1.309 million would be needed when the draft law enters into force in 2013. Another calculation. In the Committee on Social Affairs, according to the Ministry of Social Affairs, in January and February 2013 there were 40 families with children receiving income support (museum, 48% of which were single-child families) who would not be entitled to need-based family benefit according to the legislative amendment coming into force on 1 July. We also did a little calculation here. The need-based family allowance for children in households receiving income support increases the cost of the need-based family allowance during the heating period by an average of EUR 335 per month. Such households outside the heating period would normally not qualify for income support. Thus, if the bill came into force as a second party law in 2013, an additional EUR 1350 would be needed to pay family allowances. The Social Democrats are of the opinion that the part of the Act, the content of which is the achievement of needs-based family support for all children, should enter into force in general terms, in other words, within 10 days of publication in the Official Journal of the State, and the part of the Act relating to separate income support and child support, would enter into force on 1 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U13	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Heljo Pikhof! I would like a co-report from Rein Aidma, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the content of the draft law 357 on Tuesday 12 March. a. Having heard the author's representative, Heljo Pikhofi, I will not repeat what we have already heard from this panel today, the debate was continued with the presence of the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who presented the position of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic on this bill. The position drawn up by the Ministry of Social Affairs recalled that income support is a means of alleviating poverty, which is implemented as a so-called last measure when a person is unable to provide adequate means of subsistence to the family by other means replacing work or income. The Government Union programme also provides that the principle of more support for those who really need help and those who have more children must continue to apply to the payment of family allowances. According to § 3 of the Social Welfare Act, one of the general principles of social welfare is to promote the livelihood of a person and family. It is also important that the person's responsibility for himself and his or her family members' livelihoods is also important. Thus, the primary objective is to motivate people to seek employment in order to avoid situations where living out of benefits can become more useful than working. As regards the proposal to grant needs-based family support to all recipients of income support, the review carried out in the Ministry at the beginning of this year revealed that, in January, there would have been 23 families among beneficiaries of income support, which had a figure of 3700, to which this draft would be extended. In February, 3900 households with children received income support, including 23 families, i.e. 0.6% of all recipients of income support. The representative of the Ministry also pointed out that the draft provides support for one month, but that needs-based family support is currently provided for three months. No exceptions or changes are planned here. Obviously, the issue of the need-based payment of family allowances is indeed important, which is why a proposal to change or supplement this is coming from the Ministry. However, since this part of the draft proposal under discussion remains with the entire draft law proposal, the whole draft Social Affairs Committee did not support it. We are waiting for the Ministry to come forward with a proposal on the need-based payment of family benefits for families that had already been in place for two months 23. Later, of course, this number may change. At the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs on 12 March, it was decided, by consensus, to put the draft law on the agenda of 357 plenary sessions, to propose that the draft be rejected in the large hall by 5 members of the Commission, against 4 and appoint a rapporteur from the Commission here. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U15	Thank you. Let's get to the questions and answers. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U16	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Of course, income support is the last resort that a person goes to ask for when he or she is in real trouble. How do you explain that these children of the poorest families have to cope with 61 euros and do not see child support? Do you not think that if the minimum food basket is EUR 81, these children will obviously be harmed, left in poverty? Unfortunately, our government's family policy favors it, as I can see.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U17	Thank you. Neither 100% of all cases can be covered at national level for all those in need. First of all, I would like to remind you that the family itself must also take care of increasing their incomes. Above all, family incomes can naturally grow by creating new jobs, and this can also be supported by the state. On the other hand, for those who are temporarily in trouble for many other reasons, it is a lack of professional skills or any kind of support that can support families in need. Now, once again, the 23 families that the Ministry was able to identify within two months of this year will be dealt with and I hope that there will also be a response to the proposal for the second part of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U18	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U19	Good co-rapporteur! When we dealt with this "need-to-need" child benefit, we have already pointed out that such a situation would arise. The fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Affairs Committee have now also understood this is very welcome. I understand you don't just like the person who initiated the bill. That's half the law. The other side of the law is to resolve the issue of family allowances and income support, and here I recall that the first reading of this draft has been completed, it is on the Commission's shelf. How, then, that the first reading of half of the draft has already been completed, but on the other half, although the idea is very correct, did the Commission conclude that the draft should be rejected at first reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U20	Thank you. I have already pointed out that, as a whole, this draft law is not really applicable, given the expenditure not planned for this year's budget. The second half of the draft, which is ten times lower in size, is in principle applicable, but before the Ministry has to carry out a precise substantive analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U21	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Co-Rapporteur, In the interest of the Steinogram, it would be right to specify the data provided by the Commission on January 23 families, in February 23 families, and in total 40 households. 23 families in one month and 23 families in another month, but these figures can change every month. This means that in two months there will be 40 households in the number of children in these families to say the Ministry did not know exactly how to deal with this situation. That's a two-month example. Why do you think that the other half that the Ministry is going to solve could not be dealt with by the Commission, too, so that the solution should be done sooner? The Social Democrats have offered us an opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U23	Thank you. When reading the report of the Commission's sitting, I can make it clear that there are six overlapping households among their families, which were 23 in January and February. That's what it says. And this still means that an analysis which the Commission does not have the competence to carry out with its officials is required to take into account precisely the support provided to these families. This competence is limited to the Ministry. Let's wait for their exact analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U24	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U25	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Speaking of people looking for work and taking care of their own income, as I said in my report, many parents work on a minimum wage. If a woman raises two children alone and receives a small amount of maintenance allowance, she will be forced to ask for income support during the winter months. It's not about laziness, it's just about pay. Man works full-time, but lives in labor poverty. Please explain in more detail! If a person who raises children goes to work and receives a minimum wage, what is the justification for not receiving child support to take him out of the labour market?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U26	Thank you for your question. I don't have any statistics available on how many of those families in distress have a minimum wage. We'll have to look into that. But family benefits are actually part of the income that families with children can use. I'm not sure, but maybe these minimum wage recipients could apply for a much higher pay position, raise their professional level, leading to an increase in the income of their families. When we talk about the family's concerns about how to come out with them, it is also the family's own responsibility, not that the state should create all the conditions and also pay for it if the level of education of the family members or, for example, professional preparation is not enough. This is, in any case, a sign that a person himself must also make an effort to qualify so that his work is rewarded with a salary that is sufficiently high.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U27	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U28	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You spoke of the sources and resources of cover. I would like to clarify how much resources are needed to realise this proposal that we are currently dealing with. Of course, these are very difficult to find from the current budget, but you said that these sources could be reviewed and increased in the budget for the coming year. Has the Ministry made these calculations, and what amount are we talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U29	Thank you for your question. The cost of the first part of the bill currently under discussion would have been EUR 1.3 million in 2013. As regards the need-based payment of family benefits within it, this would represent an additional cost of EUR 171000 in 2013. Once again, this last one is being processed by the Ministry. I hope that we will get the data from there as soon as possible, and on the basis of this part of the draft it will then be possible to alleviate the situation of their families.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U30	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U31	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Co-Rapporteur, When you play with numbers, it's like there's only six and then 46 and then 40. Maybe you're so pretty and tell me how many families, households, have been missing this support in two months? How big is this number, a simple mathematical operation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U32	Thank you for your question. I can repeat what we have learned from ministerial officials who have the most accurate reviews: 23 families in January and 23 families in February.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U33	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U34	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm gonna listen to the bill here, and I'm gonna remember this morning's Radio News. A lot of Debelakk was making such a gallows joke that the number of unemployed people in Estonia is constantly decreasing in connection with the continuing colds, and it should, like, make the government happy. It seems to me that the coalition policy is a little bit that, if there are too few people, it is as if they do not have to apply the law. Did you have any mention of how many families or how many children should be caught between the cogs so that our bill could be supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U35	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, we did not deal with the 'Leave News' in the Commission, and we did not seek an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-19_U36	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft 357 at first reading. We must vote on this proposal. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and the related laws 357 at first reading, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 37, no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Bill 357 has fallen out of the proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted. I wish everyone a beautiful day! See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 10.39 a.m.
